ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:03:47]] There were 400 national deputies registered in the session room. But the presence of flags is clearly greater. The evening session shall be declared open. Dear colleagues, as you and I have agreed that we will return once again to the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Disease, which has caused the loss of work. These bills are, more faithfully, two bills under the headings 6024 and 6026, we have discussed with you before lunch, bills sponsored by 6024 by the Cabinet of Ministers, reported to him by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and a bill under number 6026, the author, our colleague, the National Deputy of Onischuk. We didn't have enough votes to determine the fate of these bills. And we agreed to come back after their fate was determined after lunch. I see they're willing to say a few words. Please write it down for reasons. Three minutes. Yes, I'd like you to take a look at the board. Carmazine, behind him, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u2	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, now under the walls of the Supreme Council is our Ukrainian youth, who are suitable, suitable, suitable. It now requires a broadcast, as we always do. I'm asking you, Adam Ivanovich, to order a broadcast. They're chanting the normal slogans, "We're together, we're not gonna get over us!" Today, this slogan is scandalizing the entire Ukrainian people in connection with the victory of Victor Yushchenka, whom they want to steal. So I'm asking you to give instructions to turn the microphone on the area now, because we've always done that, and I'm asking you not to make an exception and now out of this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u3	Please, Stoyan. After him, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u4	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. We, I mean, the unions don't just go into a federation that doesn't go in, we've discussed this bill, I mean government, it's a bill that greatly improves the situation of those people who have been crippled by production. And we ask you to reject all the different political motives and support the bill that the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing. This is a consistent version of the Cabinet of Ministers, employers, trade unions. Please vote and support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u5	Please, Mironenko. After him, Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u6	Respectable People's Deputies. The Communist faction asks everyone to support the bill because it meets the aspirations of those who are in trouble. Therefore, please vote on all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u7	Please, Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Kendeur.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u9	Kendzior microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u10	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Our Ukraine, Yushchenka faction. Adam Ivanovich, I am also joining Karmazin’s request for a broadcast. Young people want to say that they do not want to live, they do not want to have the prospect of living in the Janukovich area. Because all we saw at the first stage of the election of the President of Ukraine was preparations for a general Ukrainian zone where Yanukovic had twice been in and not once had to be in, but because of his already certain position in society, unfortunately, he had not been there. So young people are going to hear what's going on in the Supreme Council and, by the way, young people are going to demand that these doves come out today, which have blue flags in the session hall, that's the faction of "Regions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u11	Please, Sulkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! There is such a request and a wish. This is the previous speaker, they want to scandalize, shout. Please let the people down - let them go out there and yell with them. And I have a request: Don't let Adam Ivanovich, these politicians, who are just yelling and seeing themselves in their sleep for 13 years in power. But they will never come to power, for the people of Ukraine will never choose them! This is the first time. Secondly, listen, Adam Ivanovich, what vulgar words they now speak to me. Never did Mr. Yanukovich disgrace them or say a bad word. But they reproach their leader throughout the world, not only in Ukraine. So I'm against Adam Ivanovich, and I'm asking you not to include any of this politics, but to work in the agenda of the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down! No one's politicizing. I really wouldn't want to be politicized. We'll keep working. In terms of including the broadcast, we're going to define. There's one thing I'd like to ask you, Yuri Anatolyovich. If they're chanting slogans, why do they have a broadcast? They won't hear. And because of Candiser's broadcast, he says to hear what they're saying. We're not going to hear what they're saying on the air either. But the problem is that those who meet here, what's going on in the Supreme Council, there's no one, because we're being broadcast directly by radio and television right now. I think let's get a broadcast out on the street, let's get a broadcast to the area, there's no problem. So, dear colleagues, we're going to talk about the law, and we're going to talk about the fish money again. So I'm going to put it to a vote, please prepare. Please tell the Minister before the vote. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You know, I'll take the kind position you vote for, but I'd like a little clarification. The point is that this law applies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers, but the creator of this law is a working group on a tripartite basis where representatives have entered on the parity principles of government, employers and professional associations. In addition, it is a law that improves the situation today of more than 300,000 disabled persons. I would ask that it be not as in the proverb that along with the water the child will splash and still vote, adopt this law as a basis, and after the first reading it becomes the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and it can still be perfected indefinitely. I ask you to support and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's support, especially, how generous Kabmin is: in a minister's person he gives us some property to the Supreme Council. This must be accepted and supported. I am voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on mandatory public social insurance against industrial accidents and occupational diseases that have caused the loss of work, registration number 6024. Please vote. [[16:12:39]] For 204 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 2, "Regions of Ukraine" - 55, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 12, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 14, SPO - 14, Block Timoshenko - 0, "Soyuz" - 12, "One Ukraine" - 14, "Centre - 9, industrialists, entrepreneurs and NDP - 10, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 5. Please, Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u16	Alexander Stoyan, trade unions. Dear colleagues, those in the hall, and those in the square! It was about the disabled, about the cripple, about those who worked in the mine, about the production, that became crippled to protect them financially. And today our Ukraine has zeroed. Here's the policy and the real deal! Once again, I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u17	Well, "Our Ukraine," to be exact, not zero, but two votes. Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u18	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, we have called on three times for support of this badly needed bill. But I want to turn around again. Well, let's let the MPs come into the hall, where there's an interview on the clock, and there's no one to vote in the hall. Especially with two factions, I'm not going to call them ethically, who don't participate at all, by the majority in the vote. Let's still support this bill, it's absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u19	Vote. It is on the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On mandatory public social insurance against industrial accidents and occupational diseases that have caused loss of employment. Registration number 6024. Please vote. [[16:15:20.]] For 216 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 61, Communists - 59, Social Democrats - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 1, Union - 12, only Ukraine - 13, Center - 15, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 13, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 3. I am voting second on adoption on the basis of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Work. Project Registration Number 6026, by Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:16:28]] For-75 Not accepted. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 2, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, Communists, Social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 16, Socialists - 2, Block Timoshenko - 13, Union - 15, only Ukraine - 4, Center - 12, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 1. There's a proposal that, since the first bill has won 216 votes, it should be re-readed. No objections? Then I'm voting for re-reading draft law number 6024. Please vote. [[16:17:32]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 9, "Regions of Ukraine" - 60, Communists - 58, Social Democrats - 27, Labour Ukraine - 0, Agrarian Party - 20, Socialists - 16, Block Timoshenko - 14, Union - 15, only Ukraine - 12, Center - 14, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 10, Deminitiates - 0, Postfaction - 3. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare is being considered, registration number 5171. [[on the transfer of objects]] First Deputy Minister of Health Lapushenko Olga Vasilovna reports. Prepare Loboda from the committee. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provides a legislative initiative for the Supreme Council to review the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare. The Act provides for the activities of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service in the State Health and Health Administration in connection with the restructuring of the latter in the State Administration, as a result of the need to organize the activities of the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Service in the Administration of Affairs. The changes envisaged in the draft law define the mandate of the State Health and Epidemiology Service, ensuring its functioning as the only link of the State Health and Epidemiology Service system in Ukraine. The implementation of the bill does not require funding from the State budget and additional material and other expenses. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u21	Thank you, Olga Vasilovna. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood of Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The changes proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to the current law are due to the transfer of state-owned health care and health care facilities to the State Department of Public Administration, which forms a specialized medical unit. In doing so, the authority and functions of the institutions, its public health authorities, remain unchanged, i.e. the proposed changes are of a terminal nature and have not raised any objections in the Committee’s deliberations. The conclusion of the main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is also positive for the Bill. The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood recommended that the Supreme Council adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u23	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss, or is it understandable? Those who sign up do not insist. Okay, thanks. Melniczuk, please. Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u24	Mikhailo Melniczuk, Faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Cherniewetska District The All-Ukrainian Association of Land and Property Owners. The faction of the Socialist Party has been determined by supporting this bill, and we're going to vote on it as a basis, but for that reason, I do have some observations. I understand that the Dusia has taken everything today and it takes away all the facilities, all the health complexes, everything. I have this question: Besides the fact that they still have a desire to put order there. Let's take the Rabbit, the Crystal Palace, the worse sanatorium there, in the Rabbit there's no place for the sick and so on. Let's take the same Morshin. Practically half of the sanatoriums are accepted. Who's the host today? As far as I know, there are even owners who have their own sanatoriums. So I'd like to ask this question: where will the average citizen, the Ukrainian, be treated? For whom does the Spirit care for officials, and for the people of Ukraine, who will care for them? Space travel prices, the union can't provide the necessary travel, we'll talk about the benefits of the same Ukrainian members of the trade union. I'm not talking about the village today. Why? Because they're all forgotten. I'd like to ask. Once, a mechanic or an animal farm worker could have received a trip at the end of the year or in winter and had to go to medical treatment. Who are taking care of these people today? Who provides them with medical treatment? It's nothing. It's all forgotten. From the unions, we'll talk, the high-ranking officials just took care of themselves, forgetting about people that it was their work that created all of this today's and sanatoriums, all of it. We've forgotten about that. So I would like to call on the heads of the trade unions to come back face to face with these people, to the category of peasants. And for that reason, Adam Ivanovich, I'm calling you, you're on the phone, you're out of gas for sale, you're out of 3 bracelets. Late crop harvesting was suspended, and sowing in the countryside stalled. Other agrotechnical measures in the countryside have stalled. Everyone's in the election. Who's going to do the country anyway? On this point, I would like to give a proper commission to our committee to sort out this situation so that the peasants will be able to finish the gathering, ornate and other agrotechnical activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u25	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, with all due respect to you, I can't carry out your commission, because I don't sell any diesel, I don't have my own gastropods. So, unfortunately, I can't help you. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u26	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what it takes to make these changes, whether it's necessary or not. According to article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare, the State Health Service system is the central authority of the executive body in the field of health care, the institution and institution of the national health and epidemiological service of the central health authority and the relevant institutions, institutions, parts and units of the central authority in the field of defence, internal affairs, the protection of the state border for the enforcement of penalties, the State Security Service and the State Health Administration. It is now proposed in connection with the subordination of its facilities to the State Administration for the transfer of this and also to the State Administration. I'm asking, what do we have to change the status quo first, and then give these deputies approval, or maybe we should do the opposite: introduce a draft government law, if there was any confidence in the government's administration? I have all the respect for sanitation, the Ministry of Health. But I am sure that in today’s State Administration, there are many criminal cases to be dealt with. This is what we've discovered right now when we're looking at the House of Accounts, which is the fact that we're selling a sanatorium, and now I'm selling all of Kiev's property on an uncomputed basis. We need to break the criminal case. And you're going to have to do disinfection after those officials are there. And it's going to have to be disinfected because it's on the Central Electoral Commission. Because instead, there were 84,000 more votes in Ukraine than there were in Ukraine as a whole. So you probably have to do some sort of jar somewhere in the bank, somewhere else, a piece of paper that goes for the use of ballot papers. How did the Crimea plus 18,000 vote? It's clear which way. There were few in the Donetsk region, and they also voted 28,000 more. Also in the Dnipropetrov region. So I think we need to have serious disinfections right now before the new authorities come. Adam Ivanovich, please. Adam Ivanovich, I certainly don't support this bill. I'm sure he won't get most of it today. The socialists will understand that it was they who initiated questions about the DUS in the Constitutional Court, and now they'll be subordinated to some of the organs, and they'll realize that they won't vote for it. And the government majority, we know its forces, it's not able to pass any law today, so this law will not be adopted, I'm convinced, but I'm asking you to turn on the broadcast for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u27	The broadcast is coming, Yuri Anatoliyovich, don't worry. Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u28	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the bill introduced by the government of ministers, capitalists is very clear because governments are changing, and the Dusia remains that huge machine of government, including us with you, needs to be treated and healed, and so on. That's why the changes proposed by the government by the Ministry of Health and supported our colleagues from the relevant profiling committee are needed by any government. Let us vote on this bill and conclude this discussion. The rest of the time I have, I just want to use it to say, look, there's a soul now. Who came for this soul? A young man came from an oil pipeline. They used to work a little while there, but you can't build up or scrape a piece of paper that's needed to do some very important government work. Let's go to this Dusu. Please, there is one Prime Minister today, there is one Dusia, and there is one President. Tomorrow there may be another president and another prime minister, but the same spirit will be. And that's why I want to look at those oranges that are so fiercely attacking this soul. I'm sorry, I'm not defending this, but can you tell me right now what kind of predator you want to put on this soul? Be honest and consistent to the end. You want to drop one predator and plant one of your own so that you can be angry and eat just as they eat at the soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u29	Yes, the discussion is over. Let's get organized. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, the more I remind you that the bill is completely technical. It's not the organ that did this, it's now called something else. Well, it's legal. I think we should. Let us not see politics everywhere and wherever it is not even visible. I'm voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare, registration number 5171. [[on the transfer of objects]] Please be friendly. [[16:31:05]] For 217 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 8, "Regions of Ukraine" - 53, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 22, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 18, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, "Soyuz" - 10, "One Ukraine" - 13, "Centre" - 6, "NDP and PPU - 6, "Deminiciatives" - 0, "O" - 3. Dear colleagues, please don't relax. I'm betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of Bill 5171. Please vote. [[16:31:58]] For 225 Let's organize a contest: which faction will shout louder, and so. I realized that the Colonies were out of the contest. Do you mind if I put it to the vote again? Okay, I'm voting once again on the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare, bill number 5171. [[on the transfer of objects]] We have a friendly vote. [[16:33:03]] For 251 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please don't relax. There is one sentence in this law. Let's save a ton of paper for the second reading. There's nothing to change: either it's accepted or it's not accepted. So I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[16:33:38]] For 261 The law is passed. Thank you, dear colleagues. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 8, "Regions of Ukraine" - 60, Communists - 59, Social Democrats - 36, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, Agrarian Party - 20, National Agrarian - 20, Socialist - 20, Block Timoshenko - 6, "Soyuz" - 17, Party "One Ukraine" - 13, "Centre" - 8, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, "Deminiciates" - 0, "Afterfaction" - 3. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Organised Crime". [[for Special Units]] Bill number 5661. The First Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mikhail Vasilovich, will report. Prepare Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable National Deputies! The main purpose of this bill is to introduce the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime in accordance with article 106 of the Constitution. Two changes are proposed. One: the order of appointment of the Head of GUS. The bill amends article 9 of the Ukrainian Act in the section relating to the incorporation into the Constitution of Ukraine of the order of appointment and the dismissal of the head of the Directorate General for Combating Organized Crime, Ukraine’s first deputy minister of internal affairs. The President of Ukraine, at the request of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who agrees with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption, proposes to be appointed as provided for in article 106 of the Constitution. And the second change. It's called the structural units of HlV. It is proposed to hold the names of structural units to combat organised crime of the Ministry of Interior in accordance with the overall structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which is approved by the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. [[Article 1 of this Law]] In connection with the subject, it is suggested that these changes be accepted as a matter of law as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u31	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On the night of November 1st, our country translated far the best page in its history. Since the issue under consideration today relates to the activities of special departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the fight against organized crime, I must inform the population of Ukraine that today the Ministry of Interior is protecting criminal elements. Organized crime has essentially come out of the trenches, and today the Ukrainian law, rights, and freedoms of citizens are being openly condoned. In the province of Tachiv, Zakarpat, the national deputy, Markusz, spent two hours trying to reach the territorial electoral commission, which was guarded by boys who had been spotted in Mukachevo. [[Communist faction]] In the Kirovograd region, in the wake of the assassination of the militia, gunmen jumped into the district commission, shot at the ceiling, took the ballot papers, and disappeared. In the Donetsk region, the 5 channel operator disappeared, along with the video that was taken. In the Red Light, the head of the Klimentiev district was kidnapped by the head of the Red Loch bloc of Ukraine. The police closed their eyes to all of this. It's a pain that we have to say. But more people. Militia's only a few hundred thousand. And it's not clear at what national cost, at which on the night of November 1st, the Central Election Commission was surrounded by columns of militias, armoured transporters, specialnaz, which was imported from all over Ukraine at the expense of taxpayers. Please excuse the parliamentary rostrum, it's also parliamentary that it's provided for the report and used by anyone who wants and does. I hope that on November 21st of St. Michael's Day the holy grace will come upon the minister's head and yet he will keep the oath, the honor of an officer and a militiaman. As for the said additions to the law, the committee, after considering it at its meeting, unanimously decided to support it and asked the Supreme Council to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u33	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, but use parliamentary language after all. "One thing at a time" sounds a little rough. One voice better. Yes, dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please, Mironenko, behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u34	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The Communist faction will support the bill, especially since there is a provision that the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine will also be the first Deputy Minister. That's good. This will already be given greater attention, greater attention to combating organized crime. At the same time, I would like to say for myself the following, in the same norm, what the President appoints is the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime. If we are really focused on constitutional reform, if we are to replace the President-Parliamentary Republic with the Parliamentary-Presidentate Republic, as almost everyone is saying, in the future, we should probably review all these rules and ensure that the Cabinet of Ministers approves both ministers and the First Vice-Presidents, and that is only for the benefit of the case. On this point, I would like to refer to the same faction of “Our Ukraine”, which has previously advocated constitutional reform and is now abstaining. Because I think you will agree that this reform is needed by the people, and we constantly appeal to the people. It is necessary for the people to ensure, first of all, the approval of democracy, because we have absolutely no democracy. Since the 91st year, if there has been a socialist democracy with flaws, since the 91st year, the power of capitalists, whatever they are called, has been the power of capitalists, that is, we must affirm democracy, the power of the people. What democracy can be said when a people is powerless now is understandable. Second, we must also take into account responsibility, because there is no responsibility of the President or of the Government or of Parliament. No responsibility, deputies come here and serve for four years. Constitutional reform is necessary, so the Communist faction invites all factions of Parliament to support constitutional reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u35	Thank you. In accordance with the rules, I provide a clarification. In carrying out political reform, as planned, ministers will be appointed, not by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by the Supreme Council. Please, Carmazine. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u36	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies, dear Ukrainians, I wanted to draw your attention to the need for changes in this Law. The better, the worse they're offered today is one question. But whatever Law is not accepted if it is not fulfilled, it will be worthless. I mean those laws that we've established three articles criminalizing citizens' will. In the city of Odessa, 16 criminal groups of 15 were created, each for the purpose of committing illegal crimes against the electoral rights of citizens, who were to vote on a number of occasions. Young people were involved. Nothing has been done by the authorities to combat organized crime and corruption, nor has the administration of a similar security service in Ukraine. Some of these brigades have been detained by our citizens. And I think we're going to make it public and show you what's behind it and how the votes were bought and how the criminal election was done by those who voted for it. They clearly voted for Yanukovich. Thus, honorable national MPs must make serious changes to this law. And I'm addressing Mr. Stretovich. Without your consent, Mr. Stretovich, your committee in Crimea is a retired head of the law enforcement department in the special departments of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Senior Justice Adviser to Shevchuk, solely for detecting and violating a criminal case for the theft of 50 million dollars of illegal air, which, air, I mean, of an inflated VAT. But since the connections to Kiev had begun and the names were very high there, the team had to stop, stall, and remove an honest, decent prosecutor from office. Use of units, special units, as it doesn't fit the law. On the night of the 23rd of the 24th near CBC, no one has yet identified those people who have cut 11 citizens of Ukraine, defenseless absolutely, no one has found out. But Berkut, the unit that's supposed to be fighting organized crime has blocked the entrance to the MPs. And then the media speculated on this fact, giving the information quite the opposite. In principle, first reading can be accepted and given.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u37	Please, Melniczuk, prepare Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u38	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The main purpose of the bill is to introduce the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the Organization of Legal Basiss for Combating Organized Crime, consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. Hence, the Socialist Party was certainly determined by this. We will support this bill. But it certainly warns that somewhere special units are not used as assignments. And I would like to believe that those people who were 23, when they didn't allow the members of the Supreme Council to join the Central Electoral Commission, and those who were in the President's palace when there were 50 national deputies, surrounded us with weapons, understood that there were clearly rules of the Constitution, rules of law, and perhaps those who gave orders should also have some responsibility, not to interfere with the activities of the people's deputies, because we are acting in accordance with the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. Mikhail Vasilovich, I know by using your reaction that you have repeatedly responded to my speeches and helped. I thank you for that. I have no reason not to trust in the Montenegrin area of law enforcement. I'm working with the Navy of Petrov, and the DA's office of Galkini, and the SBU of Kitsul. They're helping me with the questions that the citizens of the Cherniewsky region are asking me. But the latest events on the Book are disturbing me as a national MP. Again, I repeat, an incident involving the destruction of an entrepreneur, the assassination of a market manager, his family. There might be some conclusion ahead that some of them had other questions, let's say business issues, there's other business issues. But when an attack comes on a person, first, as a Ukrainian national deputy, I stand for human protection. I'd like to ask you to help the law enforcement authorities in the Chernobyl area to deal with the situation that is going on in Bukovina today, because I'm being approached by people, I have no explanation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u39	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u40	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. There's no union, there's no factory, there's no property, there's no land, there's no land. So what I'm saying is, I'm with people who don't have anything. That's the first one. The other one. The bill introduced by the government of capitalist ministers is absolutely hopeless for an average Ukrainian. For the people, there is no proof for the people of Ukraine in this bill. He settles certain issues, certain legal relationships among the power structures, but this is only necessary for those who take this power in the next two or three weeks, even by force, and will have to use these force structures for themselves. The meager oppression of the will of his own people. So let's say with you that there will be our authority, the national authority, and this law will work, just like the weapons in your hands, the weapons in the hands of an armed militiaman who is called to protect the people, it will work properly. And a gun in the hands of a police officer, or a mercenary in capitalist power, or a gun in the hands of a bandit who serves a certain oligarch, as we say now, will only work to protect these bandits. So let's say the same thing about this law. For the people today, under the authority that has come to be, it is absolutely hopeless, hopeless, but we will expect that the national authority will finally be restored, and we will use this law for the benefit of the people and all the power structures in general. And the last words. Dear colleagues, you and I know that two clans -- orange and white and yellow -- have come together today. Unfortunately, 80 percent of the population believed in this political circus, these political breakthroughs, and the "persecutors" and in half voted in favour of both. We have only a short time left to bring to the attention of the once-in-a-lifetime political leaders of the people of Ukraine that he has lost in these elections absolutely. And let's do it hard every day. At last, the people will understand what and what. Ours will take, victory after us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u41	Only, Yuri Petrovich, you're a little bit yellow. Yeah, we're done here, we'll figure it out. I'm voting on the adoption on the basis of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Organised Crime, the registration number of Bill 5661. [[for Special Units]] Please vote. [[16:51:50]] For 285 Thank you, 285. The committee. Is there no objection in general? Still, it is unlikely that we can fix it, for it is wise to write it all down. Then, if there's no objection, I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime. [[for Special Units]] Please vote. [[16:52:28]] For 289 The law is passed. As we can see, despite our direct political polarity, we love and honor the militia. Yes, there is a bill amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. [[on the use of weapons]] Ukraine Registration Number 5574. Reports Chief of General Staff Kirichenko Sergey Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In April 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian State Border Service Act, which took effect on September 1, 2003, and repealed the Ukrainian Foreign Military Act, which gave the Government of Ukraine the authority to determine the order of use of arms during the protection of the State border, according to the eighth article of the Cabinet of Ministers. On the basis of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of September 4, 2003, the order of use of weapons, military equipment, and special measures during the protection of the State border was abolished. Thus, the legal and regulatory framework for the grounds and order of use of weapons by the anti-air defence forces has in fact been abolished. To meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine at the Ministry of Defence, a draft Act has been drafted to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which has been approved at the meeting of the Government Committee on Defence, Industrial Defence and Law Protection, at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and at the meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September of this year. The adoption of the aforementioned law by the Supreme Council will allow for legal grounds for the use of weapons, military equipment by mergers, military units, including the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in peacetime, and the issuance of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the tasks of the military forces for the use, the use of weapons and the authority of officials and officials in their application and use in peacetime. This will regulate the legal framework for the grounds and procedures for the use of weapons and military equipment by the anti-air defence forces of the State. In view of the revitalization of international terrorism, it should be noted that the adoption of the proposed draft law has become essential. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u43	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Our committee has considered the bill carefully. It is essential because it specifies the legal basis for the use of the Armed Forces and military technology in peacetime. We support this bill, but on one condition. Here, as a basis for the use and use of weapons and military equipment, is the following: "Ensure the execution of tasks assigned to them by the Armed Forces in cases provided for by other legislative acts." Since this is not specific and can be interpreted sufficiently arbitrarily, so as not to allow any double interpretations here, our committee proposes to write this paragraph in the following wording: "Ensure the execution of the tasks imposed on them by the Armed Forces to counter possible armed aggression against Ukraine, ensure the protection of its airspace and underwater space within the sea of Ukraine, prevent terrorist acts in cases provided for by other legislative acts." These are the laws. The Law on Combating Terrorism, the Law on the Legal Regime of State of Emergency, and others. In view of this, the committee considers it possible to adopt the bill both as a basis and as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u45	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Dear colleagues, I see what you have. Please, who insists on signing up? Carmazin and Melniczuk, and Mironenko. Please, Karmazin. Then Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u46	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I just heard a report from the committee head. He showed you exactly the first danger that there is. I have exactly the same warning, which is unspecified, that the first reading should be deleted, because ensuring that the tasks entrusted to them can be widely interpreted and used against the interests of the people. Although the law clearly states in article 1 that no extraordinary circumstances, orders or orders of commanders and superiors can be a basis for any illegal action against the civilian population, its property and its environment. For giving and executing a manifest criminal order or order, military officials are responsible under the law. But there is a second danger, Georgi Korniyovich, that you haven't paid attention to. Maybe I think we just missed it. The project gives the government the right to determine the order of use of weapons and military equipment by mergers, military units and units, including the forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in peacetime, under conditions of emergency or when they perform the tasks defined in part four of article 1 of the Act. [[This article 9]] So, where it applies in times of peace and in conditions of emergency, it has to be completely excluded. This must be determined exclusively by law and only by law. Because there are so many willing people today who are willing to use not only the way the voting mechanism today has been deployed by the Armed Forces. And that's probably why I'm asking the Chief of General Staff not to release military personnel who have served their terms. You know that today the parents of these Ukrainian citizens are asking us to explain why these people are still not being demolished and that their commanders are explaining that this is necessary to secure a second round vote as a candidate for the presidents of Ukraine. I would very much like the General Staff of the Armed Forces to issue appropriate directives along with the Secretary of Defense, and I would like to see that we have, except for these two moments, a clear understanding and support of our army and alert those incidents where the air strike was launched, and our citizens in Barbara were aware of rocket launchers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u47	The word is given by the national MP Mironenko, followed by Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u48	I doubted the need to speak, but after hearing a very light shout from one MP on this very important bill, I decided to say a few words. Respectable compatriots, there is a dictatorship now, but blood has not yet been shed. The dictatorship is carried out by major capitalists from 91st to 2004. All power belongs to capitalists, the people are powerless, the President, the Government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Judicial System, all serving capitalists. Usually, if matters are resolved in court, they are naturally decided for the benefit of capitalists. The Government is pursuing a capitalist policy, including the Government of Yushchenko, which was, we remember, which has abolished the benefits of workers but has continued to benefit the same capitalists. And so far, this is happening through peaceful means, because only one per cent of the population still manages large capital in favour of policies that prevent 99 per cent of the population from managing the country through the media. The people still believe in the media and this has been evident during these presidential elections. But such trust of the people is not unlimited. In the end, people will understand that power is criminal, anti-national and will vote as it should. And at this point, when the people vote for whether or not the communists, whether there may be even a party that, like Lukashenko, takes a clear position in behalf of the people, at this point large capital can be used by the armed forces. Therefore, this bill cannot be approached very easily. When will this happen? When can these forces be used? No one can exclude the main thing that is possible. I'm addressing all the deputies. Anyone who does not want a bloody dictatorship, but really wants to move towards a democracy that we have absolutely, as we understand it, does not, please, vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u49	The word is given by the national MP Melniczuk, followed by Solomonine. Melniczuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u50	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill is proposed to supplement article 1 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. A position that will determine the possible use of weapons by the Ukrainian Armed Forces in peacetime, primarily by the very antiair defence forces. Among other things, the Cabinet of Ministers also regulates the use of weapons, combat techniques, and military units, including the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in peacetime, under conditions of emergency or when they carry out tasks defined in part four of the first article of this law. There's a warning. Will we not allow the armed forces, not the soldiers, as their leaders, to use weapons if there is a situation where we have to express some dissatisfaction to those who fake the election? Either it's a peaceful demonstration of citizens, or it's going to be other measures that political parties or citizens themselves will take. So I'm not going to say what kind of decision the faction made. We have warnings about supporting this bill. And I would also like to invite the honourable fellow members of the national MPs to look again at this bill. We have talked about many times about what was being prepared, and until 31, there were military units under Kiev that we would be talking about to protect today’s authority just in case. So we think that this bill needs to be approached very carefully. Whether we vote or not, that is the conclusion of every national MP present in this room. As for the MPs, we approach this bill very carefully and we will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u51	The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, at the request of my colleague, MPs of blue and white, I will not emphasize his last name so that I don't pounce. But I'm starting to change a little bit. The government of the Donetsk capitalist ministers has brought to the attention of the bourgeois parliament of Ukraine, in which the Donetsks do not currently prevail, because they are walking around at their meetings, another bill seeking to organize the issue of the use of weapons in peacetime by the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest with you, looking each other in the eye. Any government of the ministers of the Ukrainian, Russian, American, English capitalists will break any Constitution and any laws in order to use weapons at the right time. Please, Iraq. What do we have to do with you? The two leading democracies of the world — the old good British democracy and the new American democracy, the United Nations worldwide — were duped. They bombed Iraq for what they know. Now they don't know how to get out of the mess they're in, and we're helping them sit in this mess and we're doing some of the work instead. So let us be honest and honest with our constituents, our homeland, our homeland. This bill, it does nothing radically and capitally, except for certain formal legal issues. If he is favored by capital and wants to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine against his own people, he will certainly apply them. And we have to understand this clearly and be prepared for these unexpected situations. And finally, the last words. Today in the bourgeois parliament of Ukraine, we convince each other that this is where we gather and care for the fate of the disadvantaged Ukraine, the people of Ukraine. I would like to emphasize once again, to the deluded people of Ukraine, that on another occasion political thimblers and fraudsters tricked him when they forced the people to make a choice, as if it were between two Victors. The people chose him over capital. Which one of these Victors?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u53	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Georgi Korniyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I want to say that because some statements have been made here, that our committee unanimously made a decision, you know that there are different factions in it. Indeed, we were concerned that there was no basis in this law for the use of the Armed Forces in the interests of the hostile nation. And I suggested that I do it at the suggestion of a committee. Perhaps the colleagues here did not hear or want to hear. That's the first one. Second, regarding the remarks made by a colleague who often speaks, regarding the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers has long been mandated by the Armed Forces Act, and there is no innovation in this regard. There's money other than that -- the use of force is being clarified, because we didn't have that category before when we passed the Armed Forces Act. And there's nothing else in this law. Therefore, our committee requests that we accept this law on both the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to listen to the amendment of the Head of the Professional Committee, and with such an amendment as introduced by the Professional Committee, I place the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, registration number 5574. [[on the use of weapons]] Please vote. [[17:11:56]] For 218. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 3, "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 32, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 17, SPO - 5, Block Timoshenko - 12, "Soyuz" - 6, "One Ukraine" - 12, "Centre" - 3, "NDP and PPU - 8, "Deminicatives" - 1, "Afterfraction - 3. Dear colleagues, once again, we are voting in the first reading with the amendment I made on behalf of the Committee Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov. Please vote. We're voting on the amendment. [[17:12:48]] For 223 Well, with the amendment, Yuri Anatolyevich, yours. We vote, we vote with the amendment that the committee said. Vote. May I have your attention, fellow officers? There's a committee proposal. A decision is needed. We'll take that as a base. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. [[on the use of weapons]] Registration number 5574. Please vote against the committee head's amendment. Please vote. "Centre," please vote. [[17:13:42]] For 241 Yes, we voted. Now. A committee proposal. Microphone, please. Since the amendment is taken into account, the committee is proposing to you: the adoption of the draft law as a whole: the amendment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. [[on the use of weapons]] Registration number 5574. Please vote. [[17:14:25]] For 208 Bill accepted. I'd like you to work on taking into account the proposals, more so than the denial of the National Deputy Carmazin. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders, registered number 5725, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy and European Integration Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Who will be speaking from the committee? The committee head will be speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders are being made with the aim of improving the process of forming a state defence order and aligning it with the Ukrainian Code of Budget. This is about article 5 of the law, which defines the mechanism for financing the defence order. Since article 10 of the Budget Code provides that a programming classification of its expenditure is used for the formulation of the State budget, the financing of the defence order can be made exclusively by means of appropriate budget programs as their constituents. The amount of funding for public defence procurement within the relevant budgetary programmes is defined by government contracting authorities as the main budget administrators. In addition, article 55 of the Code provides that a list of protected articles on the expenditure of the State Budget is to be determined by the State Budget Act. In view of this, it is proposed that article 5 of the State Defense Order Act be amended accordingly. The draft amendments were approved at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 14th this year. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the Committee on Security and Defence, has the floor to speak to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee supports the Government's bill, as it improves the mechanism for the formation of the basic indicators of the state defence order and brings this issue into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. We didn't get any comments. Scientific experts also consider it necessary to adopt this law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u59	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this bill? It doesn't, does it? Then I'd like your attention, Your Honor. May I have your attention, please? There will be a vote. May I have your attention, please? Change the vote. I asked who was insisting on the performance. Is Mironenko insisting on the performance? Victor Mironenko, are you insisting on the performance? Please, Victor Mironenko, get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u60	If Carmazin insists, then I'll speak, yes. Respectable compatriots! National Deputy of Ukraine Mironenko, 5 constituency. This bill must undoubtedly be supported. But I would like to draw attention to the next very negative trend. There is a focus on providing orders to private enterprises. And it doesn't seem to be a problem, but the trend is alarming. At least pay attention in Russia. There they came to the point that the armor had already been ordered abroad, where the Israeli firm was operating. And it's not that it's Israeli, it's that it's foreign. That is, if we are thinking about protecting the country's capacity, we must probably provide government orders and give them to public enterprises. Please take this into account, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u61	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin has the right to speak from the faction of "Our Ukraine". Mikhailo Melniczuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask you, "What is the purpose of making changes to this law?" It says here that the purpose of this act is to further improve the mechanism for the formation of basic State defence procurement indicators, the adaptation of the State Defence Order Act to existing legislation and the requirements of article 55 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. And this is written in an explanatory note from the government. Now let's see what it's like. The government simply proposes to cancel the current drafting of the State Procurement Act according to which the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine for the financing of the defence order is included in the list of protected articles of expenditure and is provided for in a separate line for each public client. That's what you and I have been trying to do here for years. For everything to be a separate line, we've worked with you and we're making these proposals on the budget committee and then they're voting here. Now the government wants the funding to be made at the expense of the funds provided for in the state budget in general, but in terms of terms and volumes that the government has approved for itself. Please tell me, is this a democratic norm? Does anyone need it, does it make any difference? So I'm surprised when they say it's the right thing to do. Thus, honourable and dear deputies, part 3, article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code stipulates that the laws of Ukraine that affect the formation of the expenditure portion of the budget should be officially published by 15 August 2006, which predates the planned one, i.e. in the case of the adoption of the bill and its promulgation by 15 August 2005, it can only take effect as of 1 January 2006, and it should be written in the Law, and it says that it has been published since the day of its publication. And it skips the science department, it skips the government, it skips the budget committee, it skips the committee that reports, and they don't tell us anything about it. What I have to do for you, Your Honor, the Heads of the Committees and the Executive Department, I don't have to work for you. So I don't think this law is useful or not in time, it's not necessary for the state right now, and I'm asking you to do it, not to do it, to analyze it very seriously. Now I explain to those who are here who are yelling, as Odessa voted. Odessa voted four times better for our Ukraine block than she voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u63	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the socialist party of Ukraine, turn on the microphone, and Solomonine will be next. Well, I'm asking you to calm down, dear colleagues, please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u64	Mikhailo Melniczuk Faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec Region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We will support this bill, especially as it needs to be brought into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. I'd like to contact you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I've already turned to you from this high rostrum. After I asked about the situation in the village that happened today, that there was no diesel, I got another call from colleagues, heads of farms, villagers, and they're calling about what happened to the fire extinguisher. We still need to see why, until now, the oil companies have failed to implement the Cabinet of Ministers' orders to pay for the supply of diesel fuel to the village. Not only is it not possible to buy an allowance for 2 bracelets of 90, but it is impossible to buy fuel for 3 bracelets. The soybeans stopped, the gathering of late crops stopped, and the oracle stopped. Let's go with this political passion around the election, not forget about the village, about the peasant, because tomorrow we'll face the food crisis again. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine refers to all those involved in this matter, yet let the peasants sow, see the land. Tomorrow we need bread for the citizens of the country, and today we are talking about one another, about the other. So let's stop at this problem. I would like, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to have some of our Parliament's actions in order for the villagers to feel that Parliament is working, that Parliament is interested not only in the political issues involved in the elections, but also in the situation that has taken place in the village today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u65	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. I'd like to draw your attention to just one word in the title of the bill "for state," I emphasize, the state defense order. What kind of state do we have today? The state is capitalist, the government is bourgeois-democracy. And we have a clear understanding of this situation to discuss this bill. Because whoever's in power is going to provide such a state-owned defense order that will benefit those who pushed the proper capitalist and president ministers to the top of this power vertical. Would you like an example? Please. Iraq took place. Let's talk about Iraq's post-war reconstruction. The U.S. State makes big money. Who gets the upper hand in these tenders? The Calibart company, which is with the friends of the acting President George Bush. So let's not fool each other's heads. And this law, it will work for those who will be around the President and around the government of the one who will be formed, not those who are in the so-called bourgeois opposition and not those who are in the Communist opposition, because they never have such specific interests. With the exception of one situation where the authorities will be returned to the Communist Party for the will of the people at last, and we will form a state defense order for the benefit of our people, not the frauds who rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. To conclude, I would like to invite the head of the Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u68	Dear colleagues. First. I didn't want anyone working for me as head of the committee. I'm capable of working alone. If I am not capable, I will say that I am asking to be relieved of these responsibilities. And these statements from this rostrum I see as a personal insult, even on the part of a person who thinks it's appropriate to speak on any issue, even one that he doesn't understand. That's the first one. The other one. The innovation in this law does not alter the existing order of the defense order, nor does it create any obstacles to the formation of this order for the following year. There's no need to mislead Parliament. Third, third. I don't know the name of this deputy, so I don't call it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Third. An amendment to the law introduces the Act on State Defence Orders by the State Budget Act of Ukraine and the Code of Budget. According to the Budget Code, the list of protected articles is determined by the State Budget Act. With that in mind, I ask you to adopt this law as a whole. If he doesn't set someone up, I know, and the super revolutionaries are very many, they're everywhere, let them draft the law repealing that law. And we will work in an environment of lawlessness. I don't mind that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u69	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders has been completed. May I have your attention, please? A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the National Defence Order Act. Registration number 5725. Please vote. [[17:29:26]] For 261 We took the document as a basis. The committee proposes that it be accepted as a law as a whole. What objections? Microphone, please, Carmazine. What objections? Is that what they're talking about? Now, one minute. Well, I'm on the Rules. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I repeat that the bill, written that it enters, takes effect from the day of publication. This is contrary to the Code of Budgets, article 27. That's what I'm talking about. There is a need for correction. In addition, a number of other details need to be made. Vladimir Mihajlovich, let's not rape the Rules. I ask you, on the first reading you accepted, let me make some adjustments there so that you don't simply ask any questions about the government's ransom that you've already done a lot. You know, in shadow, we have 60 percent of Val's inner product. It's because of the abuse. And this is by definition Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, I quote him, although I personally believe that not 55 and not 60, but 70 percent is in the shade. This shadow is exactly what fundes the election today, because 50, 100 bracelets a vote no one else could pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u71	Yes, please, Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich. Please refer to the committee’s advice, whether it is against the budget code or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u72	The proposed amendment to the law does not alter the existing technology of the design of the defense government, nor does it create any obstacles. That's the first one. And secondly, no new powers are given to the government; there is no need to deceive parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u73	Yes, dear colleagues, please. Now, one minute. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u74	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Eugene Kirilchuk In fact, both sides and sides are right. The point is that the State budget needs to be changed by now for the following year, in any case. But what is needed is that the formation of a stately order in detail is necessary, but it must be done in time, as recorded in the Law on the Budget Code or in the Codex Budget. Because of this, we cannot accept it in our second reading. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I ask you to consider this issue on the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, since you have a warning on this matter, do you? Mikola Nightshenko, please. Well, there's a warning, then let's not put it on, dear fellows! We won't discuss it. Sleepy-night microphone. We'll take the others now. Nightly microphone, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u76	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the government’s order has been raised and will be made under the principal’s funds. Given that there is no separate line in the State budget under this principal order of tenure, I think that the objection is irrelevant and I ask that you support the proposal of the head of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we do not violate the Rules to withdraw our warnings, since these are the appropriate explanations. Is there no objection? The bill was passed. May I have your attention, please? The bill was adopted as a basis. I'm asking the committee to prepare for, say, Thursday. We'll take it and that's it. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the alienation of military property]] Registration number 5777. Reporter is Head of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Sergey Alexanderovich Kirichenko. Get ready from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The proposed draft Ukrainian Act amending article six of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, prepared by the Ministry of Defence with a view to improving the legal and regulatory framework for the management of Ukrainian Armed Forces. The draft law provides for a rule on granting the Cabinet of Ministers the power to decide on the possibility of free transfer of military property to countries with which Ukraine has a partnership. The bill has been drafted in accordance with the comments and suggestions made in December 2003 by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence. In particular, the drafting of the bill is supplemented by the following provisions: on a free basis, countries with which Ukraine cooperates can only be transferred military property; and legal principles on which international contracts or contracts can be transferred may be transferred. The terms of the transfer of military property are supplemented by the obligation of countries not to transfer the property to third countries. Moreover, under the adoption of the law, the transfer of military property on a free basis will be made on the basis of decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which, prior to the adoption of the provisional regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, are subject to agreement with the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the issue of European integration of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. All foreign military property transfers are controlled by Ukraine’s Derzexport Control. All transfers of military property on the external market are made by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine solely through government-authorized enterprises and organizations. The draft law was approved at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September this year. Please accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u79	Thank you. Please sit down, Sergey Alexanderovich. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the Committee. But it's a reduced procedure, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee had twice considered the matter. When the first bill came from the government, we had a number of warnings. Some warnings were also made by scientific experts. As we considered it, we expressed our wish that the government would withdraw the bill and submit a new bill that would meet all the requirements that we have formulated, including the opinion of scientific experts. This was also done by a bill that provides for the possibility of free transfer of military property. Sometimes you know what happens to this suitcase when you don't have a pen and you carry it hard and you throw it away. In order not to harm the state, the bill contains seven warnings that allow compliance to ensure that these issues are resolved from the national interests of Ukraine. Sergey Alexanderovich said that, I'm just not going to say it again. The point is that only movable property can be transferred only in accordance with international contracts or contracts, only if it helps to secure our positions on the world arms market and to strengthen international positions if the costs associated with transfers are reimbursed, including exports outside Ukraine, and guarantees are given that this property will not be transferred to other third countries. The decision will be made by the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of this, the committee requests that the law be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u81	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. We need to discuss it briefly, don't we, dear colleagues? We've got a sign-up sheet, please give us the names of the national MPs who signed up. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! To get out of this bill, it actually made me think of this as an extraordinary situation. That's what this is about. I would like to draw attention, although the bill concerns more the international aspect of the problem of military property, I would like to draw attention to the internal aspect of the problem. And here's the thing. Last week, I was in meetings with the voters of Ivano-Frankishteen, particularly with the voters of Colomia and Ivano-Frankowska, one of my meetings was with the military pensioners, and I was handed over a package of documents on so-called sales in paws, and I would say so to the military town of Ivano-Frankowsky's financial company. The point is that a military town, including barracks, warehouses, hospitals, officers’ houses, and so forth, is a small thing that can be viewed as a gift, not a purchase, but, of course, a gift. What's more, I'd particularly like to draw attention to the fact that this deal took place when one Defense Minister was released and the other was not yet appointed and done, I understand, by the people who are going to be in charge of the Defense Department. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much and I ask the Chief of General Staff, if you'll excuse me for this property, not even the Ministry, it's the property of the people of Ukraine and give it to anyone, or at no cost to distribute, sorry, it's no way out of the situation. So I'd like to ask, fellow colleagues, despite the fact that this is about the international aspect of this problem, it's about dealing with the problem of military property and how it's alienated very and very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u83	Thank you. Stepanovich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin has the floor for the speech. To prepare Valentina Petrovni Semenyuk. Well, with motive at the end, as they say, then with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u84	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is certainly better than the 4409 bill that was passed on November 21, 2003. Some warnings are already taken into account, and they are available, but I would like to ask myself and you: Is an agreement to transfer property to another country an international agreement? Perhaps there is. If this is an international agreement, it is subject to the rules provided for in a completely different law, the Law on International Contracts. If so, then these laws are signed by representatives of both governments, both the government of Ukraine, and another country to which our property is transferred free of charge. If so, these agreements are then ratified and ratified in accordance with the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's not what our Constitution provides. Here it is suggested, in principle, that we bypass this position. I think it would be necessary to predict this, for that is how we are going to get into very serious problems. Of course, I am sure that the new government that will be in this country will initiate a review of the transfer of these cases not only in the area of Ivano-Frankiv, but also in the city of Kiev, directly across from Lavra, they passed on the colossal premises and handed over the land, because the issues in the land, both in Odessa and in Lviv and in the Crimea, and including the military sanatoriums, which, for copies, are pricelessly realized with enormous profits for specific people. It's also in Odessa, the 6th kilometers that were in air defence, and now it's under the largest market in Ukraine, under the 7th kilometers market. They also went around the land that was in the military. Of course, this bill of land does not apply or apply to buildings, that is, immovable property, only movable property. But in view of the fact that this is an agreement, an international agreement, I would consider it necessary to engage, first of all, a committee and to study this issue more comprehensively. And that's why, for example, I can't find the strength to vote for this bill in this form. Although he already has fewer flaws than he had before. Further warnings are needed regarding international agreements and ratifications of them in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u85	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready fast, all right? I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u86	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, first of all, it is important to note and clarify the article of one of the bill. First of all, military property, quote, houses, buildings, transmission devices, all kinds of weapons, combat and other equipment, ammunition, fuel-oil materials, food, technology, airports, leather, goods, cultural and educational equipment, medical, veterinary, household-chemical, engineering property, communications property, etc. If we want to transfer everything together, it's clear that we're splitting up -- real estate that can be passed on, and property. Which is indivisible. That's the first one. The other one. A change in article six of the law in force does not harmonize with the contents of this article, since the first article does not harmonize with the sixth article. Since this article provides for a free transfer and other exclusion from the results of the tender. So there's a third article that doesn't correspond to a fourth. And it's written: the funds received from the implementation of military assets are included in the State Budget and are used exclusively for assets, that is, for defense. If we're saying there's going to be a free transfer, that's one situation. If it goes into effect, the Ministry of Defense needs to create a list of state property, hand over the holding fund. And let's say it's a building or a property that does the function and is indivisible, let the State Property Fund do the bidding. And here's what happens is that we have the State Property Fund, which should do this function, and at the same time, the Ministry of Defense will do the trade. That's what competitions you can talk about. Moreover, the cost of selling property, selling and reselling will be included in the State Budget. The other one. The transfer of property according to what my previous speaker said. Whether this price will be on offer to keep Ukraine in the military arms market is one situation. And when it comes to building, building, it's quite different. Therefore, we feel that it is necessary to clarify article six, article one, in particular with regard to the types of property and the conditions for its implementation. That's who's going to perform this function -- the Ministry or the State Property Fund. These functions need to be clearly divided. Moreover, so far no inventory has been carried out in the Ministry of Defence, no list of assets to be privatized through the State Property Fund and a list of assets that can be transferred and implemented. So, of course, such a bill can't be adopted in such a mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u87	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Before we go to the vote, based on Eugene Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, then the committee head will sum it up. Please invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u88	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you may remember that the Supreme Council of the Second Council, a special commission, has revealed more than 30 billion. stolen, sold off property of military origin. If we replace the word with the Supreme Council's decree to ratify the Supreme Council, the faction will support this bill. If it remains only a government decision, these problems are solved, the faction will not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u89	Yes, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, please turn on the microphone. Head of the committee. Taking into account the offer that has been made, how do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u90	I think that's a perfectly good offer. When it comes to international agreements, to conclude a commitment given by the Supreme Council, that is, to apply our formula. In preparing for the second reading, we will consider this. That's the first one. And the second. I would like colleagues to have in mind the transfer of military property in certain cases to other countries with which Ukraine works. And don't confuse things around here that are inside the country, and that are individual cases where you have to give up some kind of tank or helicopter or other property in the interests of Ukraine. Real estate, it's stipulated that it can't be passed on. So I'd like to take the basis for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine has been completed. [[on the alienation of military property]] The committee’s vote is based on the warnings expressed and supported by the committee. This is a proposal by the committee: the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, registration number 5777, taking into account the warnings made by the National Deputy Kirilchuk and supported by the Committee. [[on the alienation of military property]] Please vote. [[17:51:16]] For 213 I understand. Dear colleagues, we take as a basis, I address all the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] And with those warnings, they were, what. [[B in m in s a l in]] For the second reading, I say. That's what we take as a base. It's the basis. For adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, registration number 5777, taking into account the proposals made by the National Deputy Kirilchuk and supported by the Committee. [[on the alienation of military property]] Please vote. Please vote. Everyone else will be included in the second reading of the amendment, please vote. [[17:52:13]] For 234 The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, we have another bill of interest. Listen, please. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine is the birthmark of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Shall we look at this project? Let's take a look. I would like to request a report from Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Very short. Dear colleagues, please mobilize.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u92	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. This is a project designed to be commissioned by the Supreme Council on the relevant laws after the adoption of the Electoral Act. It's just to remove from the People's MP's Status Act those positions that regulate the relationship between a constituency member in a constituency with the local self-government regarding the possibility of working, the relationship with the local regional press, and the number on the badge, which will not be the county number, but the number that the Central Electoral Commission member registers, because, according to the new electoral law, those who will be elected in the districts will simply not be. Here are all the changes that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u93	Any warnings, dear colleagues? You don't? School, microphone, please turn it on. Turn on the school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u94	Thank you. I just wanted some clarifications. Of course, I agree: we need to support this bill. I was just afraid that symbolism would be changed. I thought they'd either play here painted, or a bowl of balanda or something. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you for making it all right. So I want all of us to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u95	Thank you. Committee position. Please, Basil Gabrieluk. Now, dear fellows, the position of the committee will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u96	The honourable colleagues, according to the bill in force, which the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to the Ministry of Justice, are in fact in agreement with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, which is now in force with the Ukrainian Law in a new edition, which has been adopted on the election of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. We are well aware of the fact that today's Law on the Status of the People's Deputy has been drafted primarily on the basis of a proportional system of elections and majoritarian districts. Today, we know that we have moved on to a proportional electoral system. At our meeting, the Committee has considered the bill and invites it to bring it before the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt draft law No. 6016, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as a basis. the results of the first reading, in line with the requirements of article 6.3, part 1, 2. 3 Rules and Article 6.5, Part 1, paragraph 4 4 Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Scientific and Expert Office has made several comments and proposes that it be moved to work. Our Committee disagrees with this position because there are comments that can be further elaborated on second reading, but our Committee suggests today that one important point and proposal be considered, the bill enters into force as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers since 1 October 2005, and we propose that this date be postponed to the new one. Parliament's already a new 5th exclamation. The bill could then be adopted as a whole. All of it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u97	Vasil Vasilovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, perhaps this is how we will proceed. We'll take that as a base, then we'll take that as a base. Yeah? Now Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin is the first to be written. He'll inspire us and we'll do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u98	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! This is where the regions want to say, like in Odessa. I'll tell you how in Odessa under this law, how he abides. I'm answering. I won't tell you all about Odessa, I'll tell you about the People's Deputy Carmazin. It's okay, isn't it? So here's my answer to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In Odessa, the order established by the leader of the City Party of the Regions, his name was Bodelan Ruslan Borisovic, in which no opposition MP could be on the air of local television for one minute. This is the order you want us to set up "Regions" throughout the country today. That's for you to know. How long ago there were no measures in Odessa, well, there was not such a fascist that it was forbidden to speak. Moreover, it was forbidden even to post any information in the local newspapers. It's just that local channels can always hunt anyone as much as they want. That's what you mean. You asked me about Odessa, I answer to you. Obsessed, yes, for now occupied, but soon to be liberated, just like all Ukraine. We celebrated the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine, freeing all Ukraine. I'm on the bill, but they're distracting me. You made me a comment, Vladimir Mihajlovich. Make a comment, please, to the "regions", then I won't either. Now, as far as this law is concerned. Dear National Deputies! The conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority is very strict, so general. As a result of the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate to go back to work. But I'm humane, and that's what I'm saying. Right, the "regions" applaud. You can see that I'm kind and humane. So, your honor, I'm looking for compromise, so that we don't share Ukraine as your leader did, which showed: the first, second, third class, and that's what we remember found in the 800 tons of dirt in the management of the DUSS that were printed, which was exactly where the posters were, where the first, second, third class. They divided Ukraine, so I don't want to divide Ukraine, I want Ukraine to be a strong normal state. So I would like to suggest that we accept it in the first reading, and the point here is that the most important point is that the order that is determined by law is not established by law, so this law will not work. So in order for him to work, he needs to be accepted in the first reading and filled in with concrete content, I'll make my proposals, concrete, and now I'm calling on you, and our Ukraine, for all other communists, socialists, and let us vote for our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m1.u99	Dear National Deputies! So, please note, we support the proposal of a professional committee on adoption based on the bill and the adjectives to refine it based on the proposals of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, no warnings? May I? Therefore, the proposed vote is a proposal by the Committee on Admission on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees on the status of the National Deputy of Ukraine and the birthmark of the National Deputy of Ukraine, registration number 6016, please vote. [[18:00:41]] For-286 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is 6 p.m., we have every reason to close the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10:00 a.m. to Wednesday, plus questions that we haven't been able to discuss today.
