ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. I'm asking you to take your seats. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:42]] Registered -437 Honourable National Deputies, present at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - Prime Minister of Ukraine. Let's welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Members of the Government, Head of the Constitutional Court, Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Supreme Economic Court, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the National Court of Auditors and Head of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Applause]] In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar schedule for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the fifth call for the second July is scheduled to be closed. In view of the fact that our plenary work is being completed today, let me just announce the questions that have come. Dear colleagues, there have been more than seventy parliamentary inquiries. If you have no objection, let's do it this way. We only vote on the questions that are proposed to be sent to the President of Ukraine, while the others will be drafted in the protocol order, as they are over eighty. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vladimir Nechiporeka and Peter Kuzmenka to the President of Ukraine regarding the dual citizenship of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Eduardo Gurvitz. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:29]] For 283 Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:49]] For 285 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, other questions apply to the heads of the central executive bodies, the heads of the law enforcement agencies. They're 80. We'll form them protocolly and send them to the addressees. No objections? Thank you. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic is invited to attend. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's be tolerant. Calm down, please. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-02-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The next stage of our work together goes back to history. We were now witnesses with you, as they say, of the hysteria we saw during this session. Well, as they say, politics is politics, and when they say politics is a dirty thing, it all depends on who does it. I was convinced of this during my work over the past and a half years in the government. So, despite the fact that the honourable national MPs, that you and I have solved a lot of issues, and in overcoming the differences, we have worked in this room with different political views, but I think that the result that we have received is positive. And the main thing about our work and the result is improving people's lives and strengthening the state. During this time, we had to solve complex issues, and some of them were fatal. I would like to emphasize that the fifth strategic session has become decisive in terms of developing the orientations of Ukraine's future social and political life. First of all, I'm referring to the previous approval of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution. Various battalions were in this room, but I am sure that without cooperation, without a clear division of responsibilities between the branches of government, we will continue to have opposition in our society. Therefore, the effectiveness of the work of authority depends primarily on who is setting and what goal is set for himself. If the goal is to search for enemies inside the state and burn the state outside it, then it will be true. We need to look, find, and show our faces. And may God be the judge of those politicians who take such a stand. They have a personal conscience if they have one. Today, virtually all politicians have become aware that the reform of the political system in Ukraine is a prerequisite for its continued development. As for the oligarchs, I'm going to answer that question. There are many deputies in this room who have worked at different times in the government and who are involved in different negative events that emphasize Ukrainian society: this is also privatization, which is spoken of in different ways in the people; this is also about the destruction of the economy of the state, it is debt, and the suffering of our pensioners and so on. And all those years ago, we had the opportunity to look at it and see for ourselves. And frankly, politicians of different times are said to be in this room. Honest politicians have always expressed their opinions honestly. And I have always paid attention to such politicians, regardless of their political views. So let us be honest with the Ukrainian people and with ourselves, above all. So I, my dear colleagues, would like to address you today from this rostrum, to say that everyone has to do their job, and do what they say by looking into the eyes of the Ukrainian people. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the constructive part of Parliament, all the deputies who supported the government's position and co-operated, along with the government. First of all, we were able to implement the 2003 Cabinet Program with you. The budget was approved in this room last year, where this was the first time. The government is now carrying out its responsibilities and the program you approved for 2005. I'm not going to name a lot of numbers, but they're convincingly proving that you and I have chosen a freeway. Today, Ukraine’s economy is growing. Ukraine’s domestic gross product increased by 11.3 percent in five months. The real income of citizens has increased, the real wage has increased by 27 percent and 15 percent of the real income of citizens. I also believe that, in the second half of this year, economic dynamics will contribute to solving many mature issues. And the decision that was taken to support the government in this room, i.e. to increase the spending part of the budget, will allow 8 billion dollars to be resolved in the second half of this year by many of the issues that Ukrainian society expects of us. And we're dealing with these issues with you. You're a low-down, dear colleagues. [[Applause]] One of the central most important, I think, events, I've already said, is a responsible attitude towards cooperation between government and parliament. And when there was a vote in this room, not depending on political views, but depending on what needs to be decided for our state, there was always a compromise, and we always found a solution. These are also our gains with you. So, as they say, not saying goodbye, but saying good-bye to everyone before the new session, I would like to highlight a few questions or my views, the views that we have in common, which, in our view, are most important for solving in the near future. Among them, I consider the main ones: 1) Ensure further economic growth and improve the standard of living of citizens; (2) Creating conditions for democratic and transparent presidential elections; the adoption of the Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine before the election of the President of Ukraine in October of this year; Further approval of the coalition of MP factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the adoption of the laws necessary to complete Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization; further integration and creation of the Single Economic Space, reforming the tax and financial system, the continuation of land reform, The creation of a balanced State Budget and timely adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year. In conclusion, I would like to point out that these tasks are difficult but quite real. But under the agreed, consolidated and fruitful interaction of national MPs and government officials, we will resolve all these issues with you, your honourable colleagues. I want to thank you again for your cooperation. Have a good rest from the heart. So that in the next session, we can work with new energy to benefit the Ukrainian people and our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-02-m0.u3	The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-02-m0.u4	Dear fellow countrymen, dear national deputies, distinguished Prime Minister, members of the government and leaders of the judiciary, distinguished journalists and guests of the Supreme Council. The fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be the fourth edition of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism in the form of a kind of social and political cardiogram, which records the elevated, accelerated, and, in some cases, intermittent until the country's life's pulse is extinguished. Fewer than ever, Parliament was reminded of a programmed technical conveyor from lawmaking. However, it is clear that it is time to give up the extensive state-of-the-art approaches to our work, for which the production of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is planned in advance and estimated by the percentage of the implementation of the plans. The Supreme Council is a common mechanism, an all-U.S. barometer, which most accurately reflects all national restraints, pains, hopes and anxieties. Then they could not stand and did not stand outside all the less visible processes that had taken place in Ukraine and beyond. This involves the Ukrainian Parliament's involvement in the depths of people's lives, the fundamental problems of state-building, the implementation of the rule of law and justice, and the higher meaning of democracy, democracy that it is called upon to uphold. What's more, being in Europe and not being a democracy is a luxury that we can't afford. It will probably be closer to the truth of the claim that the Supreme Council acquires what has been particularly evident in the last few months, the principle of new social and political quality, trying to become a generally national leader, sensitive to the complex realities of everyday life, exclusively by legal means and mechanisms. Of course, some have been irritated by the acute rejection of the egregious facts of social injustice, the isolated cases of political dictatorship, and the neglect of human rights. But if the very life of the vast majority is still far from normal, who, rather than the parliament, is to speak with a full voice about it, not just to speak, but to act properly. At the same time, we finally came to realize that attempts to import democracy were unproductive wherever it came from. Its production and application must be adjusted directly in Ukraine, with the long - term, permanent, and the Ukrainian people themselves. Despite all our differences in views and violent conflicts, we have strengthened the practice of parliamentaryism, gained the necessary experience, and would like to believe wisdom and balance. Much has been done by the Supreme Council for a clearer and better definition and a deeper legal framework for the economic and political development of the State and society. The adoption of the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, which, according to the Constitution and other laws, creates a real mechanism for the protection of property and personal rights of natural and legal persons, can be seen in the important achievements of this session. This not only reflects the constitutional principle of the rule of law but also removes problems of practical application of existing legislation in this area. An important step in the development of civil society was the adoption of the Third Courts Act. And the law on the order of election and discharge of a professional judge makes this procedure clear and transparent, that is, democratic. As a logical step towards improving the political system, strengthening multi-partyism, the political structure of society should be seen as approving the Presidential Election Act. This applies equally to the laws governing the election of national deputies and members of local councils. On the one hand, this is evidence of the absence of a background for the organization and the holding of elections in Ukraine. On the other hand, understanding the undeniable fact that elections are the political function of society, the formation of its authorities, not the other way around. The electoral legislation is then always destined to be the result of political decisions and major political compromises between the social forces and the authorities involved in the legislative process. The Supreme Council is practically approaching the creation of a system that will allow for the achievement of the basic objective of social and political transformation, through elections to be able to have a legitimate, legitimate way, with a high level of confidence of citizens to form an appropriate subject of authority and political responsibility, forming a society and parliament. Neither were the concerns and questions about strengthening the foundations of local self - government, the status of deputies of local councils. The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, has opened up serious opportunities for Ukraine to engage foreign investment and environmentally sound technologies while at the same time encouraging reductions in emissions, pollutants and energy conservation in domestic production. And the approval of the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians will help to solve complex problems, balance the development of this unique region. It is to be expected that a number of important tax improvement and tax administration laws will increase tax revenues, increase the government's ability to form the Budget for 2005. The adoption of amendments to Ukraine's 2004 State Budget Act should be taken to an important social event. This is an eyewitness of what can be achieved if we can reconcile the positions of the Supreme Council and the government. A line to strengthen such a course must be maintained and increased. An additional eight billion dollars of financial resources allowed the minimum wage of 237 dollars to be reduced by two months. We now have the opportunity to ensure an adequate restoration of inter-skilled and inter-employment ratios in the salaries of budget workers, to increase on average by 2.3 times the minimum level of scholarships for students in higher education institutions and students in vocational schools from the first July of this year, to fully offset the arrears of previous years from compensation payments and to help and benefit the citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, to increase the amount of local budgets to pay salaries and other social benefits. Since July 1, 2004, the tax benefits of publishing, selling, and delivering periodicals of domestic production have been restored. It is particularly important to focus on the fact that the Supreme Council has promoted a legal settlement of the problem of debt owed to education workers, which has occurred in recent years because of the failure to comply with article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. Legislation in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities has been improved, legal principles have been laid down for the granting of State social assistance to persons who do not have the right to a pension, legislative requirements for the creation of employment in all forms of ownership and management, and a number of normative instruments have been harmonized for the provision of transport, medical and social services to persons with disabilities, and laws have been adopted to improve the material status of persons with disabilities. Starting on May 1, this year, more than 133 million dollars will be added to the payment of each month’s targeted financial assistance to this category of veterans. In view of the merits of veterans of war and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the decrees of the 2005 declaration of the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Indian War, the year of veterans in Ukraine, should continue to be a dominant part of our work, which, in turn, requires a quality new level of cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers. Among the most important legal acts relating to foreign policy are the laws adopted by the Supreme Council on international agreements, on the legal status of Ukrainians, on the ratification of the agreement on the formation of a single economic space, the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border, the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation in the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait. It is only to fill the rules and regulations with concrete content that must ensure the legal and regulatory framework for Ukraine to achieve its national interests both at home and in the world. This is national security, economic autonomy and the growing strengthening of Ukraine's political, cultural and humanitarian influence in modern international processes. I am confident that such an approach will make it possible to finally overcome the post - Radan syndrome, the permanent expectation of different mediators, as well as to try to gain authority and praise abroad from someone stronger than on the home earth and not from fellow countrymen. The increasing attention of the Supreme Council to its supervisory functions is highlighted by the level of organization and the conduct of days of government and parliamentary hearings on the most pressing issues of socio-economic development of the State and the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. There were 12 such arrangements during the session. And add 2,340 MPs. At the same time, it must be made clear that as a constitutional instrument for the exercise of powers and the exercise of parliamentary control, the parliamentary request has in many cases been levelled, turned into an everyday one, how it should be a social event. This should be based on the principle of a conclusion. We should also say that we lost a lot because of the opposition in the session room. Yes, only to study and examine the situation in connection with the election of Mukachevé’s city chiefs were eight plenary meetings blocked. The problem of the presence of Ukrainian military personnel in the Republic of Iraq and the question of the privatization of the "Crioristali" is also eight ineffective plenary sessions. I'm not talking about other, so to speak, petty reasons and reasons that led to parliamentary riots and divisions. For help, in one plenary session, we have an average of 14-20 questions. As I will say, of these and other symptomatic and illustrative examples, there is a steady impression that the Supreme Council is constantly being pushed into distractions with a view to keeping it, and then the whole country, in tension, in counterproductive opposition. And we often take that and point to it, instead of immediately and clearly identifying the position. The Supreme Council cannot and should not go any further by justifying such actions as a whole arsenal of motives. We have to take a position after all. And if we continue to do so, it will mean that we want to do so, not because we are forced to do so. And now for the generalization and traditional performance of the Supreme Council. During the session, 231 laws were passed, including 59 laws in a new and updated edition. 55 interstate agreements have been ratified, 451 have been chosen by the general and specialized courts. I think it is necessary to make a few fundamental comments on the statistics. It was not justified for us to say that the adoption of the law, and even more of the code, would immediately improve the situation in the relevant sphere of social being, and at the same time the forgotten axiom: the law would at best protocol the political and economic reality. I say that to those who see in all calculations the industry of the Supreme Council and blow it wherever they can, especially abroad. It is virtually impossible to form the desired political and economic or productive relations at the expense of the pre-legislative process if the latter is preceded by basic phenomena, mainly the system of economic interests and financial resources. The problem is that, as it were, the development of valid laws produces regulations, regulations, instructional letters, all of which are required for enforcement. And by the power of influence at the local level, even laws are markedly superior. Because the legislator is high and far away, and the prominent boss next door and his influence is direct and tangible. Normative acts of this kind are amassed in geometric progress. Collections of normative documents are morally aging or at the printing stage. The problem with problems is systemicity and the quality of laws. True, we are often reassured by the fact that the low quality of laws is compensated for by failure to do so, not by laws, but by lawyers. However, the implementation of the Lobby Laws is provided with an accompaniment, starting with the development and especially after they are signed. And not because of the absence of any law, but because of its quantity of excessiveness, collegiality, and contradiction of the laws in force. Up to half the financial resources of the state are still in the shadows. Over-tinted political market and judiciary. If there had not been such a massive theft of government property and resources, there would have been no mastery of oligarchic clans, permanent washing and export of national capital. After all, there would be no such amazing proportions of poverty. We have created a society that is largely based on relationships, lukewarm schemes, and extortion. The fact that significant costs are sitting in the pockets, more specifically, in the accounts of financial and industrial groups and clans, does not increase, but weakens, rather, within the limits of power. It's finally meant to be understood by today's and future leaders. Because these people are not interested in creating a free market, because the exploitation of state power in their own economic interests is a guarantee of their prosperity, against the fact that their country, Byron said, is “screaming with pain”. Sooner or later, Ukraine will come up with the idea of an antioligartic coup, which Ukrainian and foreign analysts are increasingly talking about. It's best to do it as soon as possible, without revolutions, shocks, civilizations, and for starters to separate business from power and at all levels and in all its branches. In this connection, I feel it necessary to speak of another measure of the work of the Supreme Council — the measure of our political wisdom, tolerance, ability, and ability to compromise wisely. It's the Supreme Council that's the place to compromise. If you want it, it's a kind of common Ukrainian round table, at which political, public forces are obliged to seek understanding. Sadly, many of us still have a deep - seated cold civil war syndrome, a desire to slyly strike a political rival, humiliate, and even destroy it morally. In such circumstances, tact is accepted as weakness, simplicity, and openness, such as simplicity, impudence as courage, unceremoniousness as perplexity, and this is well illustrated. By the way, there's a lot of people in the session room. From time to time, there was a hot breathing of hatred in this room, and scenes of black Cossack councils came to mind that were approaching a great ruin. We are struck by the virus of impatience and intolerance, a disease that is very dangerous, capable of destroying a social organism. A disease that is treated only with common sense is a desire to compromise. To sharpen the problem of relations within and outside parliamentary walls. It doesn't make me feel like I'm the first to experience flashes of collisions and dissatisfactions for real reasons, unthinkable motives. It is the authority of each of us, the authority of the highest representative body of the people, the authority of the country, the belief of people in our own state. In a relatively short period of time, the fifth session of the Supreme Council had a number of important international events of global importance that would affect Ukraine’s fate. First of all, I mean the real geopolitical breakthrough, the integration into the European Union of our closest neighbours and the three former Soviet republics. We have not yet fully understood the significance of this event, which has brought the European Union’s space to Ukraine. Our new status should be carefully assessed from the perspective of Ukraine. We need to align our relationship with the Council of Europe first. Let's be honest and honest about it, it's no accident that we have problems with a number of international organizations, such as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, NATO, the OSCE and others, in the area of human rights, freedom of the media, the rule of law. After hearing the question about Ukraine, the PARJE sessions were held 15 times. We're only leading Turkey 23 times. In fact, monitoring has been removed from Turkey. It is likely that we will have to live to hear Ukraine eight times before it is monitored. It turns out that with all the major economic successes demonstrated by Ukraine in recent years, the state of transparency and democracy of a number of social processes is at a level that is not consistent with established European standards. This is not only to be admitted, but mainly to take comprehensive measures to get the country back into the river of democratic development on a legitimate basis, which excludes any shadow technology. Moreover, the Supreme Council is many. The Supreme Council has done much to deepen interparliamentary ties, including through new forms of interparliamentary cooperation, commission, forums, and assemblies. Five meetings of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission on Cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation have already taken place. The Ukrainian-Lithuanian Inter-Parliamentary Forum and the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland began their work. Similar institutions are formed with the parliaments of Romania, Azerbaijan, France, Armenia, India, and China. Dear colleagues, during the fifth session, there were signs of a thunderstorming of the campaign from the election of the President of Ukraine, even though it officially starts tomorrow. Around the figure of the future head of state, passions are suppressed, political battalions are unleashed, with close attention from foreign nations and international organizations. When we are in the midst of political passions, by personalizing questions about the next president's person, we are hardly talking about the principles on which the internal and external policies of the state will soon be built. Then, as it has a definite meaning. It is important to have foresight, and on the basis of what has been done, to become a new quality. We also need to answer another question that concerns society. Can the new President stop the spread of such dangerous phenomena as corruption -- the main volume of democratic transformation -- from increasing economic and political power in oligarchic clan groups, such as the humiliating nation of social inequality and the poverty of the people. Because all of this increases the denial of millions of citizens in the justice of Ukraine’s state social system, causing significant damage and national interests, its international image. So the presidential election is a moment of truth for Ukraine, for the Ukrainian people. And we must not allow any administrative, economic or political force to impose on the people their will, to influence the outcome of their will. The Supreme Council must do its utmost to ensure that the 2004 presidential elections are fair and transparent. The prime minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, spoke about this. It must become a social organizer and supervisor of the presidential campaign, a social and political dialogue organizer of a qualitatively new level in order to ensure broad-based understanding and progress. To be specific, I see these elements of the process. First. Identifying and agreeing with the candidates for the presidency of fundamental values on which they will build their programs and carry out appropriate practical activities. Such basic values, which are recognized and acceptable to most people, will ensure stability in the country regardless of the outcome of the elections. The other one. A responsible, I stress, responsible signature by the candidates of an agreement on an honest electoral campaign that should be based on competing approaches and positions that will allow people to deliberately choose a project for Ukraine's future. The Ukrainian people should see the perspective, and the presidential candidates should demonstrate the ability to think as people think, to see the problems as they see them, and, above all, to show the ability to conduct policy. We must not allow the four months of electoral competitions to be filled with hostility, filth, and other humiliations. Each candidate should remember that it is possible to win the election and lose the country. Third. The Ukrainian society must be oriented, not to a particular winner, but to a normal life rhythm after the election, without the triumph of the winners over the winners of the Ukrainian performance. In turn, the candidates for the presidency should not view the presidency as the ultimate goal of their political strategy, because that, again, will be a defeat for the country, at least not a victory. Honorable National Deputies, Ukraine enters the four-month period of sovereign interseasonal, and the Supreme Council has a unique opportunity to finally stand up, to become truly the Supreme Council! I underline, indeed, the Supreme Council, the senior representative of the Ukrainian people and the expression of his will, as a priority organ in the system of government. Our task, our strategic line -- the return of people to the Ukrainian Parliament, the establishment of parliamentaryism as the foundation of guaranteed democracy. I hope by faith, and I hope that today, after this session is over, we will not break into political barricades from which it will be difficult for us to return and find understanding. I hope that we will find a common language because we represent the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-02-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, before the session is closed, may I remind you that according to a decision of the Supreme Council from July 5 to 9, the national deputies work in the districts. You know that according to the Constitution, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin on September 7th. I declare the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be closed.
