ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:26]] Registered -437 There are 437 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of King Viktor Mikolaiovich of Ukraine. Let's welcome him and wish him well. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. The factions and groups will be asked to submit their statements. And I will, in the meantime, if you don't mind, announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies Tarasyuk, Karmazin, Zarubinsky, only 27 people's deputies, to the President of Ukraine regarding the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 29 November 2003 on measures to improve the effectiveness of the State's external political activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:47]] For-182 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:09]] For 185 The request is not accepted. There is no decision to refer a request to the President. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the eviction of Stržov’s citizen from the dormitory of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. Andria SKILLY to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for a proper assessment of the findings of the monitoring by the Ukrainian intelligence authorities of the opposition nationals while abroad, according to General Valery Krawchenk. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the mountain settlement of the village of Upper Rakhov Region of Zakarpat. Paul MATIJENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the pension of the disabled and the state of compensation payments to the citizens affected by the Chernobyl AES accident. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of a scientific and practical conference on the problems of the forest complex of Ukraine in connection with deforestation in the Carpathian region. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the withdrawal of Bills Nos.4002 and No.4368 on alternative forms of accounting without registration. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations by the executive branch of the current Ukrainian legislation on the pension provision of military personnel and victims of the Chernobyl disaster. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-supply of agricultural producers with credit resources and an increase in the rates of mineral fertilizer leave. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of funding for the National Music Academy of Ukraine by the name of Petr Tchaikovsky. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on prejudice against the unjustified rise in energy prices and utilities. Olga HINZBURG to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the numbering of pensioners who have retired under List No.2. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Communications and Information Committee of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to reorganize the State University of Information and Communication Technology and the withdrawal from its membership of the Kyiv College of the relationship with the return of the legal personality and the previous name, the verification of the lawfulness of the administration of the college property, the creation and current activities of the university, the selection of its leadership and the resolution of the conflict situation with the college status on the basis of the requirements of the law. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of a financial contribution to the village of Neresnik in the region of Zacarpathia, which was 103 years old. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a conflict situation that has arisen in connection with the baseless actions of the High City Head to increase housing and utility tariffs. Vadima GUROVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the relevance of the continuation of the state shareholding company Krutprom. Roman TKAČA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request of 26 December 2003 for failure to comply with Supreme Council Order No.882-IV of 22 May 2003. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the situation that has arisen around the transfer of the Pocavian Sveto-Uspeneska laurea complex. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to reduce retail electricity tariffs for consumers in the Plain region. [[RED, BROAD, ALEXIUK]] Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of eliminating the garrison hospital in Lutsk. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt for the provision of the Zolitani State Veterinary Medicine Technology. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, concerning the repayment of the debt for the operation of the gasification of the villages of the Kyiv region. Mr Eugene HIRNIKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds for the completion of the building of a culture in the village of Mižgir of the Bolykhiv City Council. Mr Stanisława GURENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitr Tobacco, on the appeal of the resident of Pervomaysk regarding the violation of constitutional rights, the current legislation on the issue of guarantees of social status of the disabled liquidators of the Chernobyl AES. Victor PETROVA to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the ground of cancelling the Ministry of Education and Science order of Ukraine for the transfer of the building of the Wynnick State Centre for Scientific, Technical and Economic Information to the University of Kiev. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andrija Klava, for the unjustified excess of natural gas consumption when the centralized hot water supply was stopped. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko on the problems of the development of the scientific farm “Pioner” of the Novovorontsov region of the Hersonian region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts presented in the newspaper “The Truth of Ukraine” of February 5, 2004 on bribery and the theft of state funds by the former Director-General of the Ukrmorport State Association. [[PAUL, SENJUK, AND OTHERS. Total 8 deputies]] Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the return of property illegally owned by the former head of a collective agricultural enterprise. Petrovsky Kirovograd district. Gregory OMELČENA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case and on the responsibility of the Deputy Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Svetoslav Piscona for the abuse of a position of service for useful reasons and for the serious violations of the requirements of existing legislation that he has imposed on the Attorney General of Ukraine. Andrija SKILLY to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the surveillance by the Ukrainian intelligence authorities of the opposition of the people abroad, according to General Valeri Kravchenk. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the limited liability association “Energoprom”. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the issue of bringing the guilty officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv-Svetoshin region and the District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region to justice in criminal proceedings against officials of the open Kyivsilmash Association. MICHELLE TOMMEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of information on the receipt of a series of political parties in Ukraine from former leader Irak Saddam Hussein. Igor REZNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the issue of the violation of financial and economic activities by the Administration of Engineering and the development of the Odessa coast. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of allegations of new circumstances and crimes committed by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Prosecutor's Office and forensic experts in the Kharkiv region in the investigation of criminal cases against those convicted by the Kharkiv District Court in 2001 as well as the delay in investigating the circumstances of the theft by officials of the law enforcement authorities of assets sentenced to more than 6 million dollars. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of the Office of the Prosecutor to the National Deputy of Ukraine regarding the refusal of a criminal case for the death of a person. Boris TARASJUKA told the Ukrainian Attorney General of the Security Service of Ukraine Valery Kravchenk. Valeria Assadcheva to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper investigation of the fraudulent activities of the private firm Kyiv Academy of Eurobusiness. Gregory OMELČENA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the offence of criminal offence against President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine, whose actions are signs of serious and particularly serious crimes (the kidnapping of journalist George Gongadze, which has caused serious consequences; the attack on the life of public official Alexander Jelyashkewich and the deliberate infliction of bodily harm on him; the illegal use of special technical means of non-voting information; the taking of bribes on a particularly large scale; the abuse of power or service; the abuse of power or official authority; the aid of individual government officials in the acquisition and destruction of state-owned currency in a particularly large way; the abuse of power or service; the abuse of power or official authority; and the contribution to the Supreme Council of the Republic of Ukraine. From the position of President of Ukraine in order of impeachment. Group of National Deputies of Ukraine YAROSLAVSKY, SANDLER to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence on the facts of corruption among officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal dismissal of a member of the Torres Town Council of the Donetsk Region. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Attorney General of Ukraine on debt from wages and dividends to workers of the Open Shareholders Association of the “Bikowska skloszavod” in the region of Žitomir. YEUGENA JOLJAKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the acquisition of peasant property by means of the fictitious bankruptcy of the collective agricultural enterprise “New Life” in the Kyiv region. Igor JEREMEYVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the delay in a criminal case for the attempted murder of a villager of Derno Kivets region of Volinsk. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delaying the investigation of the death of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, the national award winner Taras Shevchenk Leonid Mihajlovich Viseslavski. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on providing information on the measures taken to address the problem of the restoration of legality in the case of the alienation of the “Sumi” hotel in Suma. Vladimir PUZAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the issue of the allocation of the “Tavria ” car to the inhabitants of the city of Kyrovgrad. Vladimir PETREN to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the speeding up of the appeal against the decision of the Zarah District Court for the solicitation of the inhabitants of Suma. BONDAR Group of People's Deputies, SLABENKO to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime under the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the facts of corruption committed by officials of the Volin district government, published in an article in the newspaper “2000”. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the request for the illegal sale of 25 hectares of land on the territory of the international airport Borispol. Mr DEMOJINA to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision “On measures to improve the pension insurance of citizens” with a view to improving the calculation and recalculation of pensions in accordance with the Ukrainian Law “On mandatory public pension insurance”. Igora STAŠA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the reform of the military part A1181 of the Stryski garrison of the Lviv region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the refusal of the Ministry to assist the Ukrainian National Deputy in receiving the official translation of the UN document. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to improve the working conditions of the garage staff at the University of Internal Affairs of Kharkiv and to test financial abuses by the university’s management. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine on the violation of rights to acquire property from former employees of the collective agricultural enterprise Tarasovka in the region of Kyiv. PENALTIES TO THE U.S. Department of Health regarding the allocation of the Mini-SWAY SURVEY machine to the Republic's Children's Hospital in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Stéphane HMARA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the failure of members of the authorities of the interior of Chernigova to respond to acts of vandalism committed on the grave of Mikhail Kotsubinsky and to ensure the proper protection of the historical and cultural monuments. Ms Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Ministry of Culture and Art of Ukraine for assistance in the renovation of the Staromlinov National Museum of the Donetsk Region. TO THE U.S. Minister of Internal Affairs, Alexander’s task is to implement the current legislation of Ukraine’s Chief Inspectorate of Internal Affairs regarding the improvement of the housing conditions of the group II war. YEUGENA YULTIA to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine regarding the organization of the road transport in the city of Vishneve Kyiv region. Anatolya MATVIENKA to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster regarding the organization of a service investigation into the outbreak of fire in the attic of the Uzhgorod Children’s School of Art. Gennady RUDENKA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the problems of reducing small-scale rural schools in the Poltav region. Paul SILCHANA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the reduction of hours of instruction in Ukrainian in secondary school. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the redeployment of the A-3940 military unit from the village of the city-type Yemeni Region of Žitomir. [[SAVIC, POLAND, only 15 national deputies]] Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the failure by officials of the department of State Executive Services of the District Department of Justice of the Odessa District Court. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for obstacles to reception and delaying the consideration by the local courts of the Jovkovsky and Yavori Districts of the Lviv Region of court of the actions of pedagogical workers in connection with the payment arrears provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education. The Jury of ORBS to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the ground of blocking the execution of the decision of the Zacarpathian District Court on the ground of invalid approval “On the permanent termination of the authority of the municipal territorial election commission”. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the non-sustainment of life-sustaining conditions for residents of the city-type city of Novojevnitski Žitomir Region by the local authorities and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Ms. FOMENKO to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the development of a mechanism for the use of fuel costs. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the illegal involvement of the Security Service in the activities of the Ukrainian Independent Mining Association. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Head of the National Committee of Natural Resources of Ukraine on the construction of artesian wells in the city of Bila Church. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about violations of Ukrainian law by a limited-liability "Study 1+1" company. Anatolya MATVIENKA to the General Audit Authority on the violation of effective legislation by the Head of the Audit and Control Department in the city of Uzhgorod Zacarpatski district. To the Prosecutor of the Lviv Region, Vladimir JAVORIYSKE, for the gross violation of Ukrainian labour legislation, is directed by a limited-liability association of the Yevrospon district of Lviv. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Court Chamber in the civil affairs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the gravity of the Zarah District Court of Suma for the correct retirement of Antonini Balaban. Gennady RUDENKA to the Head of the Poltava District Administration on the illegal actions of employees of the Mirgodtecommunergo company of Mirrod Poltava district. Alexander RADIO to the Head of Kharkiv District State Administration to ensure compliance with the requirements of Ukraine’s laws regarding the preservation of the history of the “Brother’s Grave of Fascism Victims of 1943. ” Igor GrINIVA to the Kiev City Head on the situation at the Kyiv National Economic University around the congregation of monthly voluntary contributions to the student travel ticket. JAROSLA KENDZYORA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the use of the Schools of the Rodatian High School of the City of Lviv Region for political provocations organized by the Party of SDPU(o). Jaroslav KENJORA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the construction of the former head of the Lviv district tax administration in the village of Ruda Koltiyivska in Zoločina and unauthorized logging. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat to the lives of people living in emergency homes in the city of Broda Lvivské region in connection with the failure to comply with the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the liquidation of extraordinary situations in the city of Broda of 26. 10th 2001 No. 1436 and the extension of some of the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 11.04. In 2004, number 509. The questions that have come have been made. There's more, Your Honor, I'm sorry. Some of them asked questions, I just didn't see them, I'm sorry. This is a request from National Deputy Simonov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for evictions from the premises of the All-U.S. Public Organization of the Union of Chernobyl of Ukraine, as well as Simonov's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of the right to benefit from work under harmful conditions. There are still questions. Request by Anatoly ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the program of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 16.01.2003 "The school bus at the regional level". And Vladimir YAVORlSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the use of the forged seal of the Ukrainian National Writer Association by persons who try to break up and discredit the writing organization. That seems to be all, dear colleagues. Let's move on to representatives from MPs and factions with statements, reports, queries and information. The word is from Alexander Kuzmuk of the Faction of Political Parties "Industry and Entrepreneurs" and "Trudov Ukraine". Prepare Ještenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, honorable ships of the state! We all know how far the shipbuilding industry has been in the past 12 years. Since January 2002, the Law on State Support for the Shipbuilding Industry of Ukraine, approved by Parliament, has saved the high - tech industry from a complete disaster. Recall that this law pursued the goal of restoring the capacity of shipbuilding plants by reducing the costs of shipbuilding, completing the cost of circulation, and creating conditions for investment. The tools for achieving this goal have been selected from the available ones: 45 companies, which are involved in the technological cycle of shipbuilding, have been granted the right to open individual accounts for the operation of advance payments to customers, as well as credits from banks that are not subject to unconditional write-offs, including by file. In this way, the state gave the industry a five - year extension to pay off the accumulated debts to budgets and trust funds. In addition, the listed companies were exempt from land tax, exit duty and value added tax, equipment import operations, and equipment for further use in the construction of vessels under contract contracts. What did this give us? For 3 years, the law has been marked by serious economic downturns. Production resumed on the feet. In a few words, during this time, every bracelet that the State has received, which has been invested in the boatbuilding benefits, and this amounted to 130 million dollars in three years, has given 7 dollars of real return. The Chamber of Commerce and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and the Labour Ukraine have been thoroughly familiar with the materials of this meeting, with the reasonings that the Government of Ukraine has argued. Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as proposals made by Minister of Industry Alexander Neustroyev. Our decision is clear, the faction supports the Industrial Policy Ministry's initiative to continue the preferential shipbuilding regime because this method of resuscitating the competitiveness of the industry has demonstrated its effectiveness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u3	Ještenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, prepare for the Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u4	Estenko, the Communist faction. Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! As you know, according to the calendar work plan of our Supreme Council, since the 20th time, the deputies have worked in the districts. According to the work plan of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Deputy Committee Chairman Kravchenko Nikolay Vasiljevic and I, as a member of this committee, were to meet with the collective of the locomotive depot of Yasinovata Station on 27 February. And you know, I'll tell you frankly, the distinguished people's deputies, the attitude towards us, MPs, on the ground, shows this meeting. We have come to this station to examine how railway tariffs are being introduced, to consider the complaints of workers who have come to our committee and personally to us as deputies, to the meeting, warning the city and station authorities in advance. Instead of organizing the meeting, the head of the locomotive depot of the Podlipans, Dmitri Viktorovich, did everything he could to bring him down. According to the selector, workers were not expected to meet with the people's deputies until they were dismissed. Such behaviour by the railway managers indicates that the direction of the road does not listen to the vote of the deputies, does not create conditions for them to work, so that the issues brought to the meetings of the Committees, the Supreme Council, are addressed directly on the ground. If he thinks he's okay, we know that there are many problems at this station that need to be addressed. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you: to make a parliamentary request for the conduct of the management of this locomotive depot, the Donetsk Railway, to the Minister of Transport of Cyprus. Well, we understand why this attitude towards us Communists is why there will be elections in the Donetsk region of the Moran constituency of 61th, which will take place on 7th March. What pressure is being exerted on the electorate by the management, the administration, the business leaders, we have seen in the meetings with the voters who have come to us. We turn to the electorate: support Mogilevsky Igor Petrovich, the first secretary of the Moryanov Rajkom party, who is indeed doing a great deal of work, despite obstacles from the administration that travels through the areas, meets with voters, and we see that there is support for him. Vote for Mogilevsky Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u5	Gregory Kaletnik of the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine of the United States has a word. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u6	Grigory Kaletnik, 15th constituency, Vinnitsk district, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Perhaps we cannot find in the entire world a land that has experienced as many wars and robberies as our Ukraine has experienced over the centuries. The history of our country after the crown is filled with brilliant victories and bitter defeats in the struggle of the Ukrainian people, which, by standing up for their original Orthodox faith, exercised the natural right to create its own only democratic, independent, national state. Learning and training have been taking place since childhood, since the dawns of the past have caused the future to grow. And for those who teach, and for those who learn, there will be tremendous help in this -- I'm sure -- the 6th volume of the political history of Ukraine in the 20th century. A powerful copyrighted group of leading native scientists, including our fellow national deputies, have systematized all sources and the recent national history, culture, and spirituality, have made it possible to reach their homeland with special force, to regain a sense of wealth and loss, joy and concern. For the sake of the higher interests of national life, I offer an inseparable combination of politics, science, and morality. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture, provide one copy of this important edition of the library of State Higher Education Institutions at all levels of accreditation, as well as district, urban, district, district, and regional libraries. That's a little over a thousand times the sum of about 250,000 dollars. The source of funding is provided in Bill No. 5191 of March 1, 2004. Because the intellectual uplifting of the people has always been the means of true knowledge. This is also necessary in view of the integration into the world’s intellectual space and the design of the modern system of coordinates against the background of the entire historical painting. This will ultimately contribute not only to the preservation but also to the strengthening of political stability and the influence of a reasonable political line, both in today’s conditions and in the future. We need both strength and wisdom. I hope your colleagues will be supportive. And another problem. The Ukrainian folk saying, "for my sake, I am beaten" describes the situation in which many veterans, disabled persons and participants in the Great War of the Homeland have been granted benefits on Winnitzina. The point is, in the area, they substituted money for fuel for coal. Most of those who received such gifts failed to receive proper benefits for various reasons and were forced to buy wood or insects at their own expense. I would like to emphasize, at my own expense. Because it is strictly assumed that housing subsidies must take into account benefits for the purchase of solid fuel. So, the arsonist didn't get coal, and he lost part of the subsidies: he was at war -- 150 bracelets, he was at war -- 60-70. Will these least protected people, their children, and their grandchildren have respect for and understanding of their actions? So I ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to view my speech as a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! As we went to the Supreme Council, we all promised to provide for the needs of the electorate, to protect them from abuse and lawlessness. That is how such an aberration and lawlessness is now taking place in Chernigovishka. As of January, the city of Sokolovím has raised its prices for water supply by 50 percent, by 30 percent, in the area. It is not enough that Chernigovishka has to carry the President's stamp, so the blacks have to endure even less leadership. On February 13, socialists took the city’s council’s approach to lowering tariffs. The mayor expressly refused to sit at the negotiating table. On February 27, 7,000 nuns in despair blocked the traffic in the city. The mayor is silent, the governor is silent, neither the government nor the President intervenes. Prices were raised not by 5 percent, but by 50 percent, without any explanation. And finally, neither the prosecution nor the monopoly committee intervened, and the 2nd prosecutor's office opened the case on the fact that the movement was blocked. Where were they before? Why not examine the prosecutor why the prosecutor did not check the city’s mayor when he gave the power plant into the hands of businessmen for a penny. Now he's getting three expensive electricity for the city's utilities, why isn't he testing the corruption of a city mayor who's driving a car with commercial structures? And criminal cases have been opened in relation to citizens who have come out to defend their interests. I believe that the President and other leaders of the state need to travel to Chernigovina, not to drink beer and drink alcohol with their environment, but also to help their fellow countrymen. I find it a shame when the President in Kharkiv cares about the prices of the Kharkiv community services, forgetting about the blacks, we forget in the session hall that in Kiev, 100 percent of the prices of subway traffic were raised. We forget about Sumi, we forget about other regions. I believe that the time has come for us, honourable colleagues, to make a decision, to create an inquiry commission of the Supreme Council on the verification of legality, to increase tariffs in all regions of Ukraine. Because we, the socialists, did our own investigation: in Suma, in Chernig, in Kharkiv, 30 percent higher municipal tariffs, no one needs it. But this is what our electorate needs, whom we must look after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u9	Victor Pinzenik of the faction "Our Ukraine" has a word. Prepare Gregory Omelchenka from Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u10	A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" about the situation in the social sphere. In recent weeks, the government-controlled media has been actively promoting the success of the socio-economic policies of today's government. Customers of this campaign have little concern about what is actually happening in a society that concerns tens of millions of our fellow countrymen. And the result of agrarian politics was a rapid rise in the price of bread and other foods. No one can understand the unique Ukrainian phenomenon: why does the growth of the economy bring down real pensions and lower minimum wages? Nothing more than a pension abuse turned into a so - called pension reform. By manipulating the average wage, the authorities added the majority of pensioners to a meagre 5-10 bracelets, much lower than consumer price increases. However, the conditions for special pension schemes for the chosen have been preserved and improved. The situation that has arisen requires the faction "Our Ukraine" to take steps to remedy the social situation. First. To approve the real subsistence minimum, to adopt a bill to phase out the minimum wage to the minimum wage. The other one. Set a minimum wage of 240 dollars to restore inter-employment ratios in the salaries of budget workers. Third. Eliminate discrimination in paying for the work of education workers, health professionals, scientists, cultural workers, and accept public debt under the Education Act and start paying this debt. Four. Cancel the government's decision to illegally reduce the pension base to discuss pension reform issues on the Government's Day and the following pension adjustments and to establish the only pension rules for all citizens. The relevant laws on the resolution of the issues have been introduced by the faction "Our Ukraine". We insist on their urgent consideration. There's a cost in the budget for that. They're just hidden by the government. We pay attention to the people's deputies and our citizens: the 2004 budget in real terms was lower than the actual budget last year. And where are billions of dollars spent since the economy grew? The faction "Our Ukraine" requires a review of the 2004 budget. Taxes should be used to solve social problems, not in the pockets of individual businesses. The head of the Viktor Yushchenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u11	Gregory Omelchenko of the Julia Timoshenko bloc. Prepare Kirill from the People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u12	Grigory Omelchenko, Yulia Timoshenko block, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Association of Ukrainian Officers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question in my speech: did you not think about what lies behind the so-called political reform aimed at democratizing state authorities and governments, and whether there is a so-called political reform with a smoke screen, which when it unfolds, we will be thrown into a dirty provocation of power with total political destabilization, mass disturbances of public order, provoked by power and the introduction in Ukraine of a state of emergency, with the exception of presidential elections this year and the undetermined timing of the presidential elections in Ukraine? Think about it, please. The other one. Why is it that the authorities are in such a hurry and do all of this? In fact, it's hard to imagine a criminal, mafioso, gang-related organization reforming itself to bring itself to trial. If you open the Ukrainian Criminal Code and read the definition of "organized criminal organization" and transfer these signs to the executive power of Ukraine, you will see that we have an organized criminal organization at the state level led by President Kuchma of Ukraine. You voted today on a parliamentary request where the facts of President Kuchma's committing specific serious and particularly serious crimes were presented. These are the conclusions of the interim commission of inquiry and not one, but the previous. And so far, no criminal case has been solved, although there is good reason to file a criminal case against President Kuchma of Ukraine, but that is the prosecutor's mandate. It is painful that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not want to examine these facts by initiating an impeachment procedure and to draw certain conclusions that the Supreme Court of Ukraine might have reached. It is a shame that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has so far failed to hear the report of the commission of inquiry that I am in charge of investigating the circumstances of the murder of George Gongadze and other serious crimes. And we didn't hear a report from the former Attorney General and today's report on the results of these criminal investigations. I'm making an offer, and I'm asking you to support me, to start an impeachment procedure in this room, to hear a report from the commission investigating the circumstances of these cases and the Attorney General. And to think about what the criminal authorities are preparing in connection with the so - called political reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u13	People's MP Kirillov. It's from the People's Choice MP. Prepare Vladimir Nechiporeka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officers, distinguished voters. That we're all about bad and bad. And that's not how we do it. And we don't have a story like that. And we're not making history exactly the right thing to do. There are in our country's history those dates that both Communists and Democrats and Capitalists love, and the events of the last month have just confirmed that. Let us remember how we celebrated a joyful festival with you on February 23 each year. Which gradually became like March 8th -- International Women's Day, and February 23rd -- International Men's Day. I met on this day with many veterans of the Lugansk region, many of the Lugansk region's military, and when I said, "Don't we make this day a state holiday." The people were delighted. So I put in a bill number 5207 to make changes to article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, to add numbers and to the words of February 23 to the country's Protector's Day as a national holiday. I look forward to the support of my colleagues. And I think we're going to do a good job with you for our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u15	So, are we going to vote now or what? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u16	Why don't we just vote now and then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u17	Vladimir Nechiporak of the People's Government MP group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u18	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th constituency, Hmelnichtina, faction of the People's Rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak out on a matter of great concern to the entire Ukrainian people today and to the entire Supreme Council, which is the question of amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the election of the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, today, a bill that is submitted by a majority to the Supreme Council on closed-list elections, which is proportional to closed-lists, exists in the world today in only three countries of the world -- Israel, Albania and Estonia. Are we four of you trying to get on this road? Are we developing or are we going down? Therefore, we cannot accept this system, this system violates fully the rights of Ukrainian citizens. The article of the Constitution states that every Ukrainian citizen has the right to choose and has the right to be elected. If we make such an election law as a Ukrainian citizen can get out of the country. He cannot become a member of a political party that will go to elections. So this system for the people of Ukraine, for Ukraine, is unacceptable, is anti-national, and we condemn it. We, the people's deputies of the People's Government faction, the majority of us and the majority of the majors, are making a proposal: a proportional system should be, but it should not be included in the Constitution. Constitutional law and electoral law are different things, my friends, they're different things. And the Supreme Council has the right to adopt the Electoral Law whenever and by 226 votes. And in the Constitution, it's criminal to introduce this law. The law will be proportional, perhaps. But on the open list, by sending candidates from the parties to the districts, to 450 districts. At the same time, it's not possible to ban self-extinction from citizens and from the collectives -- it can't be forbidden to people today. Otherwise we'll be carrying anti-national politics with you. So we ask you not to adopt this law by various methods and means, to create a working group, to work out exactly the kind of law that is necessary for the people and Ukraine, and to adopt it in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the word has been given to the national MP Petrov in accordance with the Rules in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request to the Attorney General’s Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u20	Victor Petrov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Vinnitsk region. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected voters. It is not possible to accept replies to parliamentary requests for the collapse of the sugar-sugar industry. The Cabinet of Ministers, in the face of the Deputy Prime Minister for the APC, Ivan Kirilenko, did not understand what he had hoped for by giving such an answer. The women of Winnichina, sugar Donbass, know their business. More recently, more than six million tons of herb were cultivated before the so-called reforms, processed at 38 factories in the best possible time, and produced between 800 and 900 thousand tons of sugar. The sugar-sugar complex accounted for 30 per cent of the entire economy and was a reliable source of budget replenishment. The integrated industry development programme for 2003, referred to in Kabmina's response, has not only been reversed by development but has not even stopped the decline. Last year, 1 million 700,000 tons of breeches were raised in the Vinnic region, and sugar produced 180,000, which is less than the 2002 season. There were 22 factories, two less than in 2002. In general, Ukraine, the largest exporter of sugar in Europe, produced six million tons of sugar, today producing one and a half million tons of sugar, which is less than its own needs. Over the years of reforms, five sugar factories have been destroyed and cut in scrap metal. The Fascists destroyed three factories during the Great Homeland War. What are these reforms? What kind of an effective owner is this? In all, 192 factories in Ukraine were destroyed and cut into scrap metal 60. The new owners have a profitable business. The factory is bought for nothing, bankrupt, cut for scrap metal, neither smell nor seed, and profit is guaranteed. Who gave the right to destroy the people’s good created by several generations of our people? The workers of the Mojsu sugar factory write to the Supreme Council: "The Ukrainians have also received our factory, which for our district has been a breadwinner for 150 years. Our owner bought a factory for 1 million dollars at a book value of 10 million. Who gave such an opportunity? In recent years, the factory has been reconstructed, and this is a modern enterprise. Our owner purchased several more factories in Ukraine. The wrath has already been turned into ruins, the roadside has been transformed, and now the turn has come to ours. Who is responsible for this? Or is that the goal of authority? And who has population employment programs because it's the only industrial enterprise in the area. Where are those positive economic distortions that our President is talking about so often?".. Considering I didn't get reasonable answers from you. Please again, I appeal to Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine for the withdrawal of the Sveklossachar industry from the crisis, the Attorney General of Ukraine Vasileva for the criminalization of those responsible for the destruction of sugar factories and Chechtovu for the dissolution of treaties whose owners have not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Talks from factions, parliamentary groups with queries, reports, information have been completed. Let's get to work, according to the schedule of meetings. The section deals with ratification issues. Announcing to Review Draft Act on the denunciation of the Treaty between Ukraine and Georgia on the prevention of double civility and the elimination of already existing dual citizenship. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that we have considered and discussed this issue, but then we postponed it to the committee's proposal because we considered it during the election campaign in Georgia and agreed that we would make this decision after the presidential campaign. I mean, do we need to start discussing this document again? None. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian law on the denunciation of the Treaty between Ukraine and Georgia on the prevention of double civility cases and the elimination of already existing dual citizenship. Please vote. [[10:56:20]] For 307 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being announced for consideration. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that we have discussed this issue in detail, put it to a vote, it has not been supported, but the Cabinet of Ministers has officially reiterated its proposal to make a decision. At the same time, there is a draft decree by the national deputy Karmazin that his draft law is unacceptable. Despite any contradictions, however, I propose that we consider this question in this way. To give the word to Yuri Carmazin, let him argue his position, and then we will be determined by vote. Is there no objection? Please, Yuri Carmazin. We've already discussed this, you'll speak, I'll give you my word. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, I ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to assign the Chief of the Apparatus to conduct a service investigation and to bring to justice officials who have registered a draft that violates the standards of font size and print quality. Is that what they're giving us special papers so no one can read? And I'm asking you to bring the guilty to my attention. All the documents that come now from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not stand any criticism of the font. You see how they're made. I took them on purpose to show them all. I think it's a humiliation of the people's deputies. As to why did I make a decision and ask questions about postponement, about the inadmissibility of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement? I motivate her on the basis of articles 3.5. 1 and 3.5. 2 Rules because this document must be seriously studied because it conflicts with the provisions of part three of article 27 of the budget code. Even the lack of agreement between the center and the lender, which is an integral supplement to the ratification agreement. Subject to the ratification of this project, there would have to be a solution to the questions about possible warnings about air photographs of Ukraine by foreign aircraft, the first question. As for the technical expertise that's being purchased in order to preserve the secret of information contained in the register, that's the third question. Regarding the previous amendment of the laws in force. For example, the State Secrets Act, the Land Code, part of the State's functions as enterprises, and so on. It's interesting how the oligarchs will ratify tomorrow's first question today, but tomorrow they'll ratify it, Thursday, because the equipment is foreign, and then the information contained in these computers about the real estate of every Ukrainian citizen will be available abroad. Probably. The number of non-departures will increase. Well, I'm not worried about them, I'm worried about Ukraine's national interests. And it's Ukraine's national interests that require the Ukrainian Court of Auditors to do as close as possible, I don't think it can be two months, less than two months, an expert on the draft law on the ratification of the Loan Agreement. And until then, I think we've done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Have a seat, please. All right, well. Now, one minute. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. I ask you to sign up, there is now a need, obviously, to return to the consideration of this issue. Let's take 10 minutes to get to the show. And now I'm asking Anatolia Danilenko of the government to argue the position. There's a record. Then now, those who have signed up are on the board. Please, we've got a light on the board. Now we're going to look at it. Please report again, once again, to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for this act. In three minutes, please, then we exchange our thoughts for 10 minutes. Three minutes is enough, you'll be the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u24	I won't be in three minutes, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u25	Well, come on in, please. As far as it's concerned, we'll be listening to you for an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Today we are considering a draft Ukrainian law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The draft act provides for the ratification of the Loan Agreement. The main objective of this investment project is to acquire land ownership rights by farmers through the completion of the State Program for the Issue of State Property Rights to Land Areas, the replacement of certificates for the land share of pie, and the establishment of a system for the State registration of land rights to real estate in the form of a State land cadastre. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has designated the State Committee on Land Resources and State Enterprise as the project’s responsible contractor. the State Land Cadastre of the State of the Land of Ukraine, which was created under the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 1997 of 1355 on the Programme for the Automation of the State Land Cadastre. The monitoring of the targeted and efficient use of funds within the framework of the project relies on the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, with which, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, a contract for the transfer of funds and a contract for the transfer of funds has been concluded by the State and the DPC. credit. The project funding system provides for a fully transparent and controlled procedure for coming and withdrawing funds from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, as well as a hard mechanism for financial monitoring and reporting on the movement and use of funds. The project covers the entire territory of Ukraine, will contribute to economic development and will have a positive impact on the socio-economic situation in the country. The project will be implemented for eight years, from this year to 2011. The repayment of the loan is calculated for 20 years, including a five - year period after the principal amount of the loan. The repayment and servicing of loans under a project excluding $75 million,780,000, which is to be provided to the State Land Inventory Centre under the conditions of subcredit for the creation of cadastral. the system under component five. It will be implemented at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. The total cost of the project is $350 million without paying for the loan line. That's 5 million 340 thousand. The project is financed by such sources. The World Bank’s loan of $195 million to $55.7 million; the government’s contribution to tax and assembly payments is $15 million, 720 thousand, representing 4.5 percent; the Land Cadastre Centre’s contribution is $139 million,660,000, representing 39.8 percent. The project consists of seven components, namely legal and institutional development 4.4, which is 2.3 percent. The other one. Public information - 2,670 000 programs are awareness of our citizens' education. Third. Professional training is 2,920 000 to increase the qualifications and training of personnel is the Kyiv National Agrarian University, Odessa, Kharkiv and Raven. The issue of state-owned land rights is 84,350,000 or 43.2%. The fifth component is the development of the national land cadastre system — $75,780,000. The sixth component is supporting the restructuring of agricultural enterprises -- 15,810 thousand. And the seventh is the implementation of Project 7,230,000. So 82 percent are going to cost loans directly for the issuance of state acts, registration of land rights for peasants for whom this process will be free, I want to repeat, and the creation of a state register of land rights and real estate with the application of modern information technology. The numbering of congregations and interest on the savings amount of the loan - 195,130,000 dollars is as follows. The first is a one-time assembly of 1 percent, which is $1.95 million. The second congregation is necessarily 0.75 percent of a year of the principal amount of the loan that remains outstanding at the date of payment — a mere 5,340 thousand. Next. Percentage. Well, let me get this straight, because this is a matter of national importance. If. Please. Interest on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and outstanding at the time of payment is determined for each interest period, which is equal to the base rate, i.e. Liber plus the total payment of the current interest. So the expected arrival and repayment of the loan shows that over the course of the 20 years, $257 million needs to be returned, of which $111.4 million will be returned to Minfin directly by the State Land Inventory Centre, on account of its own activity for three years. If you look at the terms of this loan, it's acceptable and convenient for Ukraine, because the pressure on Ukraine's state budget in 20 years is going to be 26 million 700,000, or if you count it one year, that's one million $335,000. The project provides for different methods of purchasing costs based solely on competitive principles. Dear national deputies, the most important results of the project must first be the guarantee and protection by the State of the constitutional rights of natural and legal persons to land and immovable property. Second, the optimization of public services from documented confirmation of property rights of natural and legal persons by reducing the value of public services compared to the existing situation. Third, the guarantee of mortgage lending, particularly in the agricultural sector of the economy and the development of investment activities in Ukraine. Fourth, the improvement of the budgeting system based on the use of a thorough market assessment and the taxation of real estate objects. This will allow you to move away from the tax to the added value of adopting a real estate tax law. And we figured out earlier, it's going to be more than $2 billion in budget revenue, if we translate it into our Ukrainian economy, that's about 11 billion dollars. Sixth, the development of land relations, the promotion of land reform and the development of the real estate market, including the legalization of infrastructure services in this market, the promotion of effective and rational use of land resources and support for environmental protection measures, the improvement of statistics on the availability of Ukraine's real estate. You know what market we have today and what speculative approaches to building a real estate market we have in Ukraine. And here's an increase in government administration in the state land cadastre. I finished my report, finished my speech. Thank you for your attention. And if you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, would like to give an answer to the statement before me, Mr. Carmazin's distinguished national deputy. Can I?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u27	Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u28	The main remarks of the National MP, Mr. Carmazin, read: "We cannot accept this norm because, in the course of procedure and legislation, it is necessary to publish this issue." The point is that the 2004 budget is adopted, and article 27 states the following, third paragraph: "The laws of Ukraine that affect income formation and the tax portion of the budget should be officially published." That's true, because if we look at the 2004 budget, the standard is set out, the amount of $31 million,674,000, in a special account of 27 million, 600,000, that will be directed at doing the work that I've been talking about. So I think these fears of the National Deputy Carmazin and his remarks are unfounded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u29	Once there is insistence, please sign up for questions. Let's take five minutes to ask. Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine. Kirilchuk Eugene will be next to ask his questions. On the board, please. I'm sorry, on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u30	Thank you. 160th constituency. I would like to have an honorary report to recollect it. I'm here. To recoup, please refer to the total amount of this loan and its component, including the percentage that goes to advisory services that are generally lent by the World Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u31	Thank you. The total cost of the project is 350 million. In this number of loans, 195 million. These dollars mean the loan -- from the total Ukrainian contribution of 139 million 660 thousand -- is the contribution to the center of the state land cadastre, i.e. the calculated property. For public advisory information, 2 million 670,000. Public Information. Professional training is 2 million 920,000. Legal and I.D. development is 4 million 420,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u32	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u33	The burden on the Ukrainian budget for 20 years after the return of the loan is 1 million 335 thousand a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u34	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Fatherland Party, Eugene Kirilchuk. My dear reporter, you must know that you are being listened to by peasants and thought of what a benefit it would be for them. You clearly didn't say that today what amount of money they're going to spend on making their property documents, what amount they're going to have, will come out of their pockets and pay them. What percentage will these same people have to pay for this tax relief? So don't even explain to the MPs, because half of them don't understand what you're saying, they don't understand what you're talking about. Should we support you or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u35	Thank you. First of all, this issue has been discussed in the 5 profile committees, and all the materials have been distributed at the right time to the people's deputies, and you have the opportunity to get to know them. And the second. First of all, what you put first is very true. The issuance of state-owned land rights to all peasants and the registration without alienation is expected to take place free of charge. I repeat, it's free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u36	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Anatolia Stepanovich, please tell me that any attempt to solve this complex, not even economic, but socio-political and even criminal problem, such as issuing state-owned property rights to land, the major MPs will confirm this, every day the post office is filled with such letters. Any attempt should be welcomed. And the welcome rate is also 1 percent of the year, which is a beautiful banking interest, of course. But I am interested in such a question. In the event of our ratification of this agreement, as I know, most acts have already been issued, how much time do you need to fully resolve this extremely complex problem since the ratification? How much for yourself, for your department of state, do you take the time to let all of us know and those of us who are listening to us today should know that we are ratifying the treaty, after which the problem will be completely removed within that time?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u38	Thank you for the questions raised. I'd like to divide it into two parts to give you an answer. First. The activity program, based on the ratification of the agreement, plans and plans for the creation of a single system for registration of real estate rights, that is, land areas and what will be on it. The point is to stop all of those, as you said, speculation and abuse. And the second. Today, we have a comprehensive technical documentation on the issue of State acts. That's about 2 million. We only stand for one thing: funding. So there's an opportunity in a short period of time to finish this, literally, job. No, not two. I don't think it's more than a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u39	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u40	Thank you, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Please tell me, does your claim that all these benefits you mentioned would be free of charge to the landowner? Because the next generation of landowners still have 200 million. Turn it back. And this 200 million. We are now adding to the existing 14 billion. This debt now amounts to over $300 per person alive. Should we increase this debt? That's part one. And a second. Now parts of the docking area require them to privatize 350 grand. On what basis is this based? Why are people skin-streaking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u41	Thank you. I want you back in history when we've been looking at changes and additions to the Land Pay Act. And if you have a conversation, there are more benefits today than we pay from the land tax, more than two billion. It's just the design of the registration system, the sorting and control of their efficient use that will enable us to calculate our credit for the provision of advisory services, transactions. You see how the market is going today and it's forming, and all of these costs are coming into the state budget as it needs to be. First of all, this project is designed to do these tasks. Now, let's talk about prices. There's a draft decree in the Cabinet of Ministers on the number of pay-per-view services. And we've been preparing, unfortunately, entrepreneurial structures today, and we're coming out of your complaints, and they're just, today we're strengthening this work, and the Cabinet of Ministers is taking a decision from the Cabinet of Ministers, where they're going to approve the payroll of the services, and they're going to do the same thing, so there's no price for it, as you say, 350. Because it is the formation of this system, coming out of the project that we are going to approve today, more faithfully, the adoption of the Ratification Act, that will allow us to reduce these abuses, bring them to nothing. And let's look at another direction: the real estate market, how it forms. We have to get him out of the shadows. This is the project's task. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u42	Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u43	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, it is certain that the ratification of this agreement will improve the status of the issuing of State acts. But I do have two short questions for you. About a month ago, we postponed, more faithfully, we did not pass here the Law on State Land cadastre. And it's kind of. Question: Will it affect this covenant or not? And the second question. Today, about 60 percent of the government acts that have already been issued in Ukraine are some tens that have already been produced but have not been registered. So I have a question for you, and to answer our audiences, is there going to be an amount out of these funds actually for the registration of these state acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Roman, for the questions raised. First. When the agreement was formed and the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the World Bank was signed and prepared, it was not based on the draft Law on State Land cadastre. The other one. The issue of state documents and registrations and those prepared documents are all to be made at the expense of this loan. So the villagers won't pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u45	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u46	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I would like to support once again Solomon Yuri, who asked about the organization of payments for this privatization of the area, because being in the district of Hersonian and all of Ukraine, and in Lviv, and in Kirovgrad, and so on, I see that before the faction of the Socialists there are many letters that 100 to 200 years of family living in this area, and then we have to pay that kind of money. But besides, I'd like to speed you up to this government decree. Besides, I'd like you to explain in the second table what is the purchase of goods according to national shopping. What's the legal term "shopping" in national law, please, in paragraph two?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u47	I've always been your friend and I'll stay. Thank you, Stanislav. The first question about prices. It was just the subject of a specific subject, I'm sorry. It's a tough conversation. Two weeks ago, on Saturday, there was a joint meeting under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Hersonian Region of Anatolia Petrovich, Stanislav, I want to tell you where the huge amount of money they have was and they will come to the top of the local budgets. I'm talking about the Hall of Havens, Skadowsk and so on, and you know that. It means the second question, shopping, research and so on. It's about defining those enterprises, those institutions that know the economy the most well and know the procedure for doing one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u48	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u49	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Anatoly Stepanovich, I'd like to hear the answer to a few questions. Is that a loan that has partial and commercial credit? Is there no commercial loan in this position? I mean, I've heard that we're going to have computers there, and so on. Is this in this position or is it not? The second question, I didn't hear clearly. How much is this loan paid? And the third might be the most difficult question. You know, we've already approved a lot of these loans in the Supreme Council. And then the funds that Ukraine was getting, they were usually, you know, they were going somewhere, they were being partially stolen, and we don't really know the fate of those loans. So how will control the use of this loan be set up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. First. It's not a commodity loan, it's a financial loan. The other one. What percentage? I've already said that. A commission one percent, 0.75 is a reservation and a liber. So this is a 20-year loan. The pressure on the government budget, the load, we calculated, is going to be $1,335,000 per year in the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u52	Control! Control! These costs are not going to be paid to Derkomzem, these funds will be paid to the Ministry of Finance, and after the formation of the act on the execution of one or the other, these materials will be sent to the Ministry of Finance, and only after that will the Ministry of Finance count the cost of the work done. I mean, it's hard to control. The Ministry of Finance, Dercomme and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u53	Yes. Anatoly Stepanovich, thank you. Time's up. He has a word for his co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u55	The co-report is chaired by the Committee on Finance and Banking, Homutinnik Vitaly Juryovich. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. At a meeting on 17 February last year, the Committee of the Supreme Financial and Banking Council reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, submitted by the President of Ukraine, which was signed on 17 October 2003. The main purpose of the document is to support the extradition of State acts to land ownership. The project provides comprehensive assistance to landowners for 8 years. It is also proposed to register land and rights in the automated database of the State Land Inventory. As has already been reported, the cost of the project is $350 million, of which $195 million is a loan. It was also reported that the loan would be granted under the standard terms of the world bank and the interest, in our view, was negligible. I would like to point out that funding is already under way from the State budget for the issuance of State land acts, and the longer we will not accept ratification, the longer we will delay, the more we will finance from the State budget and not use the credit resources provided by international financial organizations. I would also like to point out that people are now receiving State acts for their own money, not waiting for full funding, especially in the urban area. Having therefore considered the matter before the Committee, the Committee decided unanimously to support the ratification. I would also like to emphasize that the relevant committees, namely the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on European Integration, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, expressed support for the adoption of the bill. Supports the adoption of the document and the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council. I therefore reiterate that the Committee strongly recommends support for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u57	Are there any questions for the reporter? What about the co-conspirator? Please sign up. On the board, please explain. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Wow, how many people have been enrolled! Andrew Schlell. Is there a school?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u58	Yes, yes, there is. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I want to ask you about a private firm on the State Committee that's being created. Did the committee know about this when considering this so - called favorable loan? And have calculations been made? Of 195 million loans, 55 million will have to be paid plus eight million -- that's the advice and other services that will be provided, plus the commercial loan. So Ukraine will get about 100 million dollars, and no more, out of that loan. And the minimum percentage is multiplied by the amount of time given to it. And I doubt that inflation will make this project more convenient. And in general, what's the benefit of this project, I haven't really figured it out by now, no matter what your report is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u59	If you are referring to the State Land Cadastre - I understand - who will carry out this activity, we have had observations on this issue and we have moved this issue separately to the committee to take two weeks - and to study what this organization is and how it will implement the price policy on public acts and much more. That's why we even had a meeting in Goskomzem, watched. And the main questions that have been asked about how price policies for State action will be formulated have been answered. The answer is that the Cabinet of Ministers sets a limit on the value of the State act, i.e. the State Land Inventory will not be able to determine the price of the State act at its discretion. It's a major issue that we've been worried about, and I think it's going to concern people, because the cost of it is important. As to why I should accept, I reiterate that most of the population now, without waiting for this loan, acquires land acts in order to secure their property on the ground. Although under this credit line, a State act is granted to a person without payment for the implementation of this project. That is why the process is already under way, and we need to adopt it now in order for it to move in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u60	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u61	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Anatoly Yuriovich, you have noted in your co-report that this loan is mainly about issuing State acts, about ownership of the land. I'm asking you to confirm for the transcript that that's not true. 43 percent of this loan is for this purpose, and it is unknown who will receive it, and the remaining 57 percent are for car, computer, office furniture, information, counselling, and so forth. Please confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u62	I answer your question. The bulk of the loan goes to the establishment of the State Land Inventory. In order to establish the State Land Inventory, it is necessary to acquire computer equipment, software needs to be made, space and cars, and so on. That is, it creates a State body, the State Land cadastre, which operates in all countries and accounts for land acts that will be handed over to people. And there are calculations, I can give you more. Well, they're completely open in the committee, and those that we've asked for more, because we've studied this very carefully and on almost every line in every position. And most importantly, the acquisition of any, say, car or computer or any consultation will be carried out with our side of the Ministry of Finance and the international institution and international tendering will be held, in our view, with a transparent procurement procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u63	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u64	Dear Vitaly Yuriovich, I'm continuing my previous questions. Please either confirm or correct this question. However, 84.5 million out of that loan go to purchase and 100 percent to foreign consultants. There I read the draft contract, there's no tender. Maybe I misread it. That is, there are tender conditions, whether it is necessary for foreign consultants and foreign equipment. That's the first one. And the second. Have you been counted by your committee, or have you been given such information as how many thousands or hundreds of thousands of acts can be given free of charge to peasants at the expense of this loan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u65	Regarding trade, each position, I would like to point out, regardless of where each dollar is spent, will be through competitive bidding. There are several competitive tendering procedures. I'll give them a ring. There are national competitions that we hold; there are international competitions that are held with the help of an international bank. These are the two basic tender terms. And all the articles will go through competitive bidding under such conditions. With regard to which consultants, the main consultations in Ukraine will be held in areas for those who will receive a State land act and there will be clarification of what this is necessary, how they will benefit from it, how to obtain it, and so on. If I'm not mistaken, about 2 million bracelets are allocated to these consultations, but if I have to be more specific, I'll take a look. And we're going to choose 24 consulting companies legally from our home countries, in each area a separate company that's going to do this work. That is why we think that there will be no abuse here, which has already been said that counsellors from foreign and very expensive will impose upon us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u66	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u67	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vitalia Yuriovich, I have a specific question for you. He's crediting 350 million. The service rating for each service is $762 per service, corresponding to the value of the contract 'Basic Indicators' appendix. In addition, it is granted the right to change the cost of paying services, taking into account the profitability of the project. Please confirm to me that the cost of service will be for issuing acts of $762. That is, when we say today that people pay 300 dollars for a land act, the project today gives us the right to correct the State Committee itself on land for services, as indicated in paragraph 5. So people are going to have to pay $762 for one land act. Please confirm that. Thank you. And explain anyway, because Danilenko has a bad legal terminology, which is "national shopping," which is not the answer to Mr. Nicolanek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u68	So, with regard to your question, I can say that we have paid considerable attention to how procurement is to be conducted, the most important of all, how much this act will cost. And if it is not possible for the Power to receive a loan, the price of the State act will grow and regulate it by Goskom and the State Land Inventory. So I repeat that the Cabinet of Ministers sets a limit on the value of an act to be issued to a person. It will be issued free of charge to a man.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u69	Yes, thank you, time is up, Vitaly Yuriovich. Yes, please point out to the board who signed up for the performance. There's a lot going on -- 14 people. Give me a minute 15 even if we limit it to our esteemed colleagues, to our discussion? So, 15 minutes of discussion. There's a name on the board. Andrew School, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'd like to bring you back to the work process, because the attention that I want to stress on this, with the permission to say, is the bill that's being proposed, which is to ratify the bank's loan, here, in principle, I want to read the name. Because we talked a lot and things didn't move. Because he issues state-owned land rights in rural areas and develops the cadastre system. The development of the cadastre system is great, it's needed to develop, it needs to be stacked, it all sounds perfect at the first stages. And the loan seemed to be worth $195 million. And it takes $395 million, the rest is from Ukraine. But let's look at it differently. What's the credit for, what's the credit for? Ukraine is unable to find funds for a computer base, or there is a shortage of specialists in Ukraine to inform the population of the need for earth cadastration. Let's substitute the word cadastra, this is a description of the value, the value of this land. That's what cadastral means. It's a national program that we need, but why bring a bunch of specialists in here and pay them for their money? So this brings Ukraine to the third development echelon. It's a definite position. Are we not able to provide ourselves for all that we have to pay Western specialists for? What's the problem? Plus, don't forget that cash will go directly to the development of the cadastre system. 55 million out of 195 is already 140 million, minus 8 million in consultation with experts in different places, two million out of four, then five more to go. Cars, I realize that without cars, you can't create an cadastral. Do we not have the opportunity to provide funds for the purchase of a national product in Ukraine without the inclusion of foreign loans? Why should we divorce this problem for 20 years and keep giving it away? Another question is, if we were to invest in new technology. Another question is, if we were to buy those innovative methods of doing the scientific research that we really need. Ukraine has always been the bearer of new technological processes. In the Soviet Union, she inherited a colossal complex, and now she's trashed, but there's leftovers. Let's develop this, let's not invest the money in something that doesn't move anymore. So I think it's just not necessary and criminally necessary to support the ratification of this agreement, because in principle we have our own resources to solve our own problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u71	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u72	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Albert Einstein said at the end of his life, "I survived two wars, two wives and Hitler." I am convinced that today's generation can say that we have survived one agrarian reform and the reign of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. Why? We're considered an agrarian state. Look here, my dear colleagues and those who listen to us, look back like lightning, free, or even criminal, agrarian reform is taking place today. We stopped at half a word, actually, we only crossed one leg through this transition. And all the time, imitation, imitation. Why? But now every uncle will tell you that this is done in order to delay land reform as long as possible. And after that, when the situation matures, you quickly throw this land into the market, and it's bought up, you know who. Those who already know what to do with it but never work on it will, of course, not be alone, but will be turned by unrighteous capitals. And you know those names, you know who has that money. And our Ukrainian peasant is going to be hired again, actually on this earth. It would seem like such a good initiative. We're offered, but you have money to make people buy their own pies, which are mostly paper today. Someone sold them for a bottle of vodka, someone just got dumped by charlatans who went through villages and stuff. Well, it would seem that there is nothing to give up such money as a free loan. You know, but on the other hand, dear colleagues, you and I are responsible for whether or not this loan goes. I am today, believe me, under another authority, if all of this were clear and clear. If I believed that this money would go there, to the root system of our village, to that simple aunt who was 3,040 years old, give me a gift, and I would vote for it, on the cologne jars. In this situation, it will be eaten by officials. Much of the money will return to those who lend it. We'll have to pay again, we'll have to pay interest again. And on the other hand, the paradox is that, of course, we need to move the land reform, we need the land to be slow, but it still becomes a commodity, so that it can be mortgaged, and so that the peasant can be admitted to credit. What will he do today — his house or his pig? He could have laid the ground. But on the other hand, I'm convinced that we don't have the right to vote for this bill today, we shouldn't take this loan to our people's throats. We have endured and will suffer more. Today you're going to issue an act, like, 70 or 80 bucks, so let's spend that money there. I say again, society, think about it: we give up herding instincts, we have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u73	Yes, Vladimir Lechchenko, the Communist faction, and Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko will perform instead of Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u74	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! So it has been said that for the past 12 years, Ukraine has been constantly lending money to foreign financial institutions, which, of course, are followed by political ones. Instead, they set their conditions, adjust their trends, demand certain, unnecessary actions for our people, that is, manipulated by the leadership of the state. And our temporary staff agrees with these redacted roles to stay in power for a longer time. In addition, Ukraine’s loans to foreign benefactors are not for economic development but for food. Any loan project is far from specific production or new technology. In addition, by throwing out the borrowed money into the wind, the Ukrainian authorities take responsibility for their return with interest on the future generation. It is fully in line with the above characteristics and the new World Bank loan of $195 million, the ratification of the agreement that we are considering today. In general, it seems that the name of the project is attractive, especially the first part of it, regarding the issue of State acts on land in rural areas. Who wouldn't want to waste this procedure on peasants, but its contents are completely different. Under the dictated foreign structures, a network of state land cadastre was created under the decree of the President of Ukraine in the Dercomism system. Its main task today is to register land ownership rights. It is these organs that have recently been tearing from the peasant 300 to 350 dollars for the issuance of the State Act instead of 85 dollars for the other President's decree. However, the purpose of the above loan is to strengthen the network of authorities that will promote trade in land, that is, to take it to peasants and concentrate it in the hands of money. I say that only 43 percent of the loan will be directed towards the cost of issuing State acts on land ownership to peasants. Another 57 percent, including $111 million or some 600 million of dollars, will be spent on various advisory and information services, car purchases, computers, furniture, and so on in the State Earth cadastre. In addition, the World Bank, in the person of the director of Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia, Luke Barbone, is now directing Ukraine what to do, what to do, what to create. It was after his, in a mild manner, recommendation letter, Prime Minister Nicholas Azarov, who gave the command to the presidential majority in Parliament not to vote in favour of the well-prepared bill on the State Earth cadastre, which she had successfully buried. Our country is not as rich and not as smart as some abroad think to continue borrowing money for food. For days, even Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic admitted it. The Communist faction calls on all Ukrainian national deputies who consider themselves patriotic in their homeland not to vote in favour of ratifying our nation’s unnecessary loan agreements. We have to save the village because it's dying. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u75	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, consider the very question that we are considering. The State Committee, and the State Committee with the Rights of the Ministry, is setting up a private firm, and this private firm is being granted credit. But it's not for development, it's for land distribution. Right -- wrong is the second question. Yesterday, the president is on TV crying like he's just being assigned to break down the power plant. Could there be more shame in this president's speech? He broke the state in 10 years, and then he cries that there's no tractor. The factory, which produced 76,000 tractors a year, produced 86 tractors last year. Today the question is, and Danielenko the second comes out to this rostrum, without being ashamed, across the Cabinet of Ministers to extend this loan. Credit is needed, but not credit is needed, dear friends! Have we had any national shame for the Earth Code?Oh, my God! What are we looking for, a new national shame, after the village has been demolished, and with a bag around the world, are we looking for bread, searching for sugar, looking for meat?Oh, my God! Are we looking for a company today that will sell the very roads in the land? The most national thing we have today is land, it's space of life, it's not just plowing, sowing and cleaning -- it's space of life. Today, he's speaking from our financial-banking committee, and he's reporting that it's so good. I was on the committee. The committee supported me 100 percent, and we turned it down. For some reason today, the Cabinet of Ministers is again bringing this matter to the meetings of the Supreme Council. I think your honorary colleagues, the bitter experience we've had with you, the bitter truth that we've ruined the agro-industrial complex. The bitter truth is that we broke the industry. Now, let's look at whose hands are the factories and factories whose hands are the energy, whose hands are the finances, and whose hands are we handing over what else? Earth! Whose hands do we hand over? So I don't think you should take sin for granted. We have no right to vote. We have to reject this bill and go back to it if we need it to be passed on to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u77	Yes, Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the SDPU, please. Is there a Kaletnik? This is the last speaker. True, we still have Sokirko here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the adoption of such a law gives rise to very conflicting thoughts. They each have a life of their own experience, in their own practice, and perhaps a practice that exists in the structures of our state, but nevertheless I would like to suggest that, really, if it is to be managed by such funds, a private structure, let's write in the law, "Get private structures from this money!".. But if this is to be managed by the State Commission and its structures in place, I don't see anything wrong here, that we're all those people who don't have anything to do with the right to rule the earth, we have to find ways and that's a good way to help these people form their legal right. So all this development is going to be done, all the programs, our specialists, not the foreign ones, as it sounds in this room, and so the salaries and costs for these jobs will go exclusively to our people, it's jobs, it's our people's wages. The other one. The cost of these works in the preparation of technical documentation, the issuance of acts and the introduction into the register system is not more than 60 dollars, and this is the case. For humans, this will be completely free. So I would like to complement this project only by putting control of the use of these funds on local authorities and especially on local authorities. And we can also add the position that the use of funds should be carried out by the State Commission in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Issues. And so it will ensure both transparency and the impossibility of all the negative phenomena that my fellow national MPs have been talking about. Thank you for your attention. I'm going to acquit people to vote, national MPs, for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Time's up, but there's another one down there. Sokirko. I'm asking if there's a point, maybe a minute, to our colleague Sokirko's remarks. You don't? Then from the Assadchev Committee, the Committee on Budgetary Policy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u80	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll just give you some information. The point is that this loan has been included in the budget for two or years now, or the government has given it, and it's also accounted for as much debt as possible, and as part of the Ukrainian side in that loan. So there won't be any problems on the budget side. And it might say that, of course, like every budget spending, it will be controlled annually to the extent that it pays. So this process is going to be very transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! They're all here. Who signed up. Just a minute. Everyone's on the list. Well, respectable colleagues. 30 seconds of motivation, please. Baranovsky. Sulkowski and Igor Tarasyuk
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u83	Ah, Yukhnovsky, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u84	I don't agree with Tucken when he says that Danilenko isn't ashamed. Danilenko is ashamed because he's red, he's ashamed of this bill. The money they take, they'll all be stolen, created by private firms, on cars, tables, that sort of thing. Costs, the loan granted to Ukraine, will be paid twice by the farmer, the first time he will pay for the loan, and the second time he will pay for the act himself. So if there was another scheme, respected colleagues would not be allowed to form.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u86	It's based on creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u87	Yes, please, Sulkowski. I'm asking for motives, motives, respectable colleagues. The performances are over.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! You know that the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has supported this decision and recommends that it support today's vote. And I want to say thank you the other way around. He's being seduced today, Mr. Danilenko, and one and the other committee, I think it's very shameful and wrong. If we vote for this bill today, it will benefit both the peasant and the whole state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u90	That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u91	Please, Yukhnovsky. All right, good fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u92	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I also want to confirm that the agar committee has considered this issue, studied it carefully, carefully analyzed the agreement. All I have to say is that the agreement is prepared at a high professional level with proper financial and economic justification. It's not about buying land today, it's about creating a land registration system. If we talk about the shadow market, we don't have to create a registration system. It will be impossible to deal with this phenomenon in the State. Besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u93	Yes, respectable colleagues, positions determined, time. 30 seconds literally, because now the time is running out and the break will be over. We need to get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you to the people who have expressed their position, thank you for your support. Literally Alexandra Mikolaiovich Tkachenka. Cadastre Center, created by Cabinet Order 1335. This is a state institution. And thank you, Baranowski, for saying red, eat Ukrainian fat, go less sailing, and you won't be red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u95	Honorable National MPs. Tchachenko's replica. Well, calm down, you've taken the floor off the line, now you've got the line. Please calm down, Alexander Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I don't think we should take to heart the sin of the one they're aggrieved for today. It's not Anatoly Stepanovich, he's a performer, he's a blind performer. The point is that he is behind the people who will use it. He'll get a penny and millions will take the others. So we have no moral right to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u97	I am putting to the vote, please note, the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. [[11:59:33]] For 212 Document rejected. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take another vote. The factions, please. We have one ratification left, it doesn't call for one document. "Our Ukraine" - 70; "Regions of Ukraine" - 21; Communist factions - 1; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs "Trug Ukraine" - 35; SDPU - 35; "People's Government" - 18; SPI - 0; Yulia's Block Timoshenko - 8; "Democratic Initiatives" - 12; Agrarian Party - 1; "National Choice" - 0; NDP - 8; non-fractional - 6. Dear colleagues. What? Vladimir Leschenko mistakenly pressed the green button because it was against this document. He's just asked to let me know. Dear colleagues, we have a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on cooperation in science and technology. The committee considered this document, there are no warnings. Do you have a warning? One minute, Carmazin. Let's vote and take a break. One minute, there should be warnings from the committee. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherhood Defenders, Solidarity, Yuschenka block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to what is currently being allowed in international agreements to do so. For example, it was done in Kiev on July 8, 2003, in two copies, each in Ukrainian, Arabic, and English. All texts are authentic. If differences arise in the interpretation of texts, the English text is preferred. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, when we consider such questions, I would like us to be either full or then let us be given that absolutely accurate translation, so that there are no other problems and so on. And in general, as to what such a deal is needed, even an article of the seventh, which foresees the costs that may come out, which will be budgeted, I have no doubt. I just wish we Ukrainians weren't second-rate citizens. And please do this to the Ministry, please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon on Cooperation in Science and Technology. Please vote. [[12:02:30]] For 310 Decision taken. A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes. Well, 32. So it's up to 12 o'clock, 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u100	Please take your seats, we'll continue our sessions. Yes, we would like to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, in a new edition, registration number 3757. Reporter and co-reporter of this bill is a member of the Committee on Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! The need to pass the prosecutorial bill is due to the fact that, according to the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Ukraine's application to join the Council of Europe, our country has undertaken to change to some extent the role and function of the prosecutor's office. As a result, a bill on the prosecution was prepared. But in connection with the reform of Ukraine’s political system, the previously drafted bill was rescinded for further development, as some fundamental issues needed to be addressed constructively. Taking into account the comments received, this bill is presented to you. First of all, the matter involved the appointment and release of the Attorney General. With Parliament's consent to appoint the Attorney General as President. His release is decided without such consent. It doesn't make sense. Therefore, article 15 of the draft stipulates that the Attorney - General of Ukraine is to be appointed and dismissed by the Supreme Council as President of Ukraine. Accordingly, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 122 of the Constitution was introduced. Life has proved that it is appropriate to keep the authorities of the public prosecutorial office responsible for overseeing the observance of laws in the state. Second, the National Deputies in the Legislative Initiative also introduced a draft law supplementing article 121 of the Constitution, which provides for the provision of paragraph 5 to monitor the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms. Observance of laws on these matters by government authorities, local authorities, their officials, and officials. This position is interpreted in article 1 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. Thus, as the Council of Europe demands from us, only the prosecutor’s oversight intervention in the protection of human rights is envisaged. Rather, it is proposed that this body be given a legal function whose nature is determined by the primacy of human rights and freedoms and by the inadmissibility of their unlawful restriction. The supervision of the enforcement of laws by the executive authorities and local self-government authorities in this sense takes on the importance of an additional guarantee of the protection of human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, by valid laws and by generally defined rules of international law, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948 and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Signed November 4, 1950. I would like to point out that the issue of whether or not to oversee the acquisition of human rights and freedoms and of a citizen by the authorities of state and local self-government has been resolved in a mixed manner in committee deliberations and has been welcomed in June 2003 at a conference attended by experts from the Council of Europe, the National Deputies and representatives of law enforcement bodies. And there are reasons for that. Over the past year, over 15,000 lawsuits have been filed by the courts in respect of wages, payroll, pensions, and other social benefits. And it's clear what kind of operationality this is achieved in a slow procedure to solve them in a different order. Another fundamental question is the forensic investigation. There is no doubt that it is necessary to transfer the functions of prosecution to another authority. Of course, this body should not fall under the notice of either the prosecutor or the operational services. The need for the creation of Ukraine’s only investigative body is ripe. But this is the future. As far as today is concerned, the project did not provide for an investigation in the prosecutor’s office. We conclude that, at the first stage, without additional financial costs, it is possible to gradually transfer powers of criminal investigation. Prosecutor's Offices to other bodies entrusted with the task of conducting the pretrial investigation. However, with a view to effectively exercising constitutional oversight functions in the conduct of pretrial investigations and learning, it is proposed that the prosecutor be given the right to exercise supervisory functions in the presence of data on gross violations of legislation: in exceptional cases, to take the matter up to their conduct or to assign an assistant. This position is set out in the project. Regarding other novels of the bill, it should be noted that they all flow from existing legislation, i.e. the draft was brought into line with the requirements of the Constitution and the new legislation. During this time, we received 170 suggestions and comments from scientists, law enforcement and state institutions and institutions of higher law institutions, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the National Deputies in discussing the project on the Professional Committees. I'll point out that we have more than a hundred suggestions and observations. Some of these are out of the question, since they are in conflict with current legislation or refer to the stylistics of sentenceing. It should be noted that on the Committee on Legal Policy, members of the national parliament pointed out the need to amend article 14 of the law on the appointment and dismissal of prosecutors, supplementing it with the words: "in the order established by law." It also provides for a criminal offence against the Attorney General of Ukraine. These suggestions can be accepted. In our opinion, the Ukrainian Pro-Procuratorial Act corresponds to the realities of the present and the Constitution, and it certainly takes into account the standards of the Council of Europe. The draft law on amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine is also proposed in accordance with the proposals made. He would ask you, honourable national deputies, to vote on the proposed projects in the first reading. The adoption of these laws does not require additional financial costs from the State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Will there be questions? I see they will. Sign up. And while it's being recorded, Michael Alexiyovich, it's probably not about change, it's about a new edition, because I see it's not a change, and it's a new law on the prosecution, that's when we get to second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u103	Well, in the extreme case of the Scientific and Expert Office, we were told that in this form it would be added and, so to speak, the whole law and those positions would be introduced. That's a question we asked ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u104	Please explain who signed up for the question. Yeah, five minutes. The miner, after him, is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u105	The miner, the faction of our Ukraine. Dear Michael Alexiyovich, I am pleased to hear that the law provides for step b, i.e. not only an agreement to be appointed, but also an agreement to release the prosecutor by the Supreme Council, but I would like to know whether the next step has been taken. It is recalled that there was a moment when the Attorney General said that he was not accountable to the Supreme Council and refused to report and not talked about it. He said that the Supreme Council could have no effect on him at all. Whether or not the draft is currently under preparation, unlike your position, which was four years ago, the prosecutor's report to the Supreme Council is foreseen and whether the Supreme Council can express its mistrust to the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u106	It's all clear. So, first of all, I want to, because the author of this bill was then a prosecutor, it touches me, and I answer that I didn't say something that the Supreme Council couldn't influence the prosecutor. You won't find it anywhere. But there really was such a case that I presented a written report. Why? It's not the report, it's the information. Because the law did not specify. You then added and indicated in what form this information was provided and the position after my departure from the prosecutor for my successor, Piscoon, was different. He was already obliged to come here and report. This law states that the prosecutor must provide a written report and. That is, to give an oral report also, and the Supreme Council may express to him a mistrust which entails retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u107	Please, Dry, follow him, Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Mikhail Alexiyovich, of course this bill will be supported during the vote, I think it's clear. But what I'm interested in is a question that might not be as much of a legislative norm as it is in the future of this bill. How much do you think the standards of your 3757 bill are in line with the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code? Isn't there some sort of discrepancy that will lead to what we're going to have to do, for example, by working on a proposal for changes to the Criminal Procedure Code so that we don't get into some kind of contradiction? And the fact that the bill and the new edition are needed, I think this is what today does not call into question either the lawyers or the general public of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u109	Thank you for your attention and your expression. What I mean to say is that we have fully worked and is in line with the legislation that is in force today, except for the differences that are in the Constitution, so there is a project that concerns, and he's in the Constitution, first of all the discharge of the prosecutor. You also have this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u110	Please, Polit. After him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u111	Andrew Politt, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Orzhachovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u112	Orzhachowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u113	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Michael Alexiovich! I generally share, I accept all that is in your bill, and I think that the bill is really worth supporting, because today, when we work in places, we can find some kind of interaction between those positions when we need to protect the interests of citizens. However, I have two questions before you on this bill. The authorities of local self - government today are not self - sufficient financially, but again we recommend that they be in places and premises to provide the prosecutor’s office, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u114	So I have to tell you that the prosecutor's office is not funded -- housing and working conditions, that is, premises. So it was and is still what was meant to be provided by local authorities, district prosecutors there, let's say, and so on. Well, in practice it was: if there's any cost savings in this article, we've always helped, you know, all the more, and on Herson, as it was decided. So I don't think there's any difficulty in this, they're solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u115	Please, Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u116	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Mikhail Alexiyovich, here I am looking at the transitional positions of our current constitution, and there is paragraph nine, that the Prosecutor's Office continues to carry out its functions before the introduction of laws governing the activities of state authorities to monitor compliance with laws and to establish a system of judicial investigation. And there's paragraph 13 in five years, you know that term. The Constitution was already adopted in 96. We're on the street right now in 2004. Today, the current Public Prosecutor's Act does not meet the requirements of the Constitution and the Council of Europe, of which we are a member. And the next problem. Tell me, how do you write out your pension insurance in this bill to the prosecution's employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u117	I guess so. I want to tell you that it is absolutely not contrary to the Constitution. Just what we have made is in line with the requirements of the Constitution today. In general, the issue is only about the protection of human rights. And this is exactly what you're saying -- the transition period to the preparation and adoption of relevant legislation -- this is the legislation that is being transposed in accordance with these transitional periods. As far as the investigation is concerned, I've said that, and we're in this position, so to speak. Please, when it's created, it means that the investigation is clear that it's going there, and we're responding to the investigation in this project. We also discussed these questions with you on the committee alone. And you know, the MPs' explanation. I think we're pretty sure the committee supported it. And the pension insurance that we had, we have no other reason to change anything. I'll tell you who worked in the D.A.'s office, I think he understands both the complexity of the job and the workload. So if you'll excuse me, I think we need you not to make a comparative decision, but to resolve the issue of everyone getting a decent pension. Then only demand can be made and abuse can be prevented.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u118	Thank you, Mikhailo Alexiyovich. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We've got 20 minutes left with you. Please, Carmazin, get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u119	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Pro-Procuratorial Law is in fact, not in fact, but also legally, a new version of this law from its first article to its last, to the transitional provisions that are in this law. As he and his approach differed from that of others, you heard about it in the report of the national deputy Potekek Mikhail Alexiyovich. I would like to emphasise what is interesting to us, the people's deputies, for the people of Ukraine, so that the Attorney-General does not become a hostage of some political game. And that's where the students are supposed to be, first of all, the prosecutors, and absolutely everyone in the state. Because it's very bad when a prosecutor is politicized or pressured by certain groups or is influenced by a party. That's why we predicted that the position of prosecutor was incompatible with the position of any public authority, local self-government, as well as with the representative mandate, membership of any party and other political organization. Nor does he have the right to work in harmony with another paid job. In order to specify the requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine to express mistrust, the Attorney General of Ukraine is foreseen and, in my opinion, deserves to be supported by such a reason as to express mistrust to the Attorney General of Ukraine, such as the cessation of his citizenship or the withdrawal of his permanent residence, the acquisition of legal force by an indictment, politicization or other violations of his personal interest in the interests of certain persons of public organizations. In case of failure to perform his duties, in case of violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This, in my view, is an essential guarantee for those, for all the totally political forces in the state from the politicization of the Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as the investigation is concerned, I am sure that this will be the case and as provided for in the Constitution. At the same time, the new legislation provides in article 38 for a third part of the prosecutor's right to accept, or commission, investigations into, any crime on the basis of reasonable grounds for gross violation of Ukrainian legislation by the authorities of pretrial investigation. This is exactly where we are approached by citizens. Because I think we need to support it in the first reading, and then fill it with what comes out of your questions and comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. He's not a reporter. Please, Bezpali. I don't see Boris Yakovitch. Then Suhi. Get ready for Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to apply the term "in due time" to the bill, this is the law under number 3757. It will be fair to say that society has long been awaiting amendments to the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. In my opinion, one reason for this expectation is that in our time in this session room, we have reformed the judicial system, wanting to give some European standards, in a word, wishing better, we have done as always. It was with their hands that they produced, not an independent branch of power, but something imperfect and incomprehensible. Which of the major MPs who had to deal with the judicial system today can tell you a lot about all sorts of weird things. For example, as the court of the first instance intervenes harshly in privatization processes, how can it take a decision in which it obliges specific members of a particular competition commission to vote in favour of winning a particular firm, regardless of any other motive they have. written in law, including the terms of the competition. Such a decision was recently taken by a local court in Kiev. On the fair indignation of many, including the national MPs, the judge can amuse you by saying, "I know you'll complain, but I'm elected for life." And it's a good thing that the Courts of Appeal have somehow overturned that decision. So I support the position of the bill, and I want to remind his opponents or opponents that the only European standards of the Public Prosecutor's Office should not be regarded as rigid rules that define the system, the authority, the organization of activities, the legal or social protection of prosecutors. In addition, the bill states that the status and competence of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office is based on the history of our country, the level of legal culture, customs and the mentality of Ukrainian society. Respectable national deputies, the introduction of this law will contribute to the creation of legal preconditions for improving the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the interests of the State, the strengthening of the rule of law and the rule of law. And last of all, of course, the bill needs further work, that's clear. But what it is presented by the copyright team in the composition, no doubt, of the best legal professionals in Ukraine, of the active politicians in this sessional room, is a surprising reason to expect that this law will be exemplary and serve to harmonize the legal acts governing the activities of the prosecution with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. In this regard, I propose a bill of number 3757 to be adopted as a basis for voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction. Get ready, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u123	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the adoption of a law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act is a requirement for today. We all know very well that, unfortunately, today, the judicial branch of power, in a mild sense, is sick and therefore a host of complaints with which we meet in the constituencies, and this confirms. Just give examples, such as the admission of our citizens to work, the employment situation, the pay of wages, and such examples can be many, citizens do not know where to turn. I therefore disagree with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, with its observation that its adoption will not be possible in its entirety, only after the practical implementation of the measures contained in paragraph 4 of the transitional provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine on the introduction of laws governing the activities of bodies in monitoring compliance with laws. Such a legislative solution is to refer the matter to the prosecution and, to the prosecutor’s authorities, to other legal authorities or otherwise to settle the matter. I'm going to read nine transition points. It states that the Public Prosecutor's Office continues to carry out, in accordance with valuable laws, the function of overseeing public, enforcing and enforcing laws, and the function of pre-trial investigation into the enactment of laws governing the activities of public authorities to monitor compliance with laws. But before the system is set up for trial and the introduction of laws governing its functioning. And because of this, the more organic the requirement of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that the adoption of the draft law that we are considering is related to the need for changes to a series of laws that contain reinforcements to oversee their implementation. on the part of the Prosecutor's Office and, in particular, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, article 250, paragraph 8, article 255. So we're, what, I'm talking to everyone that we've already completed the work on formation and put in place laws that regulate the activities of government authorities on control? No, it's not. So this means that the adoption of the law does not conflict with the transitional provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, I think. So I think it's a mistake and premature that we've deprived the prosecutor's office of oversight and control in due course. In general, I agree with the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office on the comments to the draft law and support that this bill should be adopted in the first reading and immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u124	Thank you. He's a executioner. Yes, please. Get ready for Poland's Cyril.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u125	Kaletnik, 15th constituency, faction of the Social Democratic Party united. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. By enacting the Procuratorial Act and in accordance with article 121 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we're putting a dot on the conduct of pretrial investigations in the Office of the Prosecutor's Office. However, as of today, there are criminal cases in the prosecution's hands, which are investigated in accordance with article 112 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure by the prosecution's investigators. These are, first of all, deliberate killings, rapes, pervasive economic crimes, and high - crew crimes. Who will accept and ensure a proper judicial investigation into cases involving judges, military personnel and similar criminal cases? Any pause in uncertainty and unpreparedness in addressing these issues will result in negative consequences such as the loss of evidence, the avoidance of perpetrators of crimes, the responsibility and commission of new crimes, the failure to compensate for crimes and loss, the substantial obstacles to the establishment of truth in the case. Therefore, I propose that the State’s sole investigating authority be left to the prosecutor’s office. And another problem. Today, there are many cases where the court, going beyond its authority, is considering complaints of decisions made by a law enforcement authority, an investigator, a prosecutor, a criminal case in the civil courts. In doing so, the court, in spite of the circumstances of the case, is obliged by its decision of the prosecutor to cancel the decisions made by the investigating authority, to close the case, to carry out or not to carry out any of the other investigations. In making such a decision, the court is deprived of the opportunity to study the criminal case perfectly and is guided only by the materials provided by the complainants and the explanations given by the prosecutor. At a time when the objectivity of the decision is to be based solely on the evidence collected. This significantly impedes the establishment of truth in the case, and therefore another proposal for law is to prohibit the courts from interfering in the conduct of pretrial investigations, such as the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian CPC, the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, and the role of supervision of the authorities conducting investigations and investigations solely outside the prosecutor's office. Therefore, at the stage of the investigation, the prosecutor is determined in the legality of the decisions taken, he is constantly in charge of the case, he knows the evidence available on the case, checks the reasonableness of the decisions taken, he has the right to cancel them, to issue procurator's papers to address the violations found, and to bring those who have allowed them to justice. The court evaluates the evidence and examines the legality of the decision taken in the case in fact, and if it finds that the investigation was conducted improperly, citizens’ rights were violated, illegal decisions were made, then it makes its decision which has implications for both the investigator and the prosecutor. I'd like to complete this position. And so the faction of the Social Democratic Party is proposing to adopt this law in the first reading and on the basis. [[united]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u126	Thank you. Poultry. I can't see. Then please, Zebravski. Prepare Stretovich. Yes, there is. I'm sorry. Grabrovsky, please. It's Kirilo's poultice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u127	Kirilo Polishtuk, 98th constituency, "Regions", Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national deputies, present! This bill should be aligned with the requirements of the Constitution, in particular article 19, part 2, according to which "State authorities and local authorities are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine". Article 16 of the bill provides for an exclusive list of reasons for possible early release from office as Attorney General of Ukraine. In my opinion, this list is insufficiently exhaustive. For example, what should you do if a person in the office of Attorney General is found to be unaccounted for or even in the event of his death? It may be necessary to provide for a tool to temporarily remove the Attorney General from performing duties under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a criminal offence against him. There is also a need to establish a special order for a criminal case against the Attorney General in the event of a crime. It requires clarification and provision of article 5 of the bill regarding the legal obligation of the prosecutor. Such a rule raises questions about the constitutionality of the procurator’s powers. Moreover, it needs to be clarified that these requirements should be met, since the submission of prosecutors should be considered in accordance with the law rather than carried out as proposed by the bill. They also need to clarify article 51st and 52nd of the project on the legal status and requirements of the prosecutor. An assignment is subject to immediate execution and a requirement for execution within the time limit set by it. So they're actually given the power of judgment. It is seen that it is better to set up a procedure whereby the prescriptions and requirements of the prosecutor are sent to the court and that the court is to be tried promptly or in an extracurricular manner. Clarification requires the title and content of article 71 of the bill "Legal Security of Prosecutors' Authorities". Because such legal provisions are provided by the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of authority by their exercise of their powers regarding the issuance of legislative acts. Surprisingly, the rule is that prosecutors use computer legal programs rather than just programs. But given the need for the changes that today really needs, I will support it for the first time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zebrovsky. Prepare Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for the fact that the bill is being considered in full procedure, or lately, all of us have even the most up-to-date bills being considered for what is called a reduced procedure. Perhaps so that our voters do not understand what laws we accept. We have before us a very important draft of the Law, which should finally change the role of the prosecutor in Ukraine, to bring its functions into the world's democratic standards. This project is a positive development in which it harmonizes, to some extent, the activities of the Prosecutor’s Office with those of the Constitution of Ukraine with the commitments made by Ukraine at the time of its accession to the Council of Europe. However, there are also a number of very serious, in my opinion, points that I would like to make, honourable colleagues, your attention. In the first article, the bill proposes that the Public Prosecutor's Office should be restored to functions that do not belong to the procurator's office in a democratic society, namely, the supervision of the rights and freedoms of the individual and the citizen, the rule of law of the executive branch, the local self-government authorities, their officials and officials, which do not belong to prosecutors in a democratic country. I don't share the view of the drafter of the bill that the prosecutor's office is a legal organization. I think today, as much as we don't blow up the courts, we have an independent branch of power, and the same abuses as in the courts, they're likely to be in the prosecutor's office. Thus, the provisions of the draft Law on the Supervision of Human and Citizen Rights and Freedoms, compliance with the laws on these issues, as set out in articles 45 and 46 of the draft, run counter to the Constitution of Ukraine and do not meet democratic standards. Under the overall supervision of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, there will be a duplication of the functions of other authorities involved in human and legal activities. The list of persons authorized by the Public Prosecutor’s Office as defined in the second project article does not provide for the function of judicial investigation. However, article 38 of the Act provides for the right of the prosecution to accept or assign to the prosecutor under its jurisdiction any crime under its jurisdiction on the basis of reasonable grounds for gross violation of Ukraine's legislation by the authorities of the pretrial investigation. So it's suggested that again, like today, one hand conducts an investigation and the other one controls it. But we know the saying: the hand washes the hand. And if the prosecutor allows gross misconduct in the investigation of a crime, who can control it? In conclusion, given that the time is up, I would like this bill to define a "special prosecutor", a prosecutor who would oversee compliance with the law by senior officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Stretovich's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u131	Vladimir Stretović, Head of the Christian Democratic Union, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the introduction of a new version of the Public Prosecutor’s Law is provided by the transitional provisions of the 1996 Constitution, and in 2001 there was an appropriate cosmetic revision of the law that is in force today. The proposed bill, as I see it, is not in time today, because it foresees a standard that provides for the care and observance of human and civil rights and freedoms, which is still proposed in the draft Constitution. This means that it can be declared unconstitutional in this part. And during the committee's discussion, the discussion of these was about what the drafters said was that the final approval of the law was possible only after political reform and the return to the Constitution as a public prosecutor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that part two of Article 7 is contrary to the Constitution and the current legislation. According to the proposal, any prosecutor may not be brought to criminal liability without the consent of the Attorney General of Ukraine. If we live in this country, I want to ask all those present and those who listen to us. Please tell us, is there a law in Ukraine today or not? I have to say that there is no rule of law in Ukraine. This means that prosecutors have become hostages to political games and are now doing the will, whether it be the governor of the district or the manager of the administration, to suppress those who think otherwise. And the latest developments in the Ternopil region around entrepreneurs show that the prosecution is involved in these political divisions. Of course, on the other hand, if you go to the district centers, to the district centers, and look at the very beautiful specimens that are located around you, to ask whose mansion it is, every average person will tell you, the district attorney built the district, and this is the district attorney, and these are his daughters. And today, the accumulation of this information gives us reason to say that a negative phenomenon, such as corruption, is penetrating the public prosecutor's office from the bottom. For example, a young prosecutor comes into the area and immediately begins to explain what commercial enterprises are doing well, who is making profits, what are they doing? And then the test begins, which is inspired. And the entrepreneur, without any other ability, is forced to give up part of his income in order, as we say in the people, to please the prosecutor. I raise this problem in order to inform you that the rule of law actually provided for is that it is virtually impossible to obtain legal force by an indictment for the resignation of the Attorney-General, otherwise as he will supervise compliance with the laws with a previous investigation into himself. And I point out to those present that the current procurator - general ignores the legislative requirements that oblige him to appear at the request of a committee for meetings, thus violating the rules of the Criminal Code. I'm asking this question in order to raise a question. But I think the time is coming, and we're going to make it sharper. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we're done with you. By Michaela Alexiyovich. Karmazin speaks from the authors of the conclusion. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u133	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I can't help but respond now to the accusations that have been made. At least I think that part of what Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovich said could be told to the Attorney General Vasiliev, I think there's now his first deputy Mr. Kudriavtsev, he'll let him know. I am absolutely convinced that this is a disdain and disrespect for the committees that have, by the way, control functions for non-existence, but this has nothing to do with how you refer to the bill, Mr. Stretovich. So I want to respond to your suggestions, as you say. Part two of article seven speaks of safeguards for the prosecutor. As to the guarantee of being known and giving consent to the Attorney General, then you can attract the Prosecutor. Otherwise, a tax investigator would break a criminal case and attract the district attorney for refusing to let him steal? We're going to be so ridiculous! We've provided guarantees for every judge, everyone, I emphasize. Even because it was appointed for the first time, at a young age by the President's decree, and these guarantees are the decision of this Supreme Council. And the prosecutor has no guarantee of that. Are not such accusations irresponsible? That's the first one. Secondly, you say that the supervision of the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms, the observance of the laws of these matters by the authorities of the state and local authorities, their officials and officials, is unconstitutional. This is absolutely not a valid observation. I'll tell you why. Because if we don't make a new edition, there will be something that now exists. And now there's total overall surveillance. And you're confused, this surveillance is narrowed down very much. This is the first time. And secondly, a very valid legal formulation is being made. We have separately collected and put forward a proposal for a change to the Constitution, where that's how we formulate it, clearly, openly, honestly do it. And we're saying, they're going to accept these changes, then this chapter six is going to work, they're not going to work -- well, sorry, it's going to be erased, it's going to fall out of the project. No one here will do anything violently. But for the time being, when you stand up against the new edition, you stand up for the preservation of the existing system, you stand up against what you want to fight against. And what's in Ternopolis is the disfavor, that in Odessa, that in other cities of disfavor -- both in Zaporozhye and elsewhere -- depends on the level of legal culture. Let's get her up. This requires a new piece of legislation that I propose to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Indeed, the question is extremely principled. Moreover, the issue that is always affecting the interests of both the Council of Europe, and it is very good that one of the co-authors of this bill is the very European edifice of Yuri Anatoliyovich. Undoubtedly, there are problems that lie in that. And the speakers have already called attention to the inadequacy of the Constitution. And so I would ask, in preparing for the second reading of this bill, that I should certainly not be in a hurry to prepare it, but rather wait for a solution to the fate of constitutional reform and, on the basis of whether or not the changes to the Constitution will be made, make the right decision. Therefore, consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, registration number 3757 has been completed. [[new editor]] We will be appointed on the day of the vote. At the request of two factions, the factions "Our Ukraine" and the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, are announced on a 30-minute break. The session will begin at 13 hours 48 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll continue our sessions. I continue the session for 15 minutes. From the factions that took the break, please who? Welder.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I would ask you to listen carefully to what I am about to say. Our two factions -- this is the faction of our Ukraine and the faction of the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko -- demanded recesses, because we received a message that there was another adventure in the sessional chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that you are going to, I say now, a distinguished majority, honourable deputies from the Communist faction, to vote on the decision that was discussed yesterday. I want to remind you, Adam Ivanovich, that there is a regulatory norm that determines what issues may be voted on Wednesday. And if I'm not mistaken, it's Wednesday today. So in order for you to make this decision that you're trying to make on an adventure, I want to remind you that the only way to do it is if you register a draft ad hoc change to the Rules. And that's not all. After that, there should be a normal conclusion, the conclusion of a profile committee. It seems to me that by 2:15 you will not be able to register such an ad hoc amendment to the Rules. And I'm sure you won't be able to call a meeting of the Regulatory Committee to reach a conclusion. Even if you succeed, you will need another procedural decision to make, namely, to include the matter in the agenda of today’s session. And then as soon as you can vote on that question. But before you vote, you will certainly need to put to the vote a draft decision on unacceptability. And we still insist that it be put that way. And to get the reporter to ask the question. So, ladies and gentlemen, you're not going to make such an adventure. And if you're going to do this by raping the session room, I want to remind you that we still have one tool that we're very good at using. Don't make us do this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u137	Thank you. Thus, fellow believers, you have listened to the motives of what two factions have requested recesses, and we will act in accordance with the Rules. Under the Rules, it is not said anywhere that the ad-hoc procedure requires prior approval of a review by any other Supreme Council committee. Therefore, without violating the Rules, I am voting on who is responsible for today's vote on a ruling that was not carried out yesterday. Please vote. [[13:50:42]] For 264 Decision taken. I'm answering the question here that I did yesterday when for technical reasons we couldn't vote said we were voting on Thursday. There is a requirement today to vote ad-hoc. 264 - decision taken. I put to the vote the decree of the National MP Zvaric and others on the inadmissibility of the decree. Please make a determination of the inadmissibility. [[13:51:28]] For 116 The decision on ad-hoc is not made. That is why I am voting on the adoption as a basis and on the whole of the draft Decree on certain legislative measures for constitutional reform in Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:52:00]] For 277 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Economic Zones and Special Investment Regimes in the Donetsk Region. Is there a Demyochin? Then, please, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the settlement of property issues]] He'll report. He'll report from the committee. Please, Matthew from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u138	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, I want to address, not the majority right now, but the faction of Communists, socialists, because I think most people just don't understand what they're doing. And now I want to say what you voted for, the honorable communists and the socialists. Today, the committee was to review all the bills and make them ready tomorrow for their first reading and voting in substance. So tomorrow you could vote on the election bill and adopt it in the first reading, and then you could vote if you didn't have any comments, and in general. What did you do now? Now you've practically ruled out tomorrow's opportunity to debate and vote. You moved it for two weeks. So I don't know what agony, why it's so mindless, but you get another shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Anyone who wants out of the procedure, sign up. Yes, please explain. Yes, please for five minutes, My Lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I think that today, when we begin to talk about the procedure, it is more about who is looking at the strategic interest here and how it is necessary or not to vote. But I think that if we are talking about that the Supreme Council, by a majority of the votes, the votes, I stress that the deputies present are dealing with matters, it is not really important in this case which issue is being considered. The question rests with the vote. That is why, when claims are destroyed, to prevent all other things from being made, unfortunately, it can be described as anything but, unfortunately, not as parliamentary methods of work. So if you insist today, and your point of view has not gone away, well, have the courage to admit what you voted wrong with your vote. It's not fair to speak to your opponents, well, it doesn't do you any good, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u141	Thank you. There's no date. Please, Alexeyev. He's got Samowinski on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u142	Alexeev, faction of the Ukrainian Comparty. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u143	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. For us who are here, now in this room, everything is clear, because we know with you that there is a hard struggle to prevent a review in the sessional room of the draft changes to the Constitution and in general the implementation of political reform. It is trying to create a crisis in connection with the nonadmission of the Law on Proportional Elections and the failure of political reform. That's why I'd like to go to the radio audience, now the BETTS and the Ourists, using the same model they've already adopted, today they're trying to vote down on the commission of a temporary special commission to work on all the projects that political reform requires today. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u145	Please, Samowinski. There's no Samowovski. Sowkovich. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u146	Thank you. I would like to say first of all that what happened today is 10 steps away from the processes that the Communists and Socialists wanted to vote for. They wanted it better, and it got worse as usual. There is no need to want as much as possible in this situation, but to want as you need to. Because by contacting people who are sometimes called the majority, although representing a minority of the Ukrainian people in Parliament, you will never receive a promise, leave you, and be set because it is their goal, ideology, and their mission. You have quite clearly implemented all their scripting plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u147	Please, Tuck, after him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u148	Roman Tkac, People's Movement, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u149	Please, Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u150	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Now we have witnessed a very signistic event and a very signistic performance by Communist leader Peter Simonek. Finally, the Communists admitted that they were willing to trade anything, including the Proportional Elections Act, in order to bring about changes to the Constitution. This fear of the possible victory of the democratic forces in the future elections has taken hold not only of the oligarchs but also of the left. And they're willing to sell everything, including with their own interests, to make Ukraine the property of the puppies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u151	Please, Suhi, follow him to Matthew from the committee. And that's it, we're done. Dry, isn't it? Then, please, Matthew from the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u152	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. My fellow Members, once again, I would like to point out that in the draft decision of the Supreme Council, which we have now or yesterday before you, and will now vote, it is noted even in the preamble itself that, with a view to producing harmonized approaches and proposals in the drafting of bills aimed at legislatively providing for constitutional reform in Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides. It is further stated that a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council is to be appointed to work on draft laws. After work, I emphasize it. That's why I'm addressing Mr. Matthews in particular. This does not necessarily mean that one or more of the members of the Supreme Council’s committees are not able to participate in the development.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, let's calm down. I want to remind you again. Such a representative body, where there are truly proportional representatives of our Parliament, there is no body where everyone really has the opportunity to defend his or her point of view as a temporary special commission. No committee can do that like this committee, because there's really a mini-parliament there. Once again, no one on the committee eliminates them because no one takes away their rights. And most of all. It's not the commission, it's not the committee, it's the Supreme Council's decision. The Supreme Council, by a total of 277 votes, has accepted as a basis and as a whole the decree for which we have voted with you. The question is exhausted. We're moving on to the next question. I'll say it again. We voted for the basis and the whole. Draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on settlement of collateral issues. Review of the simplified procedure. Montenegrin, ready to report? Then there's the draft of the Law on the Determination of the Procedure for the Calculation of Calls by Representatives of Local Self-Government. Bill 4188. Reports Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-03-m0.u154	This morning’s session is closed. Start work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
