ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u1	The Conciliation Council unanimously decided that today we should hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, let's register. Please reverse the vote. Please, take the vote, we're not there. People's deputies would like to prepare for registration, because I can see that they haven't been able to put the cards in the nest yet. 360 cards already, please. All factions are ready for registration. Then, please turn on the "Race" system, we register. [[13:03:43]] There were 379 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Before I make any further information about our work and the situation we're in right now, please listen to some announcements. First, allow me to carry out a pleasant mission and, on your behalf, welcome our colleague Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska to your birthday. And we've probably gotten used to the traditional announcements every day. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kasiaenko, Alexander Volodymyrovic, into the "One Ukraine" Party. Another announcement, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law: The status of the Ukrainian national deputy and article 4.2.2. I'm informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the exit of the Ukrainian National MP from the MP's "Trudova Ukraine" political party. Dear colleagues, please let go of your hands. I'll do the information first. Yesterday. As I have already said, all the members of the Conciliation Council have come to the conclusion that we need to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council today. Last night, we agreed that today we would execute all of our previous batch voting arrangements to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 4180. With regard to amendments to electoral legislation, such as the adoption of the relevant Law on the Specificity of the Implementation of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine on 26 December 2004 and prior approval and referral to the Constitutional Court of amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine relating to local self-government bodies, this is the registration number of the bill 3207-1. To this agreement, we did not simply go through a very long search for compromise, and in the end we agreed that with some changes to the 4180, namely, the introduction of these changes and agreed, we agreed that these changes would be implemented as of September 1, 2005, but not before the changes to the Constitution relating to local self-government bodies would be accepted. If we do not enter into the Constitution on local self-government by September 1, 005, then the changes to the Constitution under Project 4180 will enter into force as of January 1, 2006. Going to a batch vote, and we agreed that it would be on all three bills, it would be a one-time vote, as they say, that it should be at least 300 votes. We also agreed that the Law on the Specificities of the Law on Elections of the President would take effect only after the amendments to the Constitution, Law 4180, had been voted upon. For such a multi-vote that, according to some estimates, could, according to a signal vote by members of the Conciliation Council, there could have been more than 400 votes, there were some other preconditions that the faction "Our Ukraine" and, accordingly, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko put forward. That is, that the laws that we vote on in the session hall should be signed immediately. In large numbers, this was reached, and the President of Ukraine publicly stated that he was ready to appear in the Supreme Council today for our meeting. And after the adoption of these bills that I told you about, right in the session room, sign these laws. After signing these laws, he was ready to submit a proposal to the session room for approval of the new composition of the Central Election Commission. And another was a prerequisite for implementing our agreements that put the factions of our Ukraine, the BUT and the Centre, in order for the President to sign the decree and publish a decree on the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the appointment of the new Prime Minister. On this, as it were, good note yesterday evening, 20 hours ago, with the hope that we will be productive today, we parted. The only thing that was said on the Conciliation Council is that today, yesterday at 20 o'clock, the third round-table meeting will begin. Today, at nine o’clock in the morning, the results of this round table were reassembled by the Conciliation Council. Then they went to the session room and fulfilled their arrangements in a friendly manner. As you may already know, yesterday’s meeting was the longest but least effective. It lasted from eight o’clock to two o’clock in the morning, and in the end, virtually nothing was agreed upon. The agreements reached at the Conciliation Council were ruined because there was no agreement on the resignation of the government of the current Cabinet of Ministers. This morning, from nine o’clock in the morning, we again tried to find ways to compromise. Then, about 11 a.m., a decision was made to hold another meeting with the President of Ukraine. And now faction leaders, and the Head of the Supreme Council, are meeting with the President of Ukraine, trying to find a way out of the situation that you and I are in. Let's hope that we all get together from this situation today, once again, by the number of votes at least 400, let's try to get out. Here's the information for this minute. That's why I'd like, dear colleagues, to have a little more patience with you. I'll call it a 14-hour break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I see on the monitor that we have every reason to make all the necessary decisions. Let's probably do the right thing while they're there to advise us if we vote it all out. And then they were put to the facts. I think you've probably realized that if I show up at the table alone, I won't tell you many happy things. So far, I think the process is under control, although what I heard on the phone when I was connected, and the debates there, they feel pretty hot. So let's give them some more time. And there's a break of 14 hours for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u3	Dear colleagues. I will. And you'll start yelling, "What a shame!" Believe me, and I believed those who promise me that you'll give us another 45 minutes, and in any event we'll open meetings, start, continue, continue. The consultations, which I have been very hopeful to tell you, have ended, as always in the last days, with nothing. So once again, we will have another 45 minutes to talk to each other, and at 2: 30 a.m., we will definitely get to the solution. At 3: 30 p.m., I am sorry, but at 3: 30 a.m., we will definitely come to the conclusion of any of the matters of the order of the day that we planned today. An interval of up to 15 hours is announced for 30 minutes. I hope this is the last one for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please come in, dear fellows, sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the latest consultations that have taken place between the MPs and the factions, as well as with the participation of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. As you know, yesterday we actually reached an agreement that we need to make a package decision that would address the decision of the government regarding the implementation of political reform, namely the adoption of Bill 4180, 3207-1, and 6372 on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 26 December 2004, the adoption of the resignation of the Central Electoral Commission for the submission of the President and the formation of a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. After that, these last arrangements were reached at 19 o’clock yesterday. After that, there was a 20 - hour meeting, a second meeting, a third round table with candidates for the post of President of Ukraine, an active president of Ukraine, presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Javier Solana, a representative of the European Union, a representative of the OSCE, Mr. Kubish, a speaker of the Russian Federation, Boris Grizzlov, and the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The debate lasted six hours, as a result of these debates, which ended somewhere after the second hour of the night, and I'll read it to you again. "The participants at their third meeting in Kiev on December 6, 2004 discussed the current situation in Ukraine and agreed on the following: (1) The decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine since 3 December 2004 provides a basis for the resolution of the political crisis in Ukraine and is, of course, to be carried out by all participants in the electoral process; (2) Note that the President of Ukraine suspends the mandate of the members of the Central Electoral Commission and makes proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a new composition of the CWC previously agreed and submitted to its consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine; (3) Agree on the need to enact a law amending the Presidential Elections Act, which provided for a mechanism for transparent and fair elections, non-abuse and falsification; ( 4) Arrangements were made for two and three to unlock the work of the State authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. After further consultations, this item was deleted and recorded as the position of the participants in the negotiation process. I mean, not from the Ukrainian side, but from the people he called, who are said to be in favour of the implementation of paragraphs two and three of the public authorities, including the Cabinet of Ministers, the Administration of the President of Ukraine. And the fifth. We agreed to suspend our work until the morning of December 7 for consultations with the parliamentary groups and factions on decisions that would help solve the political crisis in Ukraine, namely the adoption of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine No. 4180 and the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Victor Yushchenko signed without warning. Viktor Janukovic signed with remarks. I signed with this phrase, "Under the terms of agreement with the Conciliation Council." I was of the opinion that there was no need to write the fifth paragraph on such a question. For think about this fifth paragraph, when it was signed after two o'clock in the morning: "We agreed to abort our work by morning of December 7 for consultations with MPs and factions," and then follow the text. I said, "What kind of consultations can we have at night? Who will now gather the leaders of MP groups and factions? And who's going to stay at the round table that goes to their countries?" In addition, we agreed on the 19th hour decision of the Supreme Council, and we obviously need to hold further consultations with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine signed with the following remark: "In the light of the position of the Head of the Supreme Council." So, dear colleagues, after the round table, we had a consultation this morning, and we had these packets. The first is a large package, which I've already mentioned, a complex, six positions. But there is no agreement. And there is no joint decision on how to treat the government. Then the next package that just now requires us to make the decisions that are currently within Parliament's purview. So it's a package of adoptions of bills 4180, 3207-1, 6372 and the corresponding release and appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission. Here we have differences, no agreed position, obviously we have to make a decision by the Supreme Council. And the third. If we don't accept these bills, then we have to vote separately in the package. And that means they're going to be burned. That's the situation. We met with the leaders of the MPs and factions, there was not only one faction - the Yulia Block Timoshenko - with the participation of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. This situation was discussed. In fact, everything remained in place, that is, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we've held another meeting of the Conciliation Council. And it is suggested that you consider this order of action. First: this is what the Supreme Council will need to decide on Bill 6372, namely on the inclusion of the draft Law on the specificities of the application of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act in the re-vote on 26 December 2004 in the agenda. After that, if the Supreme Council decides to be included in the agenda, the next sentence will be put to the vote. Attention, everyone, so there will be no charges later. A signal vote on the readiness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt three bills in a package mode: 6372 - on the specificities of the application of the Presidential Election Act, 4180 - draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, 3207-1 - is a draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine to improve the system of local self-government so that we can approve and refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But I want to make this warning that I told the leaders of MP groups and factions. Those who categorically oppose the adoption of a package decision would not have asked me to vote. Why, because the next vote, if we get 300 votes in a signal vote, the next vote will apply to the adoption of the law in a packet. And if we don't get 300 votes, we're putting down Bill 4180 a year and we're burning Bill 6372 because in the transitional provisions of Bill 6372, paragraph one of the final positions is more accurate, it's written that the Law on the Characteristics of the Implementation of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine takes effect from its publication the day after the promulgation of Act 4180 amending the Constitution of Ukraine. So I'd like to ask my honourable colleagues to be extremely responsible in signal voting, because we're going to destroy any further action at all. If the honourable colleagues, the signal vote shows that we don't have 300 votes, then it's clear that we need to take it off now, not remove it, but postpone the consideration of Bills 4180 and 3207-1 and determine for Bill 6372 as well as the release and appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission. I'm informing you, Your Honor, that the President of Ukraine has already filed an application for the release of members of the Central Electoral Commission. The corresponding document will now be distributed to you. At the same time, within an hour from the President of Ukraine, the appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission will take place. But I'm here to tell you the good news, my distinguished colleagues, that out of the 15 active members of the Central Electoral Commission -- 14 are invited to review the parliamentary groups and factions for appointment. But I would like to calm down, because when I put this question before the leaders of the MPs and factions, every representative of the MP and the faction said that our representative was working honestly. So there's a problem here, dear colleagues. Obviously, here in the Supreme Council, we have to make a decision -- we have a rating vote, because there will be more candidates if I'm right -- 19 and after the ratings vote, we'll actually decide on each candidate. Otherwise, honourable colleagues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine would have to rescind their evaluation of the Central Electoral Commission. But the Supreme Council can't do that because we got it yesterday and I gave you a separate endorsement to the Supreme Council of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, where the Central Electoral Commission is presented with appropriate claims as a result of the decisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the election of the President of Ukraine. So, your honorary colleagues, the information you've been given, I now have statements from two factions to announce the break so they can discuss this situation, but before we announce the break, let's give 10 minutes, and then we'll exchange it from motive and from procedure, how we'll proceed. Please sign up. After that, a break of 30 minutes will be announced. Then we will move on to making the right decisions. Because we would not have begun to consider the matter in substance, and I have to declare a recess under the Rules, whether I wish or not, but there is a Rules. Sergei Sobolev, please, "Our Ukraine." Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u5	Sobolev, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I think we're being deliberately cornered by one single decision. Please tell me whether you can put two questions on one scale: the line that was in the election and the lie that was coming out of the mouth of the CTC and the other committees and what is required. So my proposal is next if everyone wants an honest election, and that's what they're saying. First. Vote amendments and additions to the Elections Act and this law should be signed by the President of Ukraine, and then at tomorrow's meeting vote on polytreform and all other issues. I think it's going to be true and honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! We have an unforeseeable plenary meeting tomorrow. I come from the fact that we have nothing to do with each other, we must make all the necessary decisions today. It's up to the Supreme Council to decide. Her decision will be final. Matvienkov, please, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u7	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Of course, this situation, which has taken place today, cannot prevent us from being concerned with you or our constituents, and the whole country is already in, let us say, a critical state. Therefore, before we talk about the faction's solution, I would like to say that those who are negotiating today should learn not only to speak but also to listen to each other and to listen to each other in order to take steps to meet. Because that way we can just come to a dead end from which it's very hard to get out. That's the first one. Second. Today we are talking about the essence or the complex of these bills, but we would very much like to know: how a number of issues related to the same peremptory mandate have been resolved, with the same improvement of the electoral law, because what has happened today and what is being put into these laws today, it is written that I do not know how in 21 days we will be holding elections. Because they are completely imperfect. Has this side been affected, and how are we going to get out of this situation? We wanted to have a clear and clear understanding of the position here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just apologize to you, I haven't been able to say that we agreed that when we come to the consideration of the bill in fact, we'll have the opportunity to tell you which final version we've reached and this final version has already been distributed to all of you. Mishura Valery Dmitrovitch, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u9	I ask you to pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u10	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u11	Simonenko, Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, honourable colleagues, the Communist faction has long been insisting that, because of the changes to the Constitution, the whole vertical of power should be brought to our minds and responsibilities in the first place in the country, the second to protect it from oligars and criminal capital, and thirdly, to strengthen its responsibility to our people in Ukraine. And all that's happening in the Supreme Council right now is the result that certain groups, having already tasted or tasted this power unlimited, are also preventing today from adopting changes to the Constitution that would allow today to limit the powers of the President and those who will lead it and to put power under the control of the people. That is why we are Communists, and we insist, on the primary adoption of Law 4180.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u12	Nestor Shufric, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Malinovsky. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, please take a look at the map of Ukraine that is just ahead of us. It's divided by half, but it's divided by half the flowers of ours, by our national flowers, by the colors of our national flag. I think that's the way it's supposed to stay, we don't have to let Ukraine be two-colored today, on the one hand -- orange, on the other hand -- blue. And today, by voting for changes to the Constitution, we have a real opportunity to avoid this tension, this opposition in society. Not all of us are satisfied with the proposed package law. We don't have a 100-year grade on the work of the Central Electoral Commission. But for the sake of compromise, first among our citizens in our society, we support the idea, and we hope that we will find harmony in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u14	Alexei Malinowski is handing over the right to speak to Alexander Frost, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the first speaker correctly said that the electoral packages and constitutional reform are not the same, because elections solve the problem today, and constitutional reform solves the problem forever. And, of course, it is of paramount importance. But there is no doubt that there is a way to open up for such transformations through honest elections. So let's still support the vote package and the Elections Act and the constitutional changes, and confirm the loyalty of those signatures that the leader of "Our Ukraine" has made in favour of voting for changes to the Constitution, so that no one has any doubts about the intentions of the voters in the electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u16	Sass, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the word to the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u18	Tymoshenko, the BUT faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to address in Parliament the people's deputies who support Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka and who are practically his team in Parliament and all the deputies who want to defend fair elections. The voting order is: first of all, I ask everyone to vote in 6372-d, a law that prevents counterfeiting in the next round of the President's election. Then, when this bill is voted on separately, give all the votes for it in order to definitely prevent counterfeiting. No matter what ideological differences we have, no matter what viewpoints we have. Including Janukovich's faction. And in no case will all the ballots be cast. We don't vote for any batch vote. I'm asking if we can make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u20	Please, Oreste Dmitrovich Klimpush, "The only Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to give the floor to the leader of our faction, Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u22	The Honourable Huban Bogdan Volodymyrovich has a word, the faction of "The One Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, of course, during the last days, we all communicate in order to find a compromise solution. The very decision that will enable us to resolve the political crisis in our country. I'm absolutely sure that the work that was done yesterday, namely the complex solution to the crisis resolution, will allow us to vote today. And at the same time, we need to adopt, first, the Law on Amendments to the Presidential Elections Act. These changes will allow for fair, transparent elections, and people's will to choose the President that people want. The second is to change the composition of the CBC. And the third is to accept the changes to the Constitution exactly the way we spoke yesterday. At the same time, voting in a package of these laws will make it possible to resolve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u24	Bunny, please, NDP faction. Victor Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, we all understand that there is no agreement today that can make productive decisions that the majority would make. I therefore support the fact that today we must make the only right decision that is necessary to enact legislation in order to ensure the decision of the Central Electoral Commission, the Supreme Court, to hold a second round of ballots. And we will certainly do that will, both of which are intended to hold fair elections and to ensure that they are fully in accordance with our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u26	Yes, Basil Gavriluk, please, the Center Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, but I cannot understand, and we are discussing this in the group, Vladimir Mihajlovich, but we are fighting with you to ensure that the Supreme Council is respected for parliamentaryism in Ukraine. We have with you a decision of the first December, which for some reason is being ignored by the constitutional guarantor. And in order for us to move forward and realize that agreements are being implemented, that there is a clear way to resolve matters, then why do we not see the current responsibility of the Government? Why do we today lack clarity in our steps and actions? Moreover, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have always advocated the interests of the Supreme Council in independence from political views. Let us insist that the constitutional guarantor comply with the direct rule of article 115. And then everything will be as you have suggested -- easy and simple -- and will take into account the interests of all parties interested in development, without exception, in the normal development of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Let's call it a break. Break initiators say that they will have 20 minutes to hold consultations. So I would like your attention, Your Honor, to announce a recess of up to 16 hours for 20 minutes. Please be in the session room at this time, as it is time for responsible historical decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u29	Yes, invite the national deputies to the session room, we will continue our work. At the initiative of the two factions, Ukraine and the Communist factions, there was a 30-minute break. I ask you to inform me about the outcome of the discussion during the break and what decision has been made. Microphone, please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u30	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Of course, members of our faction have a desire to change the power system according to the requirements of the day, and primarily a vertical power that would allow them to work properly. This is the election of the Supreme Council, the subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers, through the Cabinet of Ministers to form an executive branch of power. And that's how we move on to the parliamentary-presidential republic. This is a step that we need to take in order to make further changes to the Constitution to make proposals that each council chooses its own performances. So in this case, after discussing all the issues, we agreed that only in a packet, we're going to vote on all the draft laws that were said. But we have a big surprise, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I'm going to say that the first project that you said about the changes to the election law, we're going to vote only in that edition of the inclusion in the agenda, which is also distributed -- 6372-d -- without the addition that has emerged here, and excludes the introduction of this law after the promulgation of the law on changes to the Constitution, i.e. the publication of the results of political reform. In this case, the Communist faction claims that we will vote in favour of this bill, 6372, to amend the Presidential Elections Act in the context of the transitional regulations of the late ones, which stipulates that this law takes effect on the day of its publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, which does not take place until the day of the official publication of the Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution and is no longer valid on the day following the date of the entry into office of the newly elected president. What touches the appendix that has appeared, we will not vote on it. Here we know who: Matvienko signed it. That's why we propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we clearly declare that the inclusion in the agenda is precisely this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I immediately asked for a transcript of our meeting of the last Conciliation Council. And what I'm saying here, by informing the people's deputies about the consequences, about the outcome of the Conciliation Council meeting, I want to stress once again that such a procedure will be the characteristics of this procedure, and I will answer that question, Peter Mikolaiovich. We will now put to the vote: the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 6372. After we included this bill, I felt that we needed it, even though we agreed not to give information, to vote immediately, but from the speech of the people's deputy Matvienkov -- he wanted to hear what positions had been removed, which remained, even though a bill had been passed there. Then we agreed that five minutes would be informed by Bills 4180, 3207-1, and 6372. After that, I beg your pardon! - we put to the vote the signal readiness of the people's deputies to demonstrate the willingness of the people's deputies to vote in a package. But in order to vote in a package, we need 300 votes. And I asked, and I warned those people, I mean the people's deputies, I'm sorry. Once again, I've asked the national MPs who are firm opponents not to vote, because there's an illusion that's going to trigger the vote that we don't vote, that we don't get 300 votes, but in these circumstances when we vote in a pack, I want to emphasize once again what I said on the Conciliation Council. When we vote in a packet we have a blocking End position that sounds like this. Ending Position. This law, I mean the Law on the Specialities of the Law on the Elections of the President takes effect from the day of its publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, which takes place not earlier than the day of the official publication of the Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, and loses effect the day after the day following the entry into office of the newly elected President of Ukraine. That was the wording. Just a minute. Next. If we see that we don't have the necessary search number of at least 300 votes, we continue to do so, so that we essentially refuse to consider Bills 4180 and 3207, because we burn them and then we go into action, we go into Bill 6372, and then we need to get into action, because we're looking at a bill, not a package that goes into action, but a constitutional rule on how to get into effect. It's going to go like this. Well, if not, dear colleagues, show me another regulatory rule, because we can then bind and everything else that we will accept only binding bills. This law takes effect on the day of its official publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine or Government Courier and loses office the day after the election of the newly elected President of Ukraine. That is, the bond is removed. This is the right regulatory rule. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get the room up and running so that we can either vote or not. We don't come up with any other tricks. Please write it down for three minutes. Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u32	Sobolev, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Vladimir Mikhailovich, I only have one. Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't go. I have one question for you. What will happen if there is no 4180 vote, it is clear that the President will not sign the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of the President and the specificities of application. What are the guarantees, Vladimir Mikhailovich? You've been to all the negotiations. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please tell us what guarantees if the Chamber votes in Pack 4180 and amends and supplements to the Electoral Act that the President will sign the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Electoral Act and not just the Law on Political Reform? What are these guarantees? Because there is no other party to the formulation by the order of these laws and the introduction of only a unilateral one, which applies only to polytreform. So, please tell me, what are these guarantees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! We've already agreed, and I think the Conciliation Council should be informed. If the Supreme Council gives God and our efforts can make the right decision, I will be the first to submit a bill to the President of Ukraine to amend the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, and I am going to assure you that this is a violation of the laws and regulations, but today we have a political commitment that I will not sign and submit a bill amending the Constitution until the President of Ukraine, as a result of our agreement, does this bill not come into effect and will not sign, enough for you? WRITER IN THE ZALU [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u34	Yes, then, Your Honor, if you don't sit down enough, please, and steer, you want me to just do your will. What else do you want? No, it's not. Yes, calm down, please. Matvienkov. Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u35	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, let us not be amazing people. The thing is, "Our Ukraine" is not going to vote for any changes to the Constitution. If so, why are we doing all these tests and so forth? Then we just put the Elections Act, and we vote it. And there's no way out now that we don't undermine the possibility of considering Law 4180 someday, I think we're keeping this Law there ourselves, but we're going to know whose fault this is being done. Then we're going to find out all the circumstances, because I understand why this has happened, and so that we don't now show that the effort that we know is not going to be realized, ask the left-hand side of you is sitting a representative from "Our Ukraine" and he'll tell you whether they're going to vote or not. I got an answer on my break, they won't vote under any circumstances, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u36	The point is, Alexander Alexiyovich is a non-fractional one, and that's why I can't ask him. So please, Player Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all I wish you courage and ask you to give the floor to the Chairman of the Regulatory Committee, Valentina Matveyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u38	Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u39	I thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your honorary colleagues, for putting a paper in the hall, and I cannot say otherwise what is called a one-page addition to the bill, under the registration number, again at the same number 6372-d, which registered the draft law on the specificities of the law on the election of the President of Ukraine. It's actually Vladimir Mikhailovich over what's called regular creativity. Who's he bringing in? It's not a draft law, first. And secondly, it substantially changes the content of Bill 6372-D. That's why we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we again have a reason for another break. On demand of two. Well, I beg you, then go to your associates and ask them why we should take a break. And don't direct me, please. At the request of the factions "Our Ukraine" and the faction "Centre" there is a 30-minute recess. Come and ask, please. Break until 16 o'clock. Oh, I'll tell you what, in 17 hours, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u41	The process is going on, but we're going to keep working. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We will continue our sessions. I'm talking to the factions who took a break. Which one of you will speak? If there is such a need for motive, why did you take a break? Is it not? None. We're not back yet. Then let us perhaps exchange our thoughts again. Please sign up for 10 minutes. And then we will. Please, 10 minutes. From the procedure of getting out of the situation we're in, please Chubarov, follow him, Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u42	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you to hand over Kachura.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u43	Please, Paul Kachur, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. It seems to me that there is some agreement between the deputies and the MPs in the session room. The main contradiction is that we have no confidence in the President. And we all know in this room that he's a major divorceer, and he's a major obstacle to compromise in the session room, and to achieve some consensus in society. So, Adam Ivanovich, I have an offer, maybe it's something not in the legal field, but in the political field. So that we can vote in the session room on a political document, an act of mistrust with President Kuchma of Ukraine. I'm gonna say it again. Dear friends, an act of mistrust. Because that's the basic figure that today leads to destabilization in both the sessional room and in society. And after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u45	Please, Hellcat behind him, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The people are waiting for us to make the most serious decisions. Both my opinion and this view share the majority of my colleagues, taking into account the vast package of information that we have received, there is a need to study it. I propose today to declare tomorrow a sessional day, today well and seriously to reflect on what we have been given, and tomorrow to return to the package for consideration of the proposed bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u47	Please, Bondarchuk behind him Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u48	Bondarchuk, Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, the people's deputies! We have no choice but to vote on laws on the specificities of the Electoral Act on constitutional reform, on the CBC in the package. Why? Because, to date, there are different positions on two such important issues: the election of the President in general and on the powers of the President after these elections. In "Our Ukraine," I understand, the President with the imperial powers, with the powers normally vested in these leaders in the Banana republics, the gorillas, these are the ones the Americans put in. That's what they need. To the rest of the deputies, they express the view of the majority of the population that, with royal powers, the President is a permanent conflict in society. And these powers must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u49	Please, Dobkin, follow him Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u51	Please, Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u52	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! We have concerns about the subject, which is causing concern about the fact that under the registration number of the law on the specificities of the law on the election of the President of Ukraine, 6372-D is actually a bill, two bills with different ending positions. We ask Adam Ivanovich to avoid the confusion of voting, to register a bill with other end-of-the-art standards at another number, so that everyone understands clearly what the vote will be about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u53	Please, Singer. After him, the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u54	Please pass the word to my colleague Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u55	Lucenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u56	Honorable MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Sadly, the protests went to the evolutionary plane. We didn't start negotiations with Kuchma, but they became a perfect fact. He announced his price, which is called the adoption of a polytreform. The law on CTC and the law on improvement of the electoral law can only be signed at this price. Without that, we, the socialists, are going to vote in favour of the law on CBC and on the amendments to the electoral law, but 90 percent will not be signed by the politically active President of Ukraine. That's what we're getting out of. Or the election of the name Kiwalov, or the polytreform and free expression. And each one of us should not deceive each other, but choose his own path.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u57	Please, Cloud. He's behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u59	Julia Timoshenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Now the most brutal project in Parliament is to carry out the reform since September 1st, where the new president is de-elected. And the question is that the President's Administration today has a clear plan: if the reform of September 1st passes, there will be no presidential election. They're just going to reach September 1st by any means, and then they're going to do their majority in Parliament, and they're going to practically prolong the power of the clans. I am addressing all the patriots of Ukraine: no vote for a batch vote, but vote today for a new composition of the CLTC and, of course, for a law that prevents counterfeiting, in its entirety. I'm sure Kuchma will sign this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u61	Please, People's Deputies. After him, Suskevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Sergey Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u63	Here's the Justice Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of a wisdom that has been in existence for two thousand years. The first desire of a man of the crowd is to make a model for himself. The second desire of a man of the crowd is, on the first safe occasion, not to drop this godfather. And the third desire of a crowd is to dream of a new godfather. This is what I want to remind all the parties to our conflict, and I want to emphasize that we need to make a deal more quickly. The guarantees given by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin are sufficient, both procedural and sufficient. We don't have to tell stories that the President won't sign. Vladimir Mikhailovich will do what he signs. By the way, notice that his rating in Ukraine is steadily increasing, and in Kiev in particular. We only vote for the package, we're not political suicides, we don't know what to say. Just for the package.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u65	Please, Suškevich. Follow him, Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u66	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you with regard to the situation of discrimination against the rights of persons with disabilities. Unfortunately, Bill 6372 states that only the disabled of the first group can vote at home. I would like to remind you, dear friends, that all the constituencies, most of the polling stations, are extremely restrictive. That's the first one. The other one. This is December 26th, this opportunity to move people with disabilities is extremely difficult. I'm asking you, Adam Ivanovich: today you just have to write "disability." They've got a license, they've got receipts. And I demand that today's election rights be guaranteed to the disabled. It's controlled. And let's not do it in such a way that in an effort to eliminate counterfeiting, we eliminate the electoral rights of many people who are now disabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u67	Please, Ivancho. It's Boyko. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, despite all the affairs of the Supreme Council today December 7, the Day of Local Self - Rule in Ukraine. Allow the power of the people to coalition, from the National President of Ukraine, Yushchenka, to warmly and warmly welcome all deputies, all levels of council, their employees with the Local Self-Government Day. [[Applause]] Law 3207 stresses and stresses once again that you and I are filled with hope and desire. that local self-governance authorities are the true masters in the respective territories. So I'm asking that we support and vote on this bill, and that's how we support local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u70	Dear People's Deputies, I have long watched the process that is taking place in the country and I cannot understand one thing. It is not clear to us today that the situation in Kiev, for example, is different. Before the elections began, I spoke about the need for both candidates to withdraw their nominations. Because today I'm making sure of the wrong guy, the wrong guy. And today we need a leader to unite the nation and take it all down. That's why I think, even Jo, that we need to be without the President at all, but we need to take political reform and come to a normal life.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a few suggestions, a few words and literally a few words. With regard to the fair observation of Cachure. That there's a certain mistrust in it. That's how I figured out to the President whether he'd sign the bills we passed. Once again, I emphasize that Vladimir Mikhailovich is not on the Conciliation Council again, and in the session hall he spoke of a clear agreement. There was even more, if we had fulfilled yesterday's arrangements, it was agreed that today we were adopting these changes to the laws, and right there in the session room they would have been signed. So, I think there's a mistrust that they won't be signed by us. The Peckleshenko proposal for transfer by tomorrow, I think we should be looking for solutions that we would like to find today. Because if we stretch out, we can't find tomorrow, and we'll just, they say, excuse me, raise the process. As for Shufrich’s observation of the various End - of - the - Day positions. I think when we, my dear friends, put this bill to the vote, the chairman will make it clear to the bill, the number with which the Final Positions are to make it clear that we are voting for what we are voting for. Julia Volodymyrna tells us about September 1st that someone is offering. I'm reminding you that it's not someone who's offering, and this has been compromised, and this compromise has been proposed by our Ukraine, that they're willing to go not immediately with the appointment of the newly elected President, but not before September 1, 2005. Suskevich, about the disabled. This is when we discuss the laws directly when it comes to electoral legislation on the President's election. And I would like, my fellow Members, in view of the fact that we are celebrating the Day of Local Self-Government in these days, to support the friendly proposals of the national MP Ivancho, who calls for us to make changes to the Constitution regarding local self-government. But in order to make these changes, we have to vote in a packet and 4180 and 3207-1, and I think that's going to be done. Please, there are three minutes from the factions they took Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, several factions have now been consulted during the break, including the socialist faction and the proposal is as follows, as there are several times more accusations of non-compliance with some arrangements today to vote on one issue, the issue of amending the law on elections and the law on application, the specificities of the law. Next, to take a break until 10 a.m., we're about to assemble a consensus board and produce a mechanism for further voting questions: the Central Electoral Commission, because until now there's no input on the Central Electoral Commission from the President so we can eliminate today's Central Election Commission without making a decision on the new composition, that means we're going to break the election. Questions relating to other voting proposals for amendments and additions to the Constitution. That is our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u73	Yes. Dear colleagues, we are closer to compromise than ever before. Negotiations and meetings have now taken place, including with representatives of the "Our Ukraine" faction. The faction "Our Ukraine" has made its proposal: maybe we will come up with such a compromise proposal, please listen carefully. If we could all now agree to hold more final consultations, because we can use one reckless movement to destroy the fragile ice that brings the bridges between us. Just a minute. If we agreed to close the meeting now,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u74	Well, listen, listen carefully. We've been voted tomorrow at nine o'clock to have an emergency session, and I ask you to listen, in this case, to the position of the faction of our Ukraine, because if we now vote, well, honourable colleagues,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u75	Well, listen, I'll tell you right now, you can't listen to it until the end, there's actually an agreement to vote in a package and to adopt a political one. All right, dear fellows, I'm going to make a proposal, and please sign up with your motives. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, today, if we don't need a comprehensive solution for us in the session room, it is necessary for society to calm down. This is necessary for the consolidation of Parliament and then for the reconciliation of society. Yesterday, a meeting with local authorities showed that this was one of the reasons why it could calm down. It's actually a deal. All we have to do is make the last arrangements with the faction leader. So, respectable colleagues, respectable colleagues, well, you can listen if you don't want to, please don't listen. If you don't want to listen, there is now going to be a bill 6372. Other bills will not be voted on. It's good for you. Well, please, let's do it this way. So, dear colleagues, there is such an offer if we have now listened to the position of another faction, who has made a clear statement, that tomorrow at 9 a.m. we are deciding to hold an extraordinary meeting. And we're taking three documents with a packet. The President of Ukraine comes here, signs them. We're taking down all the problems in our society today. Well, please, now I'm going to ask Victor Mikhailovich, we had a negotiation with him yesterday. Let him say this position. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. Well, that's not the way to do it. Everyone else, please sign up. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I will say that the Conciliation Council has been working very fruitfully for our last days. I would like to express my gratitude to all colleagues who are seeking compromise. I think in this room we'll find the necessary decisions that we need. We are extremely close to these decisions, despite the fact that yesterday the package of arrangements we made was unfortunately not implemented. Dear friends, we have a request. I'm convinced that we're going to come up with effective decisions and decision packages. We have a request. I'll make up my mind about the next meeting. There'll be more consultations tomorrow. At nine o’clock, we gather the Conciliation Council, and tomorrow we make a decision. Perhaps today we should vote on a separate law. But we realize that there are certain problems associated with mistrust. That is why we understand this feeling of fellow believers. Secondly, it is very important that the laws that we will adopt become effective for the President to sign them. We're asking Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin to speak with the President, and tomorrow the President was in the hall, and where we're going to sign the laws immediately. The request of honourable colleagues to support our offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u77	Yes, please, Victor Stepanovich. Viktor Mikhailovich spoke in place of the Gornik, who was written down first not to be yelled at. Colonies, please. That we have everything going according to the Rules. Please calm down. Coloniaris.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u78	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u79	Gennady Samofal, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm asking you to add 12 seconds. Thank you. I've been a participant in all the last two days of all the meetings of the Conciliation Council, the meeting of the President. Yesterday, all groups and factions found a very good compromise, almost ready to vote in favour of the package. Today, however, there is a problem with our Ukraine that the Government must be retired. I asked you today, please tell me, what's the point today, 20 days before the election, of solving this problem? Today, the Prime Minister went on vacation, and the issue is resolved. We are prepared to vote in favour of the package on one condition that if Victor Andreevich gives us clear assurances that yes, they will indeed vote in favour of the package. As yet, attempts on our part have not yet been made to understand our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u81	Thank you. We need votes. If there are voices, everything will be fine in the faction. Please, Andrew Polit, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u82	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u83	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u84	Respectable radio audiences! Dear colleagues! When our colleagues in “Our Ukraine” say they are willing to compromise, I ask if their leader has signed an international agreement, a statement and has failed to comply with paragraph 4. Yesterday, until 2 p.m. again, so to speak, we arrived and did not resolve the problem in the debate, in fact, created preconditions for the continuation of the conflict. What trust might there be in other faction members who come out and speak for someone. That's a first. Second, Vladimir Mikhailovich! When we went out with you today, we don't have any outstanding questions left. And after the Communist faction took a break, it announced that all outstanding issues had been removed. What's new, I'd like to know? What compromises “Our Ukraine” calls us to. All their requests were granted. And third, last. Fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u85	Please let me finish! Dear colleagues, I beg you not to shout. More than a minute, Victor Mikhailovich, come on, calm down! One second, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u86	And the last. Respectable radio audiences! The fight is not about solving issues that are totally relevant to the lives of our people today, but rather about empowering those capitalists who are in favor of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u87	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u88	That is why these issues have been resolved for so long and so long.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Mikhail Dobkin, please. factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to pass the word to Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u91	Leonid Krawchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, all these days we are looking for a solution to a very difficult question. I suggest we drop the charges against each other. As we have the right, let's say, to join the Presidential Elections Act in constitutional reform, and "Our Ukraine" has the right to add what it deems necessary. And that's why we have to compromise without blaming each other, because I might like or dislike something, but the right to blame and forbid anyone. We're very close to compromise. And if we start to remember the history of 17 years, we will surely find many problems. Let's take a risk today. And let's do a strategic task: find a solution in this room. And I'm sure we'll find him tolerant, intelligent and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u93	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u94	I'm asking you to pass the word to Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u95	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u96	I thank you for your word, and I want to say it. We have already expressed our mistrust with one another. And obviously we need to put an end to this, find something that can unite us. I support Victor Pinzenik's proposal, let's vote on the election law, because we vote for him, we vote for him, we all vote. And to have some kind of security lock, let's rotate the C.V.C.A. in the morning, before we get the law signed. Please don't clap. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we need to now set up a Conciliation Council that would consider not only a package, but also the content of those draft laws that didn't correct the changes last night, so that we don't make mistakes then more serious and more serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u97	Vitaly Shibko, please. Please, it's Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u98	So that we don't make those mistakes, by the way, in Law 4180, that will make things even worse next to what's happening in the organization of state life today. I can explain in detail because I know this subject very well. But I'd like to ask, let's not rush. I've been to a meeting of the faction "Our Ukraine," and it's not easy for them to make decisions, and I understand that very well. Don't bring him in, God. So let's take these difficulties into account, let's vote together in the morning. They say we vote package in the morning. Let's vote. We're not losing anything, whether this morning or today, we're not losing anything. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u99	Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, let's deal with it this way: either we're considering the question of the procedure that was previously announced, or we're listening to the proposal that came out of the faction "Our Ukraine": we're holding consultations -- and tomorrow we're voting in a bag. Or--or. Let's not make any exceptions right now. The only thing I could suggest, dear colleagues, is that I would like your attention, so that we can proceed to the vote tomorrow, we can now vote one, two times: first, on the inclusion in the agenda of the 6372 project, second, on the opening of the plenary session tomorrow at nine o'clock. Well, calm down, dear fellows! Well, there's an offer: make a decision tomorrow. Everything else leads to destruction. Now there was actually a willingness for us to do that. What we're voting on is a package, and we need to hold our final consultations, and we're going to adopt both political reform and this law. Dear colleagues, please calm down! That's right. We've just finished, we've been exchanging thoughts. May I have your attention, Victor Mikhailovich? May I have your attention, please? I'm putting the vote on the table. Attention, please. - on the inclusion in the agenda of bill 6372 - on the specificities of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine in the re-vote on December 26, 2004, the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:43:52]] For-300 Ladies and gentlemen, questions. Calm down! The factions, please. We've already agreed on the procedure, so let's follow this procedure. May I have your attention, please? "Our Ukraine" 98, "Regions of Ukraine" 0, Communists - 0, SDPU(O) - 27, SPU -20, "Narodno Agrarn" - 20, Block Timoshenko -19, "Tradova Ukraine -16, "Soyuz" -15, "One Ukraine" -13, "NDP-PPU" 15, "Centre" 13, "Democratic Initiatives" -10, "Afterfractional 34. Dear colleagues, you can see that there is a number of votes needed here to make a decision without a package. But since we're out there and there's a proposition, and there's a good will, calm down, calm down, I'm begging you, calm down, don't scream. There's the good will of the faction of "Our Ukraine," who's asking for an announcement. Dear people's deputies, please. If you break up now. I'll close the meeting. I'm making a proposal to the faction of Ukraine. Sit down, please. I say again, sit down, please. If you're not set up right now. Ladies and gentlemen, now, if you'll all take your seats, we'll continue to work on the procedure that has been agreed upon. Sit down, sit down and Pinzenic sits down. You don't want to. So, no wish, then I'll tell you. He's not wearing anything yet. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, if you don't have a wish, I understand that if you don't want to find an agreed solution, I want to say once again, which will calm us down and give us the opportunity not only by the number of votes of the legal president, but also by the legal president on a territorial scale that will allow us to cement Ukraine, let's take the slightest chance to find common points of contact. We don't need to fight, calm down. But respectable national MPs, if we have a discrepancy, we can go like this. Acting on the Rules that we agreed to at the Conciliation Council. So now there are two proposals, honourable colleagues. Don't scream, please. I'm asking you, please, just please, with the Cross of God, please don't scream, we can either take a break, say, by 7:00. One minute, we'll vote, you won't decide, you'll decide the session room, don't shout. I know your emotional impulse. Either we're gonna take a break, or we're gonna be working on the procedure we've defined, or we're gonna have to make another decision on the Central Electoral Commission, we're gonna have to hold a meeting tomorrow, you want it or not, but we're gonna have to hold a meeting. So now there are three questions that could have been put to the vote, so that the Supreme Council could determine everything and make a decision. Am I right? Not to blame Victor Mikhailovich, no one, because we all want to compromise. So, dear colleagues, there is such an offer. May I have your attention, please? First. What we're doing is in line with the procedure that we've been talking about, which is we're going to go to a batch vote, but when we move on to a package vote, I'm just going to beg you all to make the decision that Ukraine needs to make so that we have the president of the entire Ukrainian people. One second. Take a break until 1 9 p.m. and hold the Conciliation Council again. Very important decisions, and we should not count in time. And the third offer. Tomorrow at 9 a.m., we'll start a meeting and make all the decisions by 13 a.m. Is there no objection? May I have your attention, please? Well, there's a proposition there and there's yours, but you vote. What are you yelling at? Adam Ivanovich, write down your motives, exchange your motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u100	Please sign up for motive. Please point to the monitors. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to work out a few minutes with you with a motive, but I would very much like to ask, let's work together to find a solution to what we agree with you in three days -- a comprehensive solution to these problems. So, please, 10 minutes. Kenzier. He's after him, Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u101	Jaroslav Kenzier, "Our Ukraine" faction Victor Yushchenka. Adam Ivanovich, I would still like to get an answer from the leadership of the Supreme Council to the question: what is it that we need to give the President of Ukraine to carry out his constitutional mission? He's referring to the government's resignation, which is what he needs to do. Is he just used to getting bribes all the time, and when he's given something on his paw, then he's going to sign, "Is it the Crevicestal," or the Law, or the Government's resignation, or something else? I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u102	Please, Hellcat, follow him, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, Pecklusenko, Zaporozhye District, Pologovsk electoral district. I think we've done the most -- we've calmed down today, we've calmed down a little bit, and it's a good thing, let's think about what we need to do next. Further, we must make informed decisions. Vladimir Mihajlovich said, "people" are deputies, so perhaps there is a point to such fateful decisions to consult the people. Take your time, please, it's the first one. Secondly, don't forget the economy, I think that this week, no later than when we vote fateful decisions, we should consider a package of economic issues with the operation of the whole complex, we should listen to the duty-bearer, we should think about how to create a comet -- a body that would do the most today -- stopped the economic cry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u104	Please, Lechchenka, behind him is Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u105	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, we have already lost track of how much we spend on these out-of-order and out-of-work meetings, and so little. One part of Parliament, which has led people out on the street and it wants to solve its affairs by force, wants to resolve the legitimates through Parliament and does not allow us to work properly. So let their leader, who is hiding somewhere, come here and say what they want and what they will do. And I think that's how our Communist faction deputies feel that we have to follow arrangements. And the deal is to make a signal vote, then, if it's positive, so to speak, the results, then go to a batch vote for three bills and decide on these issues. If the hall doesn't agree today, then let's move it to tomorrow, let's get back to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u106	Please, Dobkin, follow him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine has consistently kept its promises. [[Joint]] Today we voted and supported the inclusion of the Presidential Election Amendment Act on the agenda. That is why we insist that all other factions also consistently support what Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik has proposed: move the decision on all the remaining issues to tomorrow by 9 a.m. Today, close the session and allow the Conciliation Council to come up with a coherent solution and prepare tomorrow a single option that supports the entire Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u108	Please, Quickly passes the word to Frost, followed by Pluto.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I repeat my proposal to support the version proposed by Victor Pinzenik. We've actually decided right now that we've taken a step that's important, understood for people who stand on the streets that the Elections Act will be democratic, it won't allow for falsification. We'll vote it tomorrow at nine o'clock. And let Vladimir Mikhailovich agree with the President in the meantime to sign it here. And then we're voting for changes to the Constitution, and other documents, including the composition of the CBC. I think it would be good for everyone and, by the way, it would be good for society. Let's do this, but it all depends on how the Conciliation Council works. It is therefore necessary for faction leaders to come to the Conciliation Board. If he is able to invite Yashchenk, let him come here, because I understand he's being objective right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u110	Please, Pluto. After him, Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Zarubin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u112	Please, Lukyanenko. After him, Stanecki. I still remember the national MPs in my face.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u113	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Please give the floor to the head of the Ukrainian Republican Party, the Sobor, Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u114	Please, it's Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u115	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues, I am one of the authors of Bill 6372, and I want to ask you to listen to the proposal of Frost and Sobolev, and to understand that if we don't adopt this law today, it will be impossible for us to organize elections. Because it contains standards that must be implemented immediately. And if this law doesn't come into force tomorrow, then we're going to work with the same CBC, the same DVC and the territorial commissions. And the second. I think we need to support the initiative that has been made here, and we really need to vote an act of mistrust on the part of the President, because everything that is going on in this room today is due to the inaction of the so-called guarantor of the Constitution. And maybe this act will reconcile us, and we can do something in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u116	Please, Stanecki, Nadara.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u117	Please pass on the word of the Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u118	Smooth mics, please. Please tell me your microphone is on. Yes, as long as the Gladys find out where he's sitting, please, Nadrag. Oh, dear, then the Gladys. Well, Gladys, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u119	Smooth, Hard Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know how the proverb is, the morning of the evening is wiser. We've been going out for three days in the evening, another day in the morning. Perhaps we should change that proverb and make a decision at night. I'm talking to our Ukraine. If you're a professional you're systematic, you know that the law needs to be passed today in order for at least two days to be worked out by CTC and the rest needs to be done by the district commission. So let's not take the time and take the package today! Package tonight!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u120	Please, Nadrag, Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! I think the biggest problem that exists in our room is the lack of mutual trust. We're somewhere trying to count on each other, somewhere we hope to be deceived, not given a word and everything else. I think it might be the only way out of this. Only in batch voting will we be able to take into account the interests of all. And based on that logic, I think we should go to the proposal and the position that Vladimir Mihajlovich has expressed. And his position is, if there's any chance of an agreement, we should try to do it. Today, he proposes to take a time-out and come out tomorrow. I think it's the right thing to do, and that makes sense. On one small condition, we still have to go to a batch vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u122	Razwadowski is behind him, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u124	Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u125	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear friends! You've just seen how many votes we've included in the draft law amending the Presidential Elections Act. People in Ukraine want fair elections. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sure Leonid Kuchma wants an honest election too. I'm sure Janukovic should understand that he's more comfortable with that law about fair elections, that no one needs an illegal victory, and he doesn't want Victor Yushchenko. So I would ask you, let's see the results of the discussion. Let's put to the vote the issue of the adoption of the law now amending the election of the President of Ukraine. If the President signs it, it will definitely unlock tomorrow's path to the adoption of any other package. I would ask you to ensure that this law is signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u126	Please, Shevchuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u127	Thank you. I'd like to give the floor to the Zarubinsky Oleg People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u128	Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that there is now such a bad situation when fair and fair elections become the object of the sale. That bill, which is designed to eliminate the basic channels of counterfeiting and distortion of the results of will-making and which has just voted for by the constitutional majority of the vote, well, apart from some factions that are obviously not satisfied with fair and fair choices, I think it's the exact part that can consolidate those people who want honesty and justice in re-voting. And in this regard, I think it would be absolutely appropriate today to decide about this bill and to allow it to really work for those who will be directly involved in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-07-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We exchanged thoughts. Please mobilize. I'm also asking representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine," and others, dear colleagues, we have two proposals. I will now pronounce them and in the order of coming we shall vote them. First offer. To follow the procedure defined by the Conciliation Board. We've included Bill 6372 in the agenda. One minute, dear colleagues, we put Bill 6372 in order. Now we could do that. As we agreed, a signal vote will be held to demonstrate the willingness of the people of Ukraine to vote in a package of documents 6372, 3207-1, 4180. But I would like to ask your attention, fellow Members, to note the fact that, in the transitional situation, there is a point in the comprehensive vote on the specificities of the law on the elections of the President of Ukraine in the final positions. Please note, this law takes effect from the day it was published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, which does not take place until the day of the official publication of the Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution and is no longer valid on the day following the day of the entry into office of the newly elected President of Ukraine. That is, we must make a binding decision. If we have this binding decision, if we do not take it, it is a binding decision, then we postpone Bill 4180 for a year, as well as for the next 6372 session. This is a very responsible moment. That's if the supply when we're working today is what we've defined the previous one. Another, respected colleague, made a proposal. I'll have the consultations in the morning. I understand they'll be late in the morning. Well, I'll put everything on the vote, let the Supreme Council determine. I know someone wants it sooner, but let's let the Supreme Council do it. And tomorrow morning, we'll have a meeting. The President of Ukraine is ready to come to Parliament here and sign those bills that we will accept in a packet in the presence of the people's deputies, namely: 6372, the next is 4180. And right now, we assign, we consider and we make decisions about CBC. With regard to the release of the active composition of the CLTC, there is already a decision. Other submissions tonight will come to the Supreme Council, and we will have the opportunity to conduct first the rating vote and then the final vote on the candidates for the CLTC. If it's an algorithm. Once again, the Supreme Council has made its decision regarding government. So let's not talk about this anymore. That's different. Let's bring it in now. Well, I understand that all revolutionaries. That's different. Let's make changes to the Constitution and foresee in these constitutions: if the Supreme Council resigns the government and the President doesn't sign, automatically enters into action within three days. Then we'll act in a legitimate way -- no questions asked. Let's do it. Therefore, respectable colleagues. What, what? Oh, no. Come on, come on, I'll do it again, I'm begging you, don't bother. Once again, I, my dear colleagues, would like to put to the vote what procedure we will work in. Now I'm going to put the vote to work on this procedure, the first proposal we've agreed on at the Conciliation Council. I mean, we're voting now if we follow this procedure. After the signal vote takes place, we vote on the package and sign the decision. In this case, I guarantee you, once again, I want to tell everyone that first of all, well, calm down that Bill 6372 will be signed first. Then the law on making changes to the Constitution. If we don't make a package decision, that's what we agreed on, then we're going to go to every specific bill. May I have your attention, please? This is the first proposal agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. Second offer. In order for us to make a decision that would set up the Supreme Council, to bring peace to Ukrainian society, to consolidate regions so that you can make a decision that would show that we have no winners and winners, to meet tomorrow at 10 a.m. and to vote in agreement. In the coming order, I'm going to put these proposals to the vote. The Supreme Council will be defined as, we will act. The first sentence is put to the vote. Whether to continue working now to consider the procedure I said. First. Signal vote. After that, a full vote, if there is a signal vote and if there is no vote, will proceed separately to the consideration of each bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:06:08]] For-26 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine", "Regions of Ukraine", Communists, SDPU, SPU, zero. National Agrarian - 1, Block Timoshenko - 19, Labour Ukraine - 2, Sou-1, Only Ukraine - 0, NDP and industrialists and entrepreneurs - 2, Center - 0, Democratic initiatives - 0, Postfaction - 1. Now, here's the next offer. Tomorrow, dear colleagues. First offer. I want to put her to the vote so that tomorrow we can hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, start work at 10 o'clock and not a minute later without any breaks. Please vote on this proposal. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:07:10]] For 432 Why don't we vote on the package? Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. All I'm asking right now is the heads of the MPs and the factions at 6:30 p.m. to meet in the third floor. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
