ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. It'll be 410. Please register. [[16:03:03:03]] There were 415 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. We continue to implement today’s agenda. We need to make a decision, a decision to recommend parliamentary hearings, a state and problems of the legal and social status of modern Ukrainian labour migration. [[Registration number 6401]] From the Committee Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Vitaly Jakovitch Šibko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I remind you that the situation and problems of the legal and social status of modern Ukrainian labour migration were discussed at parliamentary hearings on November 17th this year. We listened carefully to all interested ones. The Ministry of Labour, scientists, has been represented here, and there have been many recommendations for you that have been made at this meeting. By the way, it was noted that for the first time at these parliamentary hearings, we were able to listen to everyone who wanted to participate in these hearings. And when we got all of this together, we tried to sum it up, draft a decision and draft a recommendation, send out to all the individuals who were interested in the physical and legal, who took part in these hearings, reassembled their recommendations and made such a project. And on December 1st of this year, we've heard and approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take the above-mentioned decision, if you take the recommendations, talk about the recommendations, there are chapters here, I think they'll be interested in all the political groups that we have in the Supreme Council. This is the first to develop by 31 December of the following year a programme for regulating labour migration of Ukrainian citizens is proposed in the first such way, to further accelerate the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian Law on State Employment Programme 2005-2008, and to facilitate and accelerate amendments to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Labour Migration and Social Protection of Workers Migrant States of the SND States of 15.04. 94 years and so on. So we're also invited to develop several laws and adopt them to protect our citizens abroad, but the main thing that's written here in these recommendations is to create all the conditions for our people to work at home and make this emigration much smaller. Thank you for your attention. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u3	Yes. Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich, sit down, please. Yeah, from one, yeah, from the committee, not here, I don't understand. Is there a question? Skull microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u4	National deputy Shulga, Communist faction. I'm speaking at the same time, and on behalf of the Human Rights Committee, we're making this second point of determination, and the Committee and the faction, we don't agree with what's being proposed here: seeing the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, regulating labour migration processes is not effective enough. So it's an effective one, but it's a little bit inadequate. When we have seven million migrant workers abroad, which efficiency can be talked about, we propose both the committee and the faction to place an unsatisfying estimate here. In addition, at this point, we propose that we put first: to recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, of the Mineconomy and of European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u5	Right. So we're going to vote, first we're going to give it as a base, and then we're going to vote on the proposals and see what we can do. It's probably nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u6	Adam Ivanovich, I only have one comment. Which is what coordinates all of Minpraci's work, the Mineconomy to this little bit. That's why I'd like us to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u7	Vitalia Yakovich, let's put it in. I am voting on the Supreme Council's decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on "Stan and the legal and social status of modern Ukrainian and labour migration" as a basis. Please vote. [[16:08:37]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Let's not hold parliamentary hearings at all if we don't want to make decisions. Let us consider the matter of rereading the first reading. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the grounds and order of release of persons from custody]] Bill number 4309-d. Reported to the deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Marcus María Andriyovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, prepared by the National Deputies, members of the Committee on Law Enforcement. [[on the grounds and order of release of persons from custody]] On the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment, issued by the President of Ukraine, and the draft Act on Supplements and Amendments to Article 165 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, submitted earlier by me, which was reviewed on 24 June 2004 by the Supreme Council in the first reading together, and both were sent to the Committee for Complementation, followed by a review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a re-first reading. The committee processed them and made a bill. This bill is intended to harmonize the provisions of article 165 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code and article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment with articles 22 and 29 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms. The current edition of article 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonation stipulates that the release from custody is subject to the dismissal of persons in the event of closure of a case, the termination of a period of detention, if this term is not continued in the prescribed order and in other cases, only by a decision of a judge or a court. The implementation of these legislations in practice has led to the fact that a person whose need to keep a watch has long been lost for some time has generally continued to ten or more days to keep himself in custody in connection with appropriate judicial procedures. While it is clear that the removal of a person from custody is not limited to his constitutional rights, it is also clear that the judicial control in such cases is not limited to the activities of the authorities investigating the case, nor is it necessary for the prosecutor, especially since it objectively leads to gross violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens as a result of their unlawful detention in pre-trial detention facilities, provided for by valid legislation. With a view to removing the identified inadequacies that create legislative preconditions for violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, the draft Law proposes to supplement article 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code with a new part, a third part, and part two of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment, to put in a new edition. Considering that the implementation of the bill would contribute to strengthening the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a review of the draft in a re-first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u9	Yes, thank you. Are there any questions? Yes. Please sign in. Let's see it on the monitors. Please, three minutes. Trophimen, prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u10	I'm sorry, I didn't press my card.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u11	Yeah, that's clear. Please, Melniczuk, prepare for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u12	Dear Mary Andriyevna! Of course, this bill must be supported, and it must be accepted. But tell me, please, you have all this information, how many of these violations are there, say, when the courts don't deal with the case, and people sit on the stand year after year just because the court can't handle a case. I wanted to. Why am I asking that question? In Chernivka, I was looking into the case of the Kalinian entrepreneurs, who had been ordered to be kept in custody for almost a year. Then we'll consider the case, and, we'll say so, I don't think I doubt that the court has made a legal decision, but they've condemned them. Who could say today that compensation should be paid to such citizens who are under guard, and at the expense of whom? But I'm going back: do you have any information as to how many people have been held in custody illegally?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u13	Dear colleague, you have asked me questions about how such people are held up for over a year. Such information, where it's about more than a year of illegal detention, I know it's happened, but how many of them there are, in fact, no statistics at hand right now, but it's about where, for example, people were arrested for serious crimes, and then it turns out that there's no criminal element, there's a redefinition. And people who were illegally kept in custody accounted for the part they spent under guard. The time spent in custody is included in the unspent part of the punishment, and, virtually, this latent, hidden illegal detention is legalized. So the bill is also directed that if the investigator has no time or is afraid to approach the prosecutor with what he knows is that the case has been investigated or inadequate, or perhaps there is no reason to keep a person in custody, then the person continues to be in detention for a long time, under the watch illegally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u14	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u15	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u16	The school knows what to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u17	Thank you. Maria Andriyevna, I've been, you know, worried about this, and not once. And we discussed it several times on the committee. Of course, we will support this bill. I just want to say one thing: how much does the adoption of this bill simplify the lives of people who are not in custody, because every person needs to know that prisons and sums don't be denied. I think it's this bill that needs to be clearly regulated by legislation, not as before, the imperial process of keeping a person in custody. And one more thing about statistics. In Ukraine, there are only two and a half thousand people in one Kyiv isolation. So this is a very large sum, even for the city of Kiev. It's under guard, people aren't yet guilty. I have a question: Will it solve the issue of people who are currently in custody illegally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u18	Of course, Your Honor, this will largely resolve the issue, because even with article 20 of the Ukrainian Prison Act, as well as with amendments to 165, there will be an additional right to be released from custody if a person is kept there beyond the terms on which he was arrested, or, let's say, if the reasons for which he was held have fallen off, and ultimately, he is still being held without sufficient grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u19	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Let's take 12 minutes. Mironenko. After him, Yavorowski. Mironenko's getting fired. Yes, Yavorowski. Then please, Karmazin. Behind him is Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u20	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I watched and studied carefully this bill, which began with Bill 4309. If you mention it, this bill was tabled by the President. It was the President who first proposed to amend the law on prior imprisonment, but did not propose to make any changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, and then in the course of the discussion, we said that if we were to ask questions, we should ask questions in this way. Today I can tell you that I have great fears. I ask Adam Ivanovich, as presiding officer, to have a little discipline in the hall is difficult to cry out. The current edition of article 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison Prisons stipulates that a person's release from custody should the case be closed, the end of a period of detention in the event that the term has not been extended in accordance with the legal order and in other cases, shall be effected only by a decision of the judge or the court. This is perfectly consistent with the constitutional provisions on judicial control that must be. And when we talk about whether we're going to improve the situation or not, we're talking about relevance. In my opinion, this bill will only be directed at one thing -- to hide and hide from the courts the very cases where violent violations of existing legislation have been committed. When thousands of people are in custody with extended terms and do not change their precautions at the same time. And so there's another formula in this bill, which is immediately reported by the court that chose this precautionary measure. I mean, in this case, there's how to hide either the investigator or the prosecutor, how to hide from the court that there's a criminal case. From the point of view of human rights, I don't think that's entirely correct. But do we still have the judgment we want to have? We see that he is born and is quite possible. Thus, in the first reading, you can be accepted, but with great, great fears, foresight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u21	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Melniczuk Mikhailo. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u22	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to thank Maria Andriyevni Marcus for preparing the bill. That's what those millions of people are waiting for, we're going to talk, people who have passed isolation and we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about, So what this bill is proposing, it has the goal of amending article 165 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code and article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment, to align these rules with the requirements of articles 22 and 29 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms when releasing a person from pre-trial detention, since the existing order for the resolution of the matter in court leads to the illegal finding of a person in custody for 3, 10 and more days, I have already spoken for 9 months in the Montenegrin region. I'd like to, dear friends, why I'm setting an example for the Blacks. My, these entrepreneurs approached me, turned to their families, and asked me when I, as Ukrainian national deputy, had no support from the judges, from the leadership of the Chernobyl Court of Appeal. Despite the fact that the D.A. for nine months has been dragging the facts, abusers have been threatening families to give a witness not for the benefit of these entrepreneurs, and it's not the law that won it, but what was ordering them, they're condemned. And that's why I think that this bill, despite the fact that we don't have enough power in this room. But I ask you to support the Bill of Mary Andrew Marcus. To support because this person has risked and will be, I will say that not one person, but tens of thousands of people in Ukraine will be grateful for this bill, which we will adopt today as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u23	Andrew School, please prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u24	Andrew School, Timoshenko Cell Block. I would like to stress, first of all, that this bill needs to be approached, not even by a national MP, not even by a lawmaker, but by a person who, like everyone here, listens, or national MPs, can face the problems that the bill is covering. I mean, first of all, it's an illegal arrest. Because illegal arrests would rather be the rule of the last ten years. Because the main indicator of the activities of the investigating authorities was not the number of cases solved, but very often the number of arrests and arrests. And after the man was illegally arrested, he held back for a long time, not for a month, not for two, but for a year, for two, for three. There are four and a half years later, the people in the detention cells were released and released by the court only for the simple reason that the court counted what was served in the investigative isolation as punishment. This was the case with the court’s decision. But did this make it easier for him to be imprisoned? Compensation is actually the thing that was the rule in Ukraine. If a person was under guard illegally, it would compensate for the loss of a State, but it is often compensated by international courts. Ukraine’s image suffers, and its international authority suffers. And all of this is because of the negligence of one another, because of the cover-up of the other. That is, the negligence of the investigators and the prosecution of the already inexorable investigating courts. Therefore, direct and direct responsibility must be borne by those guilty — the one who unlawfully arrested. I wouldn't want people's mouths to be spoken by their former professions. We don't have to explain the bill here from the prosecutor's office. He clearly, clearly, and clearly arguments the order of things. So the investigator saw, understood, fired the man because there's no evidence. Now, even if he did see, even if he understood, he's dropping the case, and the judge is already deciding. So I stress, the bill is good, it's clearly worked on a committee where I have the honour to work. And I have to say, thank you, not only will those who have encountered law enforcement structures or their relatives say thank you to every citizen, because that's one example of quality legislation. So I call on all the MPs to support the bill and to support all those who are in the hall and, above all, the MPs they represent today. In short, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u25	Please, Javorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Yavorov, Zovva Dear colleagues, I am absolutely convinced that fate in this law will be good. And as my predecessors who were standing on this rostrum have testified, that very often talking about a law or a law brings us together, and that's perfectly natural for politicians to discuss the general theme on which this bill is designed. I am convinced that he is very keenly intruding into the human rights system, especially those who are usually in trouble or have committed or committed a crime. It's very important. I am generally convinced that sooner or later, but we must come to a standard that if a person is arrested and found to be innocent of anything, the person who arrested must be held literally liable. Then we just avoid some of the huge abuses that we have today. Each of us national deputies, perhaps not twice, met this question a hundred times when people who had been illegally endured in the shop came, ruining their biography of life and even health very often, and in fact no one ever bore any responsibility. I would also like to remind you of the same Julia Timoshenko, our colleague who was held in prison, and it turns out that the case is sewn with white threads and is purely political, because I am convinced that if the authorities had something against Julia Timoshenko, they would have rotted it long ago, and no one would have gone anywhere. They just don't have any reason, even though they're spinning, they're running Interpol on this. Or, let's say that episode, I've talked about it before, and somewhere in my author's program, even on the radio, I've been talking about Vasil Mushka, the former head of the Kragrotechservis, who's been completely unwarranted for over a year, and no one even apologized to him for the fact that the case was really sewn with white threads. It seems to me that we are now democratizing our reeducation system, as it were, so to speak, so to speak. It seems as if we are preparing for those who will be put up after the presidential election to have much softer laws, and perhaps we need to make some repairs in the prisons somewhere, or we need to make such a marathon, I think it would be very and very appropriate. Because of this bill, I think we're going to vote. We have enough brains and hands to vote for him, for together we cannot overcome many of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the grounds and order of release of persons from custody. Bill number 4309-d. Please vote. [[16:30:16.]] For 273 Decision taken. As he spoke, Karmazin said he had an objection. Yes, let's move on to the chapter on inclusion. I repeat, there is a denial, including a scientific one. Please do not direct the High Council. You sit here, you'll drive. Yes, let's go to the chapter on inclusion in the agenda of the session. Question 6397. Please, Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I'm asking for two minutes right now, because I'm going to speak under two laws: 6397 and 6396. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u29	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u30	Oh, three, that's all. First, I ask that these laws be transposed because they require some agreement. And there's no expert opinion for 6397, it will. It's at price. With regard to Law 6396, this is a more serious matter. I am well aware that the interests of the masters have been met today, especially the privileges. And here came what I heard on "Era" today, on television this morning, when the representative of "Rudprom" is speaking, saying that we need something, the metalworks, and that he has no means of resuscitation, and in order to maintain the normal state of the equipment -- the Dry Balka and the Yugoka -- it shocked me as a person. You'll think about the numbers: Dry Balka sells "Private" is an energy alliance of 50 grevens, the price of a ton of ore. Listen! Pinzenik, please listen! She sold us 90 bracelets, then 127 bracelets, now she wants to sell 161 bracelets! He's got 110 grevens in his pocket and 1 per cent in the Dry Balkans. I'm saying, listen, how many of these thieves are going to be in Ukraine, and how much money are they going to be taking here? I understand after this speech, I need to think about how I'm going to live to be on Tuesday or Wednesday, because now the women are going to throw me out, probably to get shot. But how long can it take? I want to be made mandatory in a number of factions, including the faction of our Ukraine, to show that neither the iliches, not the bottom-ups, nor the alchemists, nor Zaporoztal. It's not a lobbyist law. This law shows what we have adopted here in the Supreme Council, the law on privatization. The proma, which created monopolism, which is being negotiated today and which is not only harmful to metalworking combinations, is damaging to Ukraine's entire population economy. I'm sure I'll prove it in numbers and show it. I could tell you a lot here and what we see. But you're done playing. May your conscience wake up, my dear. Can we even take money for this? Excuse me! I'm sure those laws will pass and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u31	Yes, dear colleagues, so we have the problem removed because they are not included in the agenda. We heard the argument. So Bills 6397 are passed on when the agreement is made, and 6396. They're not on the order of the day, so we're on them. We know how it should be without you, Terjehochin. Don't help, we know how it's supposed to be. Yes, now we're going to consider: the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. We need to put in a day-to-day bill number 6363. Please vote. [[16:35:16]] For 135 No decision taken. Please sign up, three minutes. Please, Carmazine. Cowchenko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to consider today the issues that are included in the agenda. Then there will be no conflict in the hall, all questions will go well. So order is now "under reduced procedure." You look at them, we look at them, we make decisions. These issues, which need to be reconciled between factions, need to be reconciled between factions. And now we want to sell in a far-out hall, despite the fact that our registration is only on cards, Adam Ivanovich. So I'd like to ask you now to start looking at the issue of "short procedure" and not to waste our precious time. And so please your fellow national MPs: let's save this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u33	Please, Kravchenka. Behind him, Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, well, if the people's deputies have asked this question, I believe that it should be included, voted on, discussed. And there's no reason. Another matter that we will decide on, but to include it on the agenda for consideration, I believe it is necessary. And, Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you about the previous bill that we passed. I believe that the Supreme Council, the leadership of the Supreme Council, should have the following in mind. We are getting involved, for example, in the Ilic combination, the entire Supreme Council is getting involved in very serious price-related discussions. The Cabinet of Ministers, aware that clans are going through these clans, is going through these clans, and they're pulling it all in. The entire metal industry complex in price change. This has had very serious consequences. Therefore, I would ask the leadership of the Supreme Council, at the first address of Boyko and Matvienkov, as the authors of the bills, to bring them to our consideration so that we are clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u35	Please, Shershun. I can't see. Is it? Yeah, you just got locked up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u36	We're closed. I ask you to pass the word to Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u37	Please, Vashtuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, I believe that the author of the law has the right to say his point of view. Why did we pass this law? Today, the tax situation of agricultural producers is changing dramatically. At the same time, the budget does not provide, as promised, for replacements. If we do that, the trends that the little ones have noticed are that at least some of the farms are just going to break down, and we're going to have a terrible collapse in the agrarian sector next year. I don't think anyone needs that. It's an absolutely tolerant law that we can adopt in the first reading, work out, uncollect all the points and solve the issues essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u39	Yes, Your Honor, there is an offer to return to this issue in order to include in the agenda and today consider the bill of the Bill of Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the taxation of agricultural enterprises]] Bill number 6363. And we're going to have some more suggestions there. Please vote. [[16:39:56]] For 185 The question is not included. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 37, Regions - 16, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 5, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 1, Block Timoshenko - 17, Union - 3, only Ukraine - 0, Centre - 0, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 10, Deminiciative - People's Government - 8, Postfraction - 12 Dear colleagues! Don't rape me. Twice voted, no. Work with factions. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the calculation of pensions]] This is registration number 5760. Please vote. [[16:41:09]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 14, Regions - 12, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 8, National Agrarian Party - 1,SPU - 15, Block Timoshenko - 15, Union - 7, Only Ukraine - 4, Center - 5, NDP, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 10, Deminiciative - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 9, Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u40	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd just like to remind our fellow national MPs about this bill. This is the bill that the National MP Samofalov has introduced, which provides for a reconciliation between the provisions of article 20 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, concerning the definition of the salary to which the pension of the National Deputy of Ukraine is calculated. And I would have asked if it wasn't for today, when we understood, we didn't vote in favour of putting this issue into order one day to move it to, to, to, to, to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u41	Pinzenic microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that, to an extreme extent, I don't have to deal with such laws when Ukraine is facing a problem: how to secure payment to pensioners at 284 levels, and I find it strange to hear the position of communists who care about their pensions, rather than taking care of the pensions of citizens. Because you know very well the discriminatory conditions in which our citizens are compared to individual categories of citizens, including MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u43	Yes. We're done here. At that end, I repeat, he didn't call his last name, you'll act, then you'll say, then you'll say. He didn't call his last name. Dear colleagues, please, Matthew, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u44	I thank you, Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I want to address our electorate first of all, to say to our citizens: this is a policy that is based only on letting people know how to vote. As the representative of the "Our Ukraine" Block. This is the faction that only by deception wants to come to power today. And today my predecessor is talking about the Communists passing this bill. I repeat, this is a lie. This bill has been introduced by the faction of a completely different national MP, Samofalov, and I represent it as the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u45	We need to put in order of the day and consider Bills No. 6052, 6052-1, Draft Laws on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons and Children with Disabilities. [[on payments]] Please vote on the inclusion of these issues in the agenda. [[16:45:58]] For 258. Questions are included in the agenda. So we're listening to a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Children and Children with Disabilities. [[Bill No. 6052]] Reported by national deputy Suškević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u46	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, dear friends. This project was developed by me and my colleague Peter Stepanovich Zibank. And the concept of this law is to agree on regulations that regulate the appointment and payment of state social assistance to children from childhood and children with disabilities. And that's the situation today. In connection with the pension reform, the Act on State Social Assistance for Persons Without the Right to Retirement and Persons with Disabilities was adopted. In this context, the standards adopted by this law do not comply with the law on State social assistance for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities from childhood. For example, under the Law on State Social Assistance for Persons with Unrepentant Retirement and Disabled Persons, the second, third group of persons with disabilities, who are also affected by childhood disabilities, are more than 10 percent of the aid to disabled persons from childhood of the second, third group. This is certainly not fair. The other one. The Ukrainian Act "On State Social Assistance to Persons Who Do Not Have a Pension", article 8, establishes state social assistance for the care of the second and third group's single, underprivileged persons and allocates it to a minimum of 15 per cent of the living for those who have lost their jobs. At the same time, for children with disabilities, the allowance is not anticipated at all. Third. On the basis of the Law on Stately Compulsory Retirement Insurance for Spoiled Homes of Interns while in full state custody, 25 percent of the assigned pension is granted to retirees, children of orphans - the full amount of the assigned pension due to the loss of a breadwinner, and other children - 50 percent of the assigned pension due to the loss of a breadwinner. And according to the law for children with disabilities, disabled persons pay only 20 percent of the assigned aid. That is, five percent less than pensioners. Children and pensioners, you see, in such a breakup. With a view to eliminating these legislative disagreements and increasing the state support of children with disabilities from childhood, our bill proposes to increase by 10 percent the assistance of disabled persons from the second, third group and to set it to 80 percent and 60 percent of the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. The other one. Set a 15 - percent minimum living allowance for the care of single, underprivileged persons in the second, third group. Third. Increase from twenty - five percent to twenty - five percent of the state social assistance to disabled children from childhood, who are in full national detention, and allow them to pay 50 percent for orphans living in dormitories and other children with disabilities. In doing so, a portion of the assistance that remains after payment is paid to children will be counted as bank accounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u47	Yeah, let's go into the Rules. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u48	In practice, counting these institutions into bank accounts will stimulate support for these sub-topics. Moreover, dear friends, it is proposed to prohibit the application of the minimum level of subsistence in determining the right to an allowance for care and the size of allowances for the care of disabled persons with disabilities and children with severe disabilities, i.e. bedridden, blind deaf people -- well, terrible types of disability, to maintain them at such a level to apply the minimum of living, rather than the minimum of living. And the last. To foresee the possibility of granting assistance in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities, together with State Aid, a pension with the loss of a breadwinner, because these funds were earned by a relative, one of those who held a child with disabilities. He died and, of course, this money belongs to a disabled child. Dear friends, the extra cost is 12 million. A year's worth of money. But in the state where children with disabilities are today, disabled children from childhood, it needs what is said to be the adoption of this law. The main scientific and expert office supported this legislative initiative. The Cabinet of Ministers in general also supported the bill. Please support children with disabilities from childhood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u49	Yes, please, let's go into the Rules, I won't be able to do that anymore. Yes, Bill 6052-1 will report to Gabrielk Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposed bill to amend article three of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Children and Children is designed to support families. who raise disabled people from childhood and children with disabilities. This can be done by providing them with guaranteed care for the disabled. Despite the recent changes to the above - mentioned law aimed at increasing material aid, the financial support of this population still remains at a level that makes it impossible for these families to exist properly. The current edition of article 3 of the law contains a rule according to which the allowance for care is fixed at the specified level only on the condition that the average monthly total income of a family in which a disabled child is raised in the previous six months does not exceed the subsistence minimum per family. In many cases, parents are deprived of this minimum aid because their small income exceeds the legal level, often just 3-4 bracelets. Therefore, the application of the subsistence minimum to those who have lost their capacity to determine the right to grant a child’s disability allowance has not justified themselves. The purpose of the proposed bill is to comply with the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, i.e. with the adoption of this law, it provides for the renewal of payments in the amount of payments established by law, guaranteed monthly assistance in the care of children with disabilities and disabled persons from childhood. This bill amends article 3 of this Ukrainian law, which establishes the right of one parent, adoptive parent, caregiver, caregiver who does not work and, in fact, care for a disabled child, under appropriate conditions receive an allowance for care. The proposed requirements for determining the right to an allowance for the care of children with disabilities will increase the number of recipients of state social assistance, which will require additional expenditure for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance for Disabled Persons and Children. In view of this, the bill is scheduled to enter into force on January 1, 2005, providing the necessary financial resources in the State budget for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the chief cost manager for the following year. The adoption of this bill will improve the material situation, ensure the quality of life and the emotional security of families who raise children with disabilities, which will reduce social tensions in society. This small supplement to the family budget, which is much smaller than the State spends on maintaining children with disabilities in boarding facilities, institutions that are able to preserve and slightly improve the material situation of families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u51	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? So let's do 12 minutes. Mironenko. After him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u52	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Crimea, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honourable People's Deputies, the Communist faction will support the first draft drafted by Suškevich and Cibenko. And there are great reasons for this: well-designed, and the proposals they make are very good for us. However, I would like to draw your attention to the following: Is this support sufficient? These proposals were made taking into account the situation, the possibility of law enforcement. But an increase of 10 per cent in the support of children with disabilities in the second and third groups is, of course, a small one. And, God forbid, we should take it anyway. Provision of a 15 per cent allowance to single disabled persons in the second and third groups who, according to the findings of the Advisory Commission, require permanent care. We also see little, but God willing to do it. And other proposals. In general, it is built in the light of the current poverty situation. In this regard, I would like to say, and who is to blame for us being in this terrible situation, which affects everyone, including those with disabilities, and those who are looking after persons with disabilities. Perhaps the representative of our Ukraine, who has been speaking and lying to the Company, who has been lying to these people all the time -- excuse me, for the first time, I will say that word -- "ours" -- is constantly lying because they claim capitalism, theft, privatization, the origin of the oligarchs. Most oligarchs now support the Presidential candidate Yushchenko. And these media are throwing dirt at communists, and they're actually lying about the current situation. Notice, the most screaming representative right now, he was the vice-premier. He was the prime minister, he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u53	Yes, Victor Andriyovich, closer to the law!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u54	I'm on the subject! In the situation he's led to. So, he's got a price break, he's got a certificate privatization that's done away with the State budget -- you're talking, not on the subject! - in the State budget. We're talking about that. He's guilty and he's lying all the time. He convinces people and God forbid he will defeat this candidate. I'm telling you honestly, don't let God. Price leave will be again, privatization will be again, poverty will be restored to Gosbudget, disability will be missed, teachers, doctors, pensioners, Chernobylers will be missed. Social programmes will not be implemented and the economy will not develop. There is much to be done on the lie, but progress in the country cannot be achieved, and the dignity of the people cannot be achieved. That is why I am addressing Ukrainian citizens. Be vigilant, do not be deceived again after 1991, vote in favour of the Single Economic Space against the NATO border in the east, against Ukraine's NATO entry, and you all know who is behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u55	Yes, please, the Yavorov microphone from the place. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u56	Vladimir Yavorowski, Rava-Russka, Dubljani, Novoyavorysk, Janov, Viktor Yushchenka. Dear colleagues say that problems are divided into two categories: large. Little troubles, they're strangers' troubles, and big troubles are our own troubles. Obviously, this is how we should approach these laws, the subject that we are discussing today. I believe that we all vote for them because all of our troubles, all of our problems -- both big and small -- are usually instantaneous to the problems of parents who have disabled children, and especially to the problems of these children themselves, who are deprived of the joy of life. I am convinced and I ask everyone to vote for this, I am convinced that the Lord God will be there somewhere for this vote to be lifted from each one of us for any small or great sin. I think that God will take away the sins that he has just committed while he is in the rostrum. Because of this fellow Mironenko, I will say that we are not insolvent, we are Ukrainians on our own land, we are many and we cannot be overcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u57	Please, Karmazin. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear friends! I'm not going to ask you, Adam Ivanovich, you have lines, although in the word "ours," I take it they wanted to humiliate me, too, a member of the faction of "our Ukraine." I don't think you're going to humiliate anyone with that word, dear friends, you're going to humiliate yourself, because you're going to see that term "ours" you've rented exactly where the 7th of November holiday is. It's a Russian term, it's taken from there. Look who he's running for, how long he's running for. If you don't know, I'll give you more help with that. So what I'm saying is that when you disgrace Victor Yushchenk from this rostrum, when you realize that he failed to kill some representative, you'll soon know who didn't get killed, now you won't humiliate him. Your Honor, is this how you intend to help another candidate? You won't help him, why? Because when you take the Deputy Prime Minister of this government, who is headed by your beloved Prime Minister, you will see that they agree with the conclusions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And it says that Minfin doesn't support the draft law on change. I mean, if you have to give people with disabilities 15 percent of their living minimum, and that's a change to Article 3, "Purchasing Care," they don't support that. And you support them in this way indirectly, even though you want to sound white and fluffy. You can't do that, dear friends. I'm in favour of being adopted on the first reading of both the bill and the second bill. Because they don't contradict each other. The second bill Mr. Bitchkov passed, I thank him, too. Like the National Deputy Suškević, on behalf of all those with disabilities who address me, it only applies to the disabled children of first group childhood and the first part of article 3, for everything. At a time when the Suškević bill is much larger, it refers to making changes to several articles of this law and articles 1 and 2 and 3 where the allowance for care is given. Finally, article 13, where payments are made to persons with disabilities who are in full national security. Is it 12 million, or is it a year's worth? I want to tell you that we are now investigating the terrible facts of bribes that have been given to this electoral company. I can assure you that only one hand was given the nabo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u59	Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u60	Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our faction supports the bill, its essence is very clear in the speeches of my colleagues who have spoken before me, and I will not waste any time teaching the essence of this bill again. It is essential and we seem to be independent of our political preferences and the disputes that have arisen in discussing the previous bill for this. Of course, we vote. And I want the time that I have left to make two short lines: one directed to a faithful student of the world bank and an inter-currency, an international currency fund, one of the leaders of the oranges, who was so perfunctory about an underprivileged Ukrainian pensioner who seemed to want to be robbed by communists. I want to remind the representatives of this political power. I understand that in addition to a deputy's salary or pension, you get more grants from those sources that come to Ukraine, from those institutions and centers, non-governmental organizations that are created here. And these grants you eat, you eat, and you're going to eat for a lot more than even that MP's salary and pension. Make sure you don't choke. That's the first one. And the second. I want to say to that thing that one of the deputies here called out from his place of work, "There's a lot of us we can't get through." The people have this answer: "You have many to treat." Be healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, I ask you to use parliamentary terms. Melniczuk has two minutes. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u62	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear friends, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Let's make this a little bit of a standstill. I support the bill proposed by Mr. Suškević and reported by Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk. And that bill and that bill, it's true, another 6051 marks one, it's more perfect. And I think it's more specifically reflecting what the problem is today. But I'd like to call today's hall. My dear friends, let's stop blaming each other for something. On the 26th let the people determine without insisting on who they were and who they are. Let us give this to the people of Ukraine. And I want to say, "There are many of us -- we can't get through" -- it wasn't one Yavorovsky or another person, it was the people of Ukraine who were chanting. Let's still support the people of Ukraine. It will not be possible for the people to express their will because we give him some appreciation. And let's focus our attention, once again, on the bill. As a matter of fact, Adam Ivanovich, I wanted you to give me 6363 bills. Why? Because he was going in 6165, 6363. And then you could find a common language in this room and vote, and you could adopt these two bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u63	I think we'll find it on the Conciliation Council. Yes, please, I'm still a long way from the procedure. I missed the committee report. So please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko of the profile committee on these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u64	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Zibenko. Dear colleagues, first of all, what I would like to say on behalf of the committee is to thank all those who have taken part in this discussion. And to say that when we prepare for second reading, we're going to try to make the most of the comments, the wishes, the help that was expressed in the speeches of the national MPs. Ukraine. As far as the problem is concerned, I'd like to say that it's really quite difficult to compare people with people with disabilities, but even though I'd like to say that until recently, children with disabilities were, if you can say so, the most neglected category of people with disabilities. In 2001, it was the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons that adopted the basic law. And that's when the phased solution to disability problems began. I'd like to say that we were moving on this path one step at a time. And already this year, we have managed to take tangible steps towards improving the material and economic situation of children with disabilities and disabled children from childhood and those families with children with disabilities. Thus, the committee, after careful consideration of the bills, made some comments to them, and there are observations. And he's offering to take into account the observations that have been made both during the committee discussion and were made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and by scientific and expert management. Nevertheless, all these comments will be taken into account when processing the document for second reading. The committee is now proposing to receive the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u65	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Please, Mironenko, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u66	Mironenko. When representatives of the capitalist force, the pro-American force currently serving the Presidents of Ukraine, the force that has been conducting universal privatization since 1991, freeing prices, tariffs, robbing people, speaks of God, I am very sad. And God will not forgive anyone who says that. Secondly, when these people talk about how many of us can't overcome us, we are Ukrainians, I think that these are liars and evils, because Ukrainians all over Ukraine live, and now divide those who came here and call them people, that is wickedness and wickedness, for the people all over Ukraine and most people are against President Yushchenko's candidate. You don't have to lie to people about what people do. Here come those who believe or are deceived or receive money and, in the meantime, how much was it? Let's make it even one and a half million. But the population of Ukraine is 47 million.Oh, my God! Why lie?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u67	Yeah, we'll figure it out. Dear Suškević, you have reported, please do not take advantage of your abilities. Your procedure will not change anything, you see that the hall is set up to support the bill. And you just want time to stretch or prove again, like we do who loves whom? If the hall were to resist, then you could scream out of the procedure. But you can see that the hall supports you. What other procedure do you need? Move the vote or something? For the reasons of the vote, please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u68	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, now some regular know-how will be used to consider these very important bills. First, the word for the report was given not to the author of Bill 6052-1, the national deputy of Bitchkov, who is absent today, by the way, in the hall, and secondly, I am even more sorry that the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules, who should be on the watch for his strict compliance, has gone to this violation of the Rules. Let us, Adam Ivanovich, not spread such shameful practices in the work of the higher authority of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the head of the committee is right, I was misled. He went up to Bitchkov and asked him not to report it, but to report it to Gabrieluk. I believed him that Gabrieluk was one of the co-authors of the bill, so I had no idea. And as it turns out, there's only one bill author. Thus, the first deputy chairman of the committee helped to disgrace the first deputy head of the Supreme Council. It won't happen again. Yes, we will, Your Honor, be determined. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons and Children. [[on payments]] Bill 6052. Please vote. [[17:13:43]] For 289 The bill was passed. Bill number 6052-1 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:14:10]] For-187 This bill is being rejected. The factions, please. Vassil Vasilovich, you've let me down once. Don't scream, please. "Our Ukraine" - 57, "Ukrainian Regions" - 28, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 5, People's Agrarian Party - 12, SPI - 17, "One Ukraine" - 11, Block Timoshenko - 11, "Soyuz" - 9, "Centre" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 7, "True Ukraine" - 8, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 9, "Afterfraction" - 13. Let's get to it. Gabrieluk, don't rehearse! You won't get the word today. Please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I ask you very much about this law of Bockov. This bill makes very substantial changes to the right to an allowance for children with disabilities. I realize that there has been a sad mistake from different circumstances, and I don’t want to do it. Adam Ivanovich, I suggest you re-read it. Please. This is an important bill that needs to be saved. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u71	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u72	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, listen, please. I have this offer. Since the second bill didn't get the right number of votes, but there's a rational grain, the committee will try everything rational, normal, business-related, and take into account when processing the document for second reading, and so we'll solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u73	Thank you. So let's give a protocol commission to the profile committee so that when preparing for the second reading of the bill that has gained the necessary number of votes, the smart, rational grains that are in that bill that has not received support. Do we have a deal? Okay, thanks. Let's move on to section "In summary procedure." There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology on the Restructuring of the Ministry of Science and Technology. Registration number 5566. Reported by the Minister of Education and Science, Vasil Grigorovitch Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In an edition of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technical Activities, dated December 1, 1998, the mandate to ensure the implementation of state policy in the field of science and science and technology is attached to the Ministry of Science and Technology. Today, after a series of restructurings, the Ministry of Education and Science exercises these powers. The Ministry of Science and Technology is not known. Thus, it was necessary to bring the relevant laws into line with existing practice. In accordance with modern standards, it is proposed that the words "the Ministry of Science and Technology of Ukraine" be replaced by the words "the Central Executive Authority in the field of scientific and scientific and technological innovation." That's the first change. The other one. In order to define the legal economic and organizational principles of the creation of a system for predicting and developing scientific and technological innovation on this basis, two more moments are proposed for the development of science and technology and innovation. First. To strengthen the mandate of the central executive body in the field of scientific, scientific and technological innovation in the organization of the forecasting of trends in scientific and technological and innovative development and the development of priorities in the development of science and technology and innovation. And the second. To the direction of state policy in the field of science and science and technology, which is provided by the State to add an organization to predict trends in scientific and technological development and innovation. for medium term and long term terms. Making these changes to the law on science and science and technology will make it possible to step up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u75	Vasil Grigorovitch, please wait. I make a remark to the national deputy Gabrieluk, who prevents the holding of meetings. Please take your place. Please continue, Vasil Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u76	I would like to conclude by allowing these changes to strengthen the expertise and information component of the executive bodies. Please support the bill and thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u77	Have a seat, please. Yes, from the committee of the Yukhnovski Igor Rafailovich, please. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! I have nothing left to add to what the minister said. The committee fully supports the word all that the minister said. I ask you to vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It's a purely technological bill. Let's support it. I'm voting on adoption as a basis and as a whole, as the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities on the Restructuring of the Ministry of Science and Technology. [[Registration number 5566]] Please vote. [[17:20:28]] For the 250. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! The following was due to see Bill 3343 of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. [[on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate]] But given that we have recently adopted changes to the Constitution of Ukraine and have resolved these problems, the drafter of the bill, in this case it is the National MP of the Shpak Vasil Fedorovich who asks that this issue be constitutionally settled, not to consider the matter, and he is absolutely right. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Service Act, registration number 5443. [[on the use of national language]] Cloud reporter Stepan Ilchi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u80	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! This law needs to be considered in connection with the introduction of Ukrainian legislation with the Constitution of Ukraine and is long overdue in order to make appropriate changes and, in particular, in this law, it fits, this Act proposes to be supplemented by Article 5th and Article 12th of the State Service Act. The law is absolutely in line with our Constitution 10 articles and, by the way, there is no country in the world where there are such differences as we have in legislation. That is why, through this bill, we want to correct the situation and bring the Act into line with the Constitution of Ukraine and to harmonize our legislation with international legal acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u81	Thank you, sit down, Stephen Illich. Dear colleagues, there's a next bill that also touches that language. Draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the use of national language, Bill No. 5681 of the People's Deputies of Skamarovski. I think we all have reason to unify the discussion of these bills. Is there any objection? From the Committee, please, Oluiko, on both bills, please. Four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u82	The State Building Committee, the local self-government, reviewed the draft legislation, amended the Law on State Service, the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Public Prosecutions and the Law on Militia and made proposals, taking into account the conclusions of the General Expert Office and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, the Committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt legislation on the basis of entrusting the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government to work on it, taking into account the observations and proposals of the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative and to submit a second reading to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u83	Thank you, Vitalia Mikolaiovich, sit down, please. Please show me on the monitor of those who signed up for both bills. Please, Mironenko. Prepare the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u84	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, first of all, I call your attention to what the bill provides, despite our calming down, poses some threat to many people who do not possess enough Ukrainian language. Provide for the selection of staff, not in personal terms, but in language. Moreover, there is a danger that there will be conditionality, try to determine this standard of knowledge, and naturally there will be conflicts. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, Stepan Cloud's draft was introduced only in April of this year. In keeping with the demands of my constituents, I have introduced a draft law for two more years to ensure the Russian language, I stress, not the official language, but the possibilities for its development, the provision of blood-related, mixed with the Ukrainians of the Russian people who have lived for hundreds of years in this territory, to develop their culture. However, Tanjuk, Chairman of the Sectoral Committee, a member of the Our Ukraine bloc, the bloc of candidates for the Presidents of Ukraine, in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, did not allow the consideration of the bill in the Committee and at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have addressed the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, but so far the bill has not been examined, nor has another draft law on the same issue been considered. This is not democratic, it is a violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. The distinguished President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I know that you will receive this information. On behalf of the electorates of my district and the conviction of the majority of the people of Ukraine, I demand that the data of my bills be reviewed, number 2457 and number 6228. The laws currently under consideration are, firstly, contrary to article 38 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which declares equal access to public service for all citizens of our State for all. The elected ones are mentioned, however, that the attitude of the chosen ones is not that of the public servants. The obligation to speak only in the State language provided for in the Cloud Bill is not only unconstitutional but contrary to common sense. Suppose a person who does not know or know enough Ukrainian language came to the institution, the adoption of this rule would put the situation in a deadlock. I understand that the authors were motivated by good intentions, but I would like to speak to them in kind and say that any, you will agree, any good idea can be brought to absurdity and may lead to the full opposite. And in this case, the struggle for Ukrainian language to develop does not lead to development, you see, of Ukrainian language. Books in Ukrainian have become less published and more so than before, but contradictions are emerging. And that benefits the oligarchs, who you would also like to curse.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u85	Yes, thank you. You were addressing the Head. I'll allow myself to answer. You know that neither the Head nor the other leadership of the Supreme Council is considering the bill. Bills are discussed in the profile committees. And that's why I'm going to the profile committees to look at it. But with your bill, it's more difficult than that, because there's interference with the Constitution. But I'm going to the profile committees to look at these bills. Let's get this over with. Please, School, follow him, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u86	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that really the bill that is proposed to us for consideration has one common and clear purpose for everyone here. We have the Constitution of Ukraine. We tried to correct it several times. And finally, in a batch vote, I never liked the word "package" at all, but well, in a batch vote they did, they amended it. I do not remember that these amendments contain a standard for changing the status of the national language. It's just that it doesn't go in Ukrainian or any language would be recognized by the state as recognized in the Constitution? This is the norm of the Constitution. And it has, this rule, to be kept in all state institutions. Because language is a respect for the state you live in. I am convinced that everyone who read this bill understood: No force, no one will force anyone to speak the language you need to speak. It's about the language that you have to speak, because there are questions that can be easily solved without knowing the English language, without knowing the national language, without knowing the English language in the United States, without knowing French in France, you can, but there are a number of questions that you can't solve without knowing the language. And here, in order to have respect for both the Constitution and the country and the state in which you live, of course, there must be a constitutional norm and a requirement for knowledge of every official, knowledge of every visitor of the national language. This respect, believe me, primarily for those symbols that unite and unite us all, are symbols that enable us to respect ourselves in the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian State. Of course, we can talk a lot about what it might do to make a difference or to put it somewhere, but it's stupid, it's just what this bill doesn't have. Who in this room are opposed to having an official speak and speak the national language? Nobody. No one prevents him from learning 20 more languages, and that is perfectly normal. Who he hangs out with -- friends, family, colleagues -- that's his problem, that's what you want. But when you are in a public position, you are obliged to speak the national language. It was said that the visitor who had come there should speak. The visitor can speak any language, the main one, so that the person who accepts it can speak the national language. This is the main concept of this bill. And you don't need to see what's not in that bill that's clearly on the foundations of the Constitution. And let's not bring up all these notions of discord and discord. There is respect, and this respect must be mutual. You have to demonstrate it in order to be respected. Respect for the State’s language calls for reverential respect for those who respect the State. It's just me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u87	Please, Karmazin, prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u88	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, we now have two bills united, although you do not increase our regulations, Adam Ivanovich, but you should be parallel to each other when you unite in this way. So, I'd like to deny to some who have spoken that there is a violation of equality of law. What is "the violation of equality of law"? Public speaking is a component of the training of a public official, a tax officer, or a customs officer, or a prosecutor, or a court, or a lawyer, an ingredient. It's also part of an educational training program that's set out in all the requirements: both to the President, and to the National MP. And your guilt, the prejudices that this rostrum is not speaking as it is written in the law, Adam Ivanovich. Please ensure that article 10 of the Constitution and the law is implemented. I'm looking at Refat Abdurahmanovich, and I'm looking at Refat Abdurahmanovich right now. In Crimea, three national languages are Ukrainian, Russian and Crimean Tatar. He's fluent in Crimean Tatar. If he comes out now and says it on the stand? Why, no matter how we speak at home, no matter how we say it, is important to speak documents. And there's an understanding of documents. And these are the laws that are the documents, these are the working papers. This is exactly what these laws are about. Of course, I have a claim to draft legislation because it is only changing that neither the State Tax Service nor the Security Service, executive or state-mind service, etc., where officials are obliged to know the state language, so as to understand the document that has now come to the Ministry of Defence, the President's Administration, the release of the General of the Army of Vitali Radecki from the ranks of the Armed Forces and is interpreted, for example, by me as a political debate over the General who heads the National Committee to protect the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the integrity of its borders at the National Rescue Committee of Ukraine. So, honourable national MPs, I would not want us to have any domestic problems. It is solely about how Russia, where a quarter of Ukrainians live, responds to someone speaking from the rostrum there in Ukrainian. They do not speak in the rostrum. Why? It's not a setup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, calm down. There was a heavy charge from Yuri Anatoliyevich to the headship address that we are violating the Constitution, and especially for Yuri Anatoliyovich, I will read the third sentence of article 10 of the Constitution. "Ukraine guarantees free development of use and protection of Russian, other languages of Ukrainian national minorities." You've always been a fair lawyer, and today something's wrong. Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u90	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen of oranges, take the Constitution into your hands, open it on the appropriate page, where article 24 is for you and for the radio audience I quote. "Citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. There can be no privileges or limitations based on the signs of race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin, property status, place of residence, language or other characteristics." Be healthy! The other one. To this day, Ukraine is divided by your best efforts. One half voted for an orange candidate, she speaks Ukrainian, but she is rather a Galician woman. It does not practice Orthodoxy or unity. It's you. The second half of blue and white speaks Ukrainian with Russian influence, sorghum, as they say, is a canonic Orthodox. Let us put a dot on this and say: Let each part of Ukraine speak its own language, which it considers to be appropriate, as well as the faith that it considers appropriate. And that's what I have to tell you. Well, let's take a look at the president who's about to give up his authority. Does he speak English? I can tell. He's trying, but he doesn't. It is very difficult for him to communicate, to express his point of view. And I can see that when he's speaking in international forums where SND or EP representatives are meeting, you'll forgive me, I can see him moving into Russian with pleasure. And our first Vice-Prime Minister, and now the acting Azarov Mikola Janović. Do we not put him in a humiliating position when he comes out to this highest rostrum in our country, when the oranges shout, let's do it in national language. What can he do here in the national language from this rostrum? Let him speak Russian, which he knows, and we will all understand it. So I want to tell you finally and finally. Let's not make it out of this politics, but let's say that the position of the Communist Party of Ukraine in this regard over the last decade is unalterable. In Ukraine, changes should be made to the Constitution and Russian should be defined in a second national language, or even in an official language.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u91	Yuri Petrovich, I think the officials you mentioned today will follow your example and speak Ukrainian. Names were mentioned. Please, the Replica, the Cloud. Then Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u92	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! I'm not going to convince those people who are not conscientiously trying to distort the essence and content of the 10th article of the Constitution. This is not for them, but for Ukrainian citizens, I would like to quote the decision of the Constitutional Court on December 14, 99. This is how the Constitutional Court interprets, not you, Mr. Mironenko, the 10th article of the Constitution, and I quote: Ukrainian language, how national language is a mandatory means of communication throughout Ukraine, in the exercise of powers of government and local self-government. It's not to speculate, it's not about communication between us, it's about communication on the street between citizens, it's about government institutions. And it is the responsibility of government officials, and so it is in all countries of the world. I don't understand how much you hate this people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u93	You named him first, you didn't have to, because now we're going to call each other infinite. Once a line, Chubarov, please. Chubarov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction. As I am required by a government official to raise his level, including language, we should be here to greet each other sincerely, more so as we can ensure that all the public-language officials know the language, we should be able to make sure that in places where national communities are compact, we would also be able to speak the languages of these communities. So to the Crimea MP, I would advise that if he wanted to work in the future in the authorities of the state to learn both Ukrainian and Russian and Crimean Tatar too. I don't think there's any politics here about what we're discussing. If someone blames someone for politics, then he puts the meaning in it so he doesn't want to learn any language. including the national one, he wants to speak and use only his own language, and that is the level he has set for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. It's there. Yuri Anatolyovich, no one called you. What line? You called me first, and I gave you the answer, that's all. Please contact the chairman, referring to me. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I'm voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 5443. [[on the use of national language]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:42:35.]] For-141 Not accepted. Bill rejected. The draft law on introduction shall be put to the vote. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 76; "The Regions of Ukraine", Communists - 0; Social Democrats - 8; National Agrarian Party - 4, Socialists - 6; "Only Ukraine" - 7; Timoshenko - 18; "Soyuz" - 0; "Centre" - 6; "Democratic Initiatives", "Democratic Ukraine" - 0; NDP, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs - 5; non-fractional - 11. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of State Language, Registration No. 5681. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:43:41]] For 158. The bill was rejected. There's a bill amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act, registration number 4482. [[for extra parental leave]] Reported by national deputy Billowal Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u96	Highly respected Adam Ivanovich, a prominent colleague. This bill that we are introducing is designed to create favourable and safe conditions for children under the age of 18 to enter higher education institutions that are located elsewhere. He predicts that children who are under the age of 18 are admitted to higher educational institutions in another area at their request to be given annual leave or part of the leave at least as much as 12 working days to accompany the child. The very purpose of this law is that those under the age of 18 are welcome to accompany their parents when entering educational institutions. Because in some cases it is for the safety of the child and for finding them elsewhere. This bill does not require additional budget allocations. And I'd like you to support this law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u97	I just don't understand, if we're giving you a vacation, it's free. And, of course, thank you, sit down, please. From the Suhiy Yaroslav Mikhailovich Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u98	The Committee on Social Policy and Labour considered the bill submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Volk draft of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Vacations in Ukraine. We believe that the introduction of this bill will allow us to create comfortable and safe conditions for children under the age of 18 to enter schools elsewhere. Our opinion is shared by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. After considering the draft law, we recommend that the session hall adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we not going to discuss this? Then please let's vote on a good bill. Please, from Yavorowski's place, behind him is Karmazin. Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u100	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, it is indeed a very humane law. It's absolutely necessary. I have no doubt about it, and I urge you to vote for it, and I just want to remind you once again that Ukrainians in the political sense of the word, that is, regardless of their ethnic origin, language, religion, such Ukrainians, the real patriotics in Ukraine, are very many and we cannot overcome them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u101	Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u102	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". The honourable people's deputies, of course, the bill, which is now proposed by the People's Deputies of Volk and Billowol, deserves support, and I didn't see any reason why I didn't see a good, thorough comparison table, I didn't see any reason why they couldn't take it right away in two readings. It has not yet been noted that paragraph 17 introduces such a change, that when two or more children of the relevant age are present, the parental leave is given once for each child. So one child needs to be accompanied by another child, too. So that it doesn't be interpreted as just one child. And in my opinion, this bill, when parents can do it at their own expense, we're going to do just one thing -- we're going to allow those employers who are giving jobs, the legal basis for letting these people go for everything. That's what this bill is for. We say they have the right to take. They'll take it or not, that's another question. So I propose that this law be passed in general, of course. And, Adam Ivanovich, you didn't let me tell you yesterday. I'm going to take this opportunity to say, "No, I, George Carmazin, head of the Party of Fatherland Defenders, am the organizer of Pore." So the people, our young people organized the Pore, who won't let Kuchma into his hole, do you understand? And he won't let go until they stop breaking the Constitution. And secondly, you did it to me again, said "Juri Anatolyovich," even though you knew it was me. There is no other Yuri Anatolyovich. In the State institutions of the Constitutional Court's decision of 14 December 1999, I would ask the entire Presidency to study and understand that if we pay the deputy the salary of the minister, please let this deputy work on himself as the same Tihipko, the same Yanukovich, the same Kuchma. But they do speak the national language in the performance of their duties. In interviewing, all the rest, in talks, please let them speak in the language that our Constitution allows. That's all I'm for. I'm more, I'm better in Russian because I've learned Russian all my life. And I might be more comfortable using Russian right now. But, Adam Ivanovich, I comply with the requirements of the Constitution, and this will be required of you from tomorrow. Every single one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u103	Yuri Anatolyevich, your right to demand, you can do that. Solomonine, after Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u104	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I have a birthday to announce. She was first declared in a famous film, and you'll remember, "Let's live our Constitutional Court, the most just court in the world! Long live our Supreme Court, the most just judgment in the world!" And I hope that when the national authorities are restored, these courts will perform their duties not for their own sakes in connection with the pressure of money bullets and oligarchs, but they will be required by the people. That's part one. And the second part. I would like to say that the prescribed law is necessary, and our faction supports it. But it would be much better if we decided to add some money to it, not to the parents who are accompanying it, but to the children who need to come from a deaf village to a higher education facility, to find a place to stay there and prepare for the exams to be passed, and to do everything they can to make sure that they don't feel out of place in the conditions of that capitalist system that was set up today as they progress to higher education institutions. And that's why I want to end by saying that the law is good, but it's populist, and it only partially solves the issues and the tasks that children and parents face, especially the parents who are underprivileged and the children who are underprivileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u105	Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u106	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The distinguished people's deputies, the respected compatriots, the Communist faction, of course, support the bill, for every true patriot cannot but support it. But let's just take a look. Before us, a colleague spoke to me about patriotism. But let's take a look at the term patriot. The patriot is not only the one who screams loudly about patriotism and shouts that he protects Ukrainian language and makes it worse and worse in Ukrainian language, but the one who does much to ensure that the economy of the country develops, the standard of living for the people to have a better life for the people. And that's the power that often screams about patriotism, not really. But let's pay attention again. Twelve days is not a bad thing, but note where they will take their children during these 12 days. They have more and more recently taken their children to paid schools, as education has become more and more paid. And thank God that these 12 are given, these 12 days will be given. But when a person goes there, he'll think about who led us to such a life, what we have to pay for now, and what we have to pay for is not just the capitalists, the oligarchs, the rightists, the supporters of capitalism and their children, the close-up people have money, and the people don't have money. As a result, he goes to a higher education institution with money, and smart, talented children do not pass. Why are so - called patriots not paying attention to these 12 days, that in the same Germany as they seem to be setting an example, free of charge higher education. There are separate educational establishments where paid, but this is an exception, mostly free of charge, and the scholarship is decent. And this good example Germany took from the Soviet Union, from our beautiful State, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, where not only were there parental leave and so on, there was real concern for education. Why did this happen? Because there is a need to develop education for the development of science, the economy, in order to raise the standard of living of the people. And now? I would still like to draw attention to the fact that everything is now being paid, health care is being paid, because it is being profited. education is paid because it develops why? Because it's capitalism. Because capitalism is a market, a market in everything, including in all spheres and in culture, science, education. The result is the destruction of the economy, the destruction of the State and the destruction of the people themselves, because the people have no opportunity to develop a culture, no opportunity to exist as a people. What patriotism are you talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u107	Yes, please, 1 minute from the Cabinet of Ministers, and we'll be clear. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies! The government supports this bill, but there is an editorial amendment. The Vacation Act gives all vacations on calendar days. And here the standard is offered for working days. So there is such a proposal to preserve the single concept of the holiday law, to determine on calendar days.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's agree with this editorial, so I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act. [[for extra parental leave]] Registration number 4482. Please vote. [[17:56:33]] For 264 The law is passed. There is no denying that in general, as a law? No, there is a denial. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's it, that's it. Dear colleagues! I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues! Don't rape the chairman. Anatoly Frost, please. There's a denial of a national MP, if there's one thing. Anatoly Frost, I'm making a note. If there is a denial of at least one MP, we do not have the right to impose a law on adoption as a whole as a law. There is a draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sport concerning the Status of the National Sports Federation. [[bill registration number 5031]] Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, please, quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u109	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The bill I submitted is aimed at improving the procedures for granting national status to sports federations. The project proposes to set a standard according to which, if there are two or more sports federations in the country that develop the sport and claim to be a national federation, the central executive body of physical culture and sport should develop a position to approve the respective national federation on competitive grounds. You understand that this is a competitive rule. Where there is competition, we know that it is an engine of progress. That is, it will force the respective federations to keep the mark above, and thus we will receive a qualitative increase in the impact of this sport. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u110	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. It's from the Samuels Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! The committee unanimously decided to support the bill. I want to say that before its development, the best people of our country sport were Olympic champions, members of the International Olympic Committee, the National Olympic Committee. And I think that's a better confirmation because we need to bring the order in this case and I'd like to ask you to vote on the bill. But only on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u112	Yes. Dear colleagues, it's all clear. Yes. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u113	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear people's deputies, we are all proud of our state and our Chevchenko, and our Klitschko, who was not afraid to raise an orange flag and say that he supports democracy in the country. I realize that someone doesn't like it, but Cliché did it, so he doesn't like the Americans, the English he beat, the others don't like it. But this law that we're talking about wants to settle the absolutely right thing, the competition that happens between national federations, because today at least 5 can be created by the national name. And it's the right proposal to have competitive principles and it's the central executive body that has to develop this position and then the competition between them, the competition, and then Ukraine will look better in the international arena. I don't understand why, we're offered just to take the basis, and just in the first reading, I don't see why this Law can't be adopted in two readings right now. In my opinion, it is well - designed and can be accepted. And, in principle, there's a little bit of attention in the General Science Department. They could even be agreed by voice because they were talking about a federation, but an association. I express my opinion. Adam Ivanovich, I would just like to save time for the adoption of this law, re-write it into the agenda, reproduce it over and over again. We have already made changes to this law. So I'd like to, or we'd be more prepared to, or we'd accept it on two readings, because the main purpose of the bill is going to be achieved even in the form in which it's now being submitted. There can be a lot of differences in views, and it can be improved even more. But the main purpose of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport, in large account, for the development of sport, for the celebration of Ukraine in the international arena is exactly what Clicko did by glorifying our Ukraine, this will serve just that. So I'd like to ask you, when we take in the first, to put the acceptance in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u114	Thank you. In carrying out the decision of the Constitutional Court that you reminded me of, we are proud, not of Klitschko, but of Klick's Ukrainian language. Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u115	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, I will support this bill as well as the Communist faction, but when I consider this bill, a very large bill, I think that many questions may arise. For the second reading needs to be thought through and the answers to the following. Why our mass sport is dying, and what forms are needed, forms of organization to ensure that mass sport in Ukraine does not die. In a socialist way, because you remember there was a mass sport that was aimed at creating a healthy and moral and physically healthy people. Now, alas, the people are destabilizing. And when we say someone's going abroad, it's sold. He sells himself there, then sells his vote in support of a candidate, gets money from this athlete. Who's on the football team? They're foreign people, mostly people bought somewhere. Where are our national talents on our football field? Where are our talents at our stadiums? Oh, money is not allocated to sports. Why? Because they say let's give it self-purchasing, because we don't have the resources, there's no funds in the State budget. But self-purchasing won't do anything. Even in the Western world, the State is supported by sport, to a large extent by the State, and sometimes by enterprises. Whether it's public, whether it's collective, whether it's private. There are also various associations. And you have to think, of course, it's competitive or competitive. In this situation, it is likely, on a competitive basis. At the same time, however, the role of the State in the development of sport must be strengthened; otherwise, there will never be any programmes for the recovery of the nation, the establishment of a healthy moral and physical people. This programme has been implemented. We must draw that conclusion. What does it take to do that? In addition to general interpretations, concrete work is needed to raise the economy in order to have money in Gosbudget. What does it take? To stop the privatization we're talking about, Communists. And I call on the people to support us, including for the development of sport, mass sport. Regrettably, I saw in pain the vote in those elections for the oligarchs. I have helped many people twice elected in the district. And people went and voted not for that, not for Communist Simonenko, but for the representative of the oligarchs. It hurt me, I saw the media lying to the people. But I'm talking to the people: after the elections, you'll see that, even so, the pro-American candidate, that prices are going to go down, that privatization is going to be done, that it's going to be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m1.u116	Yes, shall we put it to a vote? We vote on the adoption of a draft law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sport. [[on the status of the National Sports Federation]] Registration number 5031. Please vote. [[18:06:33]] For 207 The factions. “Our Ukraine” - 28, “Ukraine” - 28, “Communist faction - 53, SDPU - 17, National Agrarian Party - 9, SPU - 19, “Ukrainian One” - 18, “Timoshenko Block - 6, “Soyuz” - 10, “Centre” - 0, “Deminicatives” - 0, “Urban” - 8, “NDP and PPTU - 5, “Affective” - 6. Mobilized? So, who's in charge of getting back to the question? Please vote. [[18:07:25]] For 235 I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. Registration number 5031. Please vote. [[18:07:52]] For 249 Thank you, copy. Dear colleagues, we have another sports law: a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the term "paraolympic". Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, please. Should we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the term "paraolympic", 5422. Please vote. [[18:08:42]] For 242 What's the committee's opinion? We can do it as a whole. No objections? I'm voting as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[18:09:07]] For 246 Adopted as a law. At this, my fellow Members, I thank you for your cooperation, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow we start work as usual at 10 a.m.
