ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:14]] Registered -438 The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of our colleagues, more of the better half of mankind, the Harmash Galina Fedorovna and the Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. Let us welcome them, wish them good health, and wish them every success. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 The Rules, on Friday we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages, and proposals made by the people’s deputies. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to sign up for applications, messages and requests, while I announce the parliamentary requests that have come. More than 150 requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies. May I have your attention, please? Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on unlocking the activities of the State Commission from securities and stock markets. [[PASTOR, MOROZ, Gladys, MATTHEW, PENZENIK, KURAS]] I am voting in favour of this request. [[10:03:58]] For 247 Request supported. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:04:23]] For 327 Request supported. JURIA KARMAZINA to the President of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to address the catastrophic situation that occurred in Ukraine’s audiovisual space in connection with the artificial blocking of access to television and radio broadcasting of domestic art, estrada, and opera. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:59]] For 214 Request supported. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:22]] For-164 The request is not supported for referral to the President. The decision is not positive. Andrija DERKAČA to the President of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of Ukrainian legislation in force in the Sumskia area of local self - government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:55]] For 178. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:20]] For 196 The decision is not taken. THE president of Ukraine, Paul BEBREWS, on the settlement of the financial provision of military personnel, members of the primary and military staff of the Internal Affairs Office, and some others. I'll bet you a vote on the request. It's a ribbish. [[10:06:49]] For 242 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:10]] For 299 Decision taken. To the President of Ukraine for information on the dual citizenship of the Ukrainian National Deputy Eugene Red. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:38]] For 245 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:01]] For 247 Decision taken. Sergey TEROJOCHINA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the rightfulness of refusal to register the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the Presence or absence of the Fascist Motivation of SDRU(s)” introduced by the national deputies Teryokhin, Bondarenk, School, Stecki, Kosiv. Mary MARKUS to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the appeal of Orthodox Christians of Tachian and Rakhiv regions of the Zakarpat region on the alternative registration of tax payers and non-execution by the State Administration of the Law of Ukraine “To amend the Law of Ukraine on the State Register of Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments”. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory provision of national deputies to Ukraine by the government liaison ATS-100. MICHAYLA PAPLAVSKI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the judges of the Ulyanov District Court of Kirovograd. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to a request from March 25, 2004, for a violation by the Rector of the Donetsk National University of Student Trade Unions. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the distribution of road taxes between Kiev and the Kyiv region. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the damage caused by floods and floods in 1998 to residents of the Tachiv region of Zakarpat. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the adoption of measures to address the catastrophic situation in the audiovisual space of Ukraine in connection with the artificial blocking of access to television and radio broadcasting of domestic art, estrada and operas. Andrija SKILLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal order of the Minister of Transport of Ukraine concerning the restructuring of the University of Kiev of Economics and Transport Technology. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the repair of the road on the “Shurden” crossing of the region of Czernovetsek. Hennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the requirements of article 58 “On the Government Budget for Ukraine for 2004” concerning the listing of objects for granting subsidies for measures to prejudice accidents and prevent technological disasters in the housing sector and the formal treatment of requests by national deputies. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of financing the local budgets of the Kyiv region. Mr. Stanislawa NICOLAENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for lack of response by the Government in connection with the distribution of locusts in the Herson region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE prime minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of the underwater pipelines of Denishi-Teterovka and to the villages of Miroljubka and Breezovka of the Žitomir region. MICHELLA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the restoration of the train movement between the Hutir-Michajlovsky railway stations, the Witchcraft of the Suma Region. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of citizens in the territory of the Hornostiv region of the Hersson region on the provision of drinking water in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. Alexander FELDMAN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures aimed at implementing effective legislation in the area of pension insurance for non-medical workers, prevention centres and diagnostic laboratories that risk their health to prevent the spread of HIV infection in Ukraine. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in the price of fuel leave before harvesting agricultural crops. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No.276 “On the implementation of article 49 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004”. MICHELLE CATHERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of targeted State assistance to children affected by food poisoning through dairy products in the Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odessa areas. Anatolia PALIGARY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen with the payment of the payout in the tram and trolleybus administration of Makiyivka. Mr. Vladimir FYALKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor for the distribution of housing for military officials of the city of Odessa. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that resulted in the payment of the debt on the mine of Pochenkova, the town of Makiyivka Donetsk Region. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to regulate the mechanism for implementing the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Persons – Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments. Mikhail Kosiv to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the content of the statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the division of war veterans into “its” and “foreign” and the need for this immediate submission by the Government of a bill on the recognition of the Ukrainian rebel army as a belligerent in World War II and the extension to all soldiers of the status of participants in hostilities. Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recalculation of pensions by the former warehouse of the Terebovljen plant of olive ornaments. John STANDS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the irresponsible attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine towards the holding of a fortification for the preservation of Tuzla Island. Vasil TUSHKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the State funding of the Youth Guard Children's Centre and its transfer to the Ministry of Education and Science under the National Spiritual Health Centre. MICHELLE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Vinnick district government, for the purpose of providing unreliable information on the living conditions of the citizen of Panasenko and the formal treatment of the matter. John STANDS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the irresponsible treatment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the strengthening of the preservation of Tuzla Island. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the negligence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with regard to violations of the rights of Ukrainians who are permanently residing in the territory of the Russian Federation. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's Comprehensive Program of Approval of Ukraine as a Transit State in 2002-2010. Ivan DRACH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the plans envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision “On the Approval of the School Bus Program” and the Order of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of buses to remote Ukrainian schools. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring and failing to comply with President of Ukraine's decrees regarding the reform of the agro-industrial complex of the Lugansk Region of Novopskovsky, the abuse of the office of officials of the reformed collective agricultural enterprise by the head of the Novopskovsky Regional Government Administration of Cherniavsky. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is under the leadership of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Ukraine to provide targeted financial assistance to the District Government for the removal of residents of an accident house in the city of Korstosev. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the transfer of a student of the Basic Medical College of the Poor Family to the budgetary form of education. [[ACHELLE, ATHROSHEN, AND OTHERS. Total 6 deputies]] Sergia DOROGUNCOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of housing for the head of the Council Department for the study of the productive forces of Ukraine at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the protection of the constitutional rights of persons with disabilities. IN THE village of Vasilyvka, in the district of Balgrad, of Odessa, in connection with the death of people in a car accident on May 16, 2004, Igor ODES to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the work on the in-kind allocation of property rations for the inhabitants of the village of Lebden in the region of Czernigów, in order to create a separate agricultural enterprise. Jaroslav KENJOR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the outbreak of religious enmity in Ukraine by Patriarch of Moscow, Alexei II. Vasil TUSCHKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures to assist the utility “Elanec Water Management” and to prevent an environmental disaster in the region of Yelanec. Mr. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of the Volin region as a result of a decision of the Ministry of Transport regarding the railway connection of Lucca with Kiev and other regions of Ukraine. Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of rations to the inhabitants of the three villages of the Podvolocchia region of Ternopil. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the solution of the issue of the release of budgetary military units, institutions and organizations from the payment of taxes from owners of transport assets. Anatolysa KZŁOVSKI to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the award of a targeted subsidy to compensate for the indemnity of individual categories of citizens. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of work on the shores of the Kakhov watershed near the village of Mala Lepeticha in the Herson region. Yurya BOJKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, for the proper preparation for the 300th anniversary of the birth of the founder of the Ukrainian-Georgian friendship, David Guramishvili, who lived, created and died in the city of Mirgorod in Poland. Mr Vladimir Anishtuka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitr Tobacco, for the provision of financial assistance to the veteran councils of the Odessa region. Groups of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, concerning the creation of the Terebovian Historical and Cultural Reserve. [[Kostenko, Tarasjuk, Assadchev]] Vladimir LECHENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, for the various costs of the forms of evidence of the completion of the educational establishment with the provision of the production profession “Leader of means of transport”. Mr Eugene HIRNIKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the acceleration of the granting of a licence for the exploitation of the mineral treatment water “Prereginska” in the region of Rožnetów. Julius TIMOSHENKO to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine We will consider that the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andrija Kljeva, the Attorney General of Ukraine, is involved in the fraudulent actions of Ignatov in the Mashkov region of Poltava. [[It says here Vitalia Hajduk, possibly Andrew Clovis. We don't have Hajduk anymore.]] Alexander MASSENKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko to assist residents of the village of Oussuka in the region of Poltava with regard to land and property management. Jury PAVLENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the violation of a criminal case and on the prosecution of officials and employees of the special unit of the police “Berkut” of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zakarpatsk region, who committed crimes provided for in articles 112, 346 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which establish criminal responsibility for violating the life of a public and public official. Anatolia MATVIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a review of the procedural decisions of the law enforcement authorities of the Vinick district regarding the petitions of a citizen of Kiriluk. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine to investigate the situation by preventing mass action in the city of Herson. [[THE blacksmith, the blacksmith, the tank, and others. Total 7 deputies]] Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the problems of reforming society with limited responsibility for “Holding-South” in the Berislav region of the Hersonian region and violating the rights of its employees. JOURIA PAULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a formal response to the MP’s appeal regarding the prejudice of the officials of the Donetsk district attorney’s office in the handling of matters relating to the liquidation of the Kostinov factory. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for reasons of exceeding the official powers of the police and the Office of the City of Eupatoria of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea during the detention and detention of the head of the public organization “Scientific Society of Students, Aspirants, Lawyers” by Konstantin Sizareva. John MIHOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the insufficient investigation into the causes of the death of Professor Vladimir Slivka, Rector of Uzhgorod National University. Andrija DERKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation in the Sumskie area of the Ukrainian legislation in force on local self - government. Mr Mikoli PAVLUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the violation of competition legislation under the Order of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine “Renewing the activities of the state-owned enterprise Transplex”. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for the discovery of a criminal case involving the death of the Rector of the Uzhgorod National University of Mr. Slivka. [[RADIO, BALOGA, YVANCHO]] Andrija ŠKILA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the return of Ivan Filipczak to the Sambir National Pedagogical College of Education at the “Ukraine” Stock Exchange. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the application of measures to prevent the termination of the function of the Ukrainian School of Public Education “Herson College” of Eugene Malanjuk. Alexander FELDMAN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of measures aimed at stabilising the situation around national issues. Vladimir NOVAK to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper investigation by the law enforcement authorities of the city of Hmělních on the beating of the mother of two minor children. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the misconduct of the employees of Libid-servicing and the officials of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the region of Kyrovograd “Titan” regarding the Open Shareholder Society “Dobrobelicka Rajagrotechnika”. Alexia BABURINA and Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the constitutional rights of citizens by representatives of the law enforcement agencies of Kiev. Victor BORSCHEVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal actions of officials of the Executive Service of the Kirov District Administration of Justice of the City of Dnipropetrovska in the execution of a court decision on the Dnipropetrov collective enterprise “Dniprohim”. Stepan BULBI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of effective legislation by officials of the closed stockholders association of the Poltava Oil and Extraction Plant Sonjašnik and for the implementation of measures to restore legality. Istwana HYDOSH to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of the Hungarian national minority in the city of Husty Zacarpathia. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against individual directors of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for providing false information to the Ukrainian National Deputy on the presence in the company’s warehouses of limited liability “New Gural” in the village of Stanishovka of the Žitomir Region of Liquoric Products, which is why the private company “SMUNCK” was illegally issued excise stamps that were used for the release of uncalculated products. TO THE Attorney General of Ukraine, Vladimir NICHIPREH was involved in the criminalization of the perpetrators of the smuggling of holographic equipment and the machination with it. To the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vladimir YAWORIY, on the offence of assault on the life of the director of the administration of the National Association of Writers of Ukraine and his family, which resulted from criminal activity by the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Justice on the verification of parliamentary requests for violations of legislation aimed at the destruction of a literary organization. Mr Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior Ukraine’s investigation into the death of Vasil Morozov in Lutsk Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs for the examination of the decisions of the judges and the head of the local court of the Javrov region of the Lviv region of Güzal, is aware of the unfair decisions on the registration of unscrupulous vehicles, which have caused the state of damage to some 14 million grevens, inappropriately responding to facts from officials of the Yavorów Department of State Auto-Inspection Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region, the service negligence in verifying the facts of the employees of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Lviv region. Mr. Vladimir NICHIPREKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of CEVK for information on the dual citizenship of the Ukrainian National Deputy Eugene Red. Gregory OMELZENSKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the use of response measures to enforce the court’s decision on the payment of salaries to the participant of the liquidation of the impact accident on ČAES Lehmanski and on the responsibility of officials who do not carry out the court’s decision. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General for bringing a case before a court for the review of a court decision under the new circumstances for the conviction of the local court of the Ličakow district of Lviv on a criminal charge of the former senior state car inspector of the department of the State Auto Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region of Koguta for the commission of the crime provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Anatolia Seminoga and Vasil ZUSHKA to the Attorney General on the need for a review of the work of the Prosecutor’s Office in the Odessa region. Mr. Mikoli Karnauha to the Attorney General on the legality of the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine No. 100 of March 26, 2004. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General on the participation of the Attorney General's Office in court cases involving the State Shareholder Holding Company Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights of a citizen to use a private land. Gregory OMELCHEN — the Attorney General’s Office for the examination of the statement made by Capinus regarding violations of his constitutional rights, the failure of local law enforcement authorities to take appropriate action to address these violations and to hold the guilty officials accountable. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal privatization of the property of Lviv Technics by the Radio Electronics Society “Concern Electronics”. Vasil ZUSHKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the owners of State acts on the land of the village of Vasilyvka Biliyivka District of Odessa. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of halting the investigation and delaying the detection of the crime by the authorities of the Zastavininsky District Department of Internal Affairs in the Chernigiv region. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the delay in addressing the property and property owners of the agricultural society with limited responsibility “Agro-Colos” by the procurator of the Luhansk Region of Novospas. Sergia BICHKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non-payment of payments to the open stockholders' company “Lower-day pipeline factory Carl Libknecht” dividends to shareholders. HORRY OF THE U.S. Attorney - General of Ukraine on the situation of violating the legitimate interests of the Odessa city community. Vladimir SKLARA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for violations of the Code of Criminal Procedure by the investigating authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in the conduct of research and judicial investigation into criminal proceedings concerning road traffic accidents related to the transportation of the open shareholders of Symstrotransvis, as well as the lack of adequate prosecutorial supervision over the enforcement of laws by the internal affairs authorities. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka and Mr. Jurija ARTEMENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the beating of the editor-in-chief of the newspaper “Time” Petra Kobevik in the city of Chernovic. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper investigation of a criminal case involving the disappearance of a young woman named Violeta Cnerovil, resident of the village of Cairo, in the region of Hersonian. YEUGENA JOLJAKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the signs of corruption in the actions of the director of the tax inspection of the city of Irpin of the Kyiv region of Daenenko and the inaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief of State Service of Ukraine, and the First Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Sergio Medvedchuk. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the unsatisfying status of securing the salaries of employees of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the unsatisfactory actions of the Internal Affairs Department and the Prosecutor’s Office of the Choral Region of Poltavian Region regarding the detection of a crime involving the theft of citizens’ property. Leonida Vernigori to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of constitutional rights for residents of the villages of the Kharkiv district of the Gulf of Kharkiv. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the violation of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” by the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine Krivenkom. Bogdan Gubski to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the violation of the power grids of the Zolitani region of the Cherkas region of citizens’ rights and legitimate interests. Ms. Alexander ČERNOVLENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the use of damage compensation measures by the Ukrainian School of Public Education “Herson College”. MICHAYLA VOLINCJA to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens by the state executive of the Department of State Executive Services of the District Department of Justice of Kiev. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE U.S. Agrarian Policy Minister on the allocation of budgetary resources to the private enterprise Orion, the village of Kodnja Žitomirska District, for the work of the Programme for Substantial Land Improvement. JOURIA ARTEMENKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of financial assistance for the treatment of children adopted by a citizen named Stuklin. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the return from the prison of Cape Verde of Ukrainian sailors to the “Zubar Sexto”. Vladimir SKOMAROVSKI to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the facts of the “violent exile” of medical personnel of Winnitzkin to the grips of the district centers of the predominant parties. Vladimir DEMOCHINE to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the rehabilitation of the population, who suffered damage as a result of the fire and the explosion of ammunition in the Zaporozhye region. Mr Vladimir NOVAK to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Investigative Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the Hmelna Region of the White in investigating the criminal case of illegal possession of the property of the Iowa enterprise. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Undersatisfying State of the Preservation of Ammunition in Ukraine. MICHELLE RED to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on Fire Safety in Some of the Chernigiv District’s Population. Stepan BULBY to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for delaying the execution of the decision of the Lenin District Court of Poltava regarding compensation for moral damage to the city’s inhabitants. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the detention of Ukrainian citizens on the border of the Russian Federation. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure to comply with the decisions of the Land Court of Zaporozhye Region, an open-ended shareholders association called Dniproenergo. MICHELLA’S Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to take into account the amounts owed in the calculation of the pensions of teachers in the city of Chernigova and the region of Chernigiv. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the order and status of the provision of patients with disabilities by means of sanitary routes and medical aid. VYACHESLALA KYRILENKA to the Ministry of Health regarding the illegal activities of the administration and the protection of Zaporozhye State Medical University against youth organizations, the creation of illegal obstacles to the dissemination of printed information, the use of pneumatic weapons and physical force. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the State’s social policy regarding veterans who participated in the war of the Soviet Union with Japan. TO THE Minister of Defense, Paul Žebryev, concerning the abuse of the military forces of A0281 and A1494 regarding the order of service of military personnel. John STATION to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council, regarding the abuse of duty as junior military sergeants of AO284, namely the abuse of subordinate military personnel. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of public health care to poor student levels. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the execution of the decision of the Lord’s District Court of the Donetsk Region to collect the debt from the Zenoyar Rural Council of the Donetsk Region. John STANDS to the Minister of Ukraine in the family, children and young people’s affairs with regard to the Cabinet’s Ordinance “On the order of granting extended loans to young families and to single young citizens for the construction and acquisition of housing” in accordance with current legislation. [[reconstruction]] BORISA TO THE U.S. Secretary of Defense on the need to move the deadlines for the reform of the Lutsky garrison hospital. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on insufficient investigation into the removal of funds from citizens of Euro-Mercur-Kiyev for employment abroad. Jury PAVLENKA to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on violation of military command in the City of Sumi of the Ukrainian Law on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families. Bogdan Kostinjuk and Roman TWAČA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the execution of a court decision for the benefit of teaching staff in the region of Sørne district for years in arrears, medical assistance and compensation for violations of payment deadlines. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, President of the Academy of Agrarian Sciences of Ukraine, to prevent the introduction of Ukrainian varieties of winter wheat into the register of European Union varieties. [[ZULINSK, BONDAR, ALIEN]] TO THE Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the criminal case of French citizen Jean Panier on the facts of the theft of property and documents. Dmitry SVETAŠA and Leonidas VERNIGORA to the Kharkiv City Head to ensure that the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens are respected for environmental safety and rest that have been violated as a result of the adoption by the City Council of Harkows of decisions aimed at destroying the recreational zone in Kitlarska Yar. Mr. Alexander CERNOVOLENKA to the Head of the Herson City, Head of the Herson District State Administration, for the provision of organizational and financial assistance to the School of Public Education, the "Herson College" of the name Malanuk. John Flew to the Head of Government of the Open Shareholder Society “The Shrine” for delaying the resolution of the issue of improvement of living conditions in the town of Nižin. Jury CARMAZINA and Stepan HMARA to the Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the decision of the judge of the local court of the Yavorów district of the Lviv district of Gotzko and the head of the court of Gutzal, on the presumptively unfair decisions on the registration of unscrupulous vehicles, which caused the state a loss of about $14 million. YEUGENA REDOVENKA to the Head of the State Tax Administration in Kiev for the correction of shortcomings in the work of the State Tax Administration in Kiev and for the restoration of violated citizens’ rights and freedoms. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on violations of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the renewal of the city of Kyrovgrad. Mr. Vladimir MOVČANA to the head of the Poltava District State Administration for the interference of officials with the administration of exit in the Poltav region of the All-Ukrainian weekly “Information Bulletin”. Jury KARMAZIN to the Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the violation of disciplinary conduct in respect of the head of the local court of the Yavorów District of the Lviv district of Gusala and the initiation of the question of his dismissal from the post of judge and the dismissal of the head of the court for gross violations of civil and procedural law in the examination of court applications and non-compliance with the oath of the judge. Vassila ZUSHKA to the head of the Odessa City Council for the violation of the rights of the resident of Odessa to housing. TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration for Promoting the Management of the State Tax Administration to Officials of the State Tax Inspectorate of the city of Herson in the performance of their duties. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Auditorate for the Orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Nos. 509 and No. 510 concerning the allocation of subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects and the implementation of measures to prevent accidents and technological disasters in housing and other emergency municipal property objects which violate articles 24, 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of Government of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the Retirement of the Scientific Pension Boyko. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine on the results of the examination of disciplinary conduct in relation to the judge of the local court of the Croat district of Chernigiv district of Nikolayenka. ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on strengthening the discipline of banking institutions in the transfer of loans under the small business microcredit programme in Ukraine. Mr. Oleg GUMENUKA to the Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources for the Unregulated Privatization and Land Rental Procedure. YEUGENA JOLLY to the ELIMINATION Commission of the Stock Exchange Commercial Bank “Ukraine” for the transfer of the Housing Cooperative “Electron-2” to the first category of creditors. Group of National Deputies to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Coordinating Committee for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime at the President of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the verification of a traffic accident, which resulted in the destruction of the official car of the “Toyota Land Cruiser” brand of the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region of Sala, the concealment of this fact from the registration, the secret replacement of the car with the same brand stolen and the use of it as a service, a violation of the criminal case. [[CARMASINE, JAVOYSKI, POLITICAL]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to the parliamentary request for a critical situation that has arisen in the voline districtal medical anti-tuberculosis association. [[Heat, Kirilchuk, weak]] Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of social payments to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens, which was affected by the Chernobyl disaster and other laws. Oleg TGAGNIBOK to the Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev on the illegal persecution of political views and the activities of members of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom by the law enforcement authorities of the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Valery SAMOPLAVSK, Mikoli Sherschun to Prime Minister of Ukraine about the debt back to the Bank of Ukraine to legal persons, the province of Ravens, in connection with the deadline for the closure of the bank's liquidation process. Groups of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Tobacco for the systematic and one-sided reporting of important events in life in the UTN news releases on the UT-1 television channel, bordering on outright lies, as evidenced by the first and second June information on the results of the investigation of events in Mukachev and the 2003 government report on the implementation of the budget. [[JOURNEY, CARMAZIN, WEATHER, AND OTHERS]] All the questions, the honourable colleagues, the ones that came. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimpush Oresta Dmitrovic from the composition of the MP's headquarters and its membership in the Democratic Initiatives and Peoples' Government. Dear colleagues, let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions. We spent 45 minutes announcing the MP's requests that came in. I would then ask that we not take a break at 12 o’clock, but at least consider a few laws. Please state the name of the national MPs who are registered to make the statements, the messages. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Vasil Gabrieluk. The word “Andrey Shkel ” conveys it to Alexander the Turk. Please. 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent times, the Presidential Administration and the Presidential Family want to turn the Supreme Council into a criminal structure that deals only with lthitimemization of other crimes of power and gives indulgences to any illegal action. At first, Medvedczuk-Kuchmi's team played politics. They planted so-called political reform, they faked the Constitution, they raped Parliament. After they realized that it was not possible to save the team from a political point of view, they withdrew their masks and rushed to the national economy as a glutton of greed and loyalty to its remains. Today, they no longer seek to steal and destroy the last remaining thing in Ukraine and its people. You are called upon, Your Honor, to be associated with such a crime. Legally, economically, morally, from any perspective, privatizing the "Criminal" is an outright criminal offence. The huge combination that gives the state, the half - billion - dollar budget, wants to pass on to the President’s son - in - law. Is that a personal Kuchma inheritance? Or maybe the compensation for the invitation payments by Pinchuk, George Bush, Wesley Clarke and Depardier. Then it's really a generous compensation. But what is the purpose of the people and their property? Dear colleagues, the decision to privatize the Crevistals, given the weight of the combination in the national economy, its strategic nature and possible perspectives, it's masochism, anti-Ukrainian masochism, anti-government masochism. The transfer to private hands of such strategic enterprises is no less absurd than, say, the privatization of military and air forces or the Kiev-Pecher Lavre. I urge you not to make mistakes or support the anti-Ukrainian intentions of criminal-oligaric groups. Today, when there is less than half a year left for the presidential election, after which the current team will cease to exist forever, the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc demands that not only the privatization of Crevistals be stopped, but any seizure of property in the form of privatization, which is actually transformed into banal marauding. We demand a moratorium on privatization processes and a positive decision on the preservation of the status of the leading combination of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the majority of the deputies. You'd better be scared today, the more embarrassing it is tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u3	Yes, Basil Gavriluk, Deputy Group "Centre". Get ready for the girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! I would like, personally, to recommend to all the members of the “Centre” panel that they continue to work, given that today, in our view, politics and politics are slightly engrossed in the Supreme Council. I have already said in my statements that yesterday, the fourth, the soldiers across Ukraine were sitting at the radio station waiting for the adoption of the most important laws to protect them when they were released. Unfortunately, that did not happen again. It cannot be said that it is not important to privatize strategic sites, we cannot say that we do not have the tactics and activities of the Supreme Council today, but if you do the analysis, you will be able to see that today a large number of drafts have already accumulated and should be considered as a matter of priority. I would urge everyone to work constructively, to adopt legislation in such a way that our voters feel that the Supreme Council is working today, and there are important bills that I have already stopped at. These are laws on the reform of the Ukrainian armed forces, those are laws on the social protection of the military and a number of other major laws. Let us therefore support the Supreme Council in this regard, in a constructive manner, and work for the benefit of our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u5	Yes, the Omelian Male, the Communist faction. Get ready. Borszewski, please, will perform instead. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u6	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovska oblast. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich! I want to go back to the question of the privatization of "Criminals". Yesterday in the hall, and you, the distinguished listeners, the voters, saw as “most”, in fact, refused to consider the merits of the privatization issue of “Criminals”. For the first time in my country, it is not bankruptcy that is being privatized, but a highly profitable, profitable enterprise. By the way, it's not some beer on the Podola, and it's the biggest complex, it's 55,000 workers. And I'm surprised by one thing, including your position, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that we, the people's deputies, are legally in charge of public property, we have refused to discuss this issue, we have refused to discuss the need for this privatizer, whether it is necessary or not. In doing so, we have once again humiliated our Parliament. There's a lot of questions. Question number one, after the privatization of the metallurgical combinations, no combination has been able to achieve the indicators that Krivoroztali has. I'm not talking about where you actually don't pay the budget. And it's only now that they're starting to raise wages a little bit. Today, when we're talking about "Criminals", we're talking about this being the largest enterprise in the city of Curve Horn. Today will be the issue of the budget. These issues were addressed: the consequences of this criminal privatization? No, of course not. In general, I do not understand the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. Because we believe that Ukraine will no longer develop, that we have the fitting, that we have the building, that we don't need the metal? We say, and so calmly, "Yes, she's already breathing in the shade. Let's get her in the air." Therefore, today we are talking about the need to return to this issue, but we can only return with support. Respectable poachers, residents of the Dnepropetrov region! You've been hit. And I ask you to support the initiative of the Communist Party of Ukraine to protest against this criminal privatization. Only together can we make sure that this criminal act does not take place, which is the only objective before the presidential elections of the Donkey and our 'pinchuks' to share the largest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin refers the right to speak to Catherine Samuel. Please. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u8	Dear voters. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the women of Ukraine as the head of the Supreme Women's Council of the All-U.S. Women Workers' Union "For the Future of the Children of Ukraine" on the bloodbath solved by the United States of America, their supporters in Iraq. The world has seen the price of democracy, which we have been taught for more than ten years. Rape, humiliation of human dignity, abuse, the shooting of civilians, old people, children, women. The world’s gendarmes are no longer able to stop their dirty activities. Shame to Ukraine that our young Ukrainian military instead of serving the people of Ukraine have also become invaders. Abetted by the regime, they are forced to participate in the rape of Iraq and its people. We met the mothers of the dead, they curse themselves for having given written consent to their children's participation in the occupation of Iraq. What Jesuits were accustomed to motherhood, for by doing so they signed the death sentence on their sons, they cannot forgive themselves for it. The fraudulent authorities are also blackmailing mothers by as if their sons had shot themselves, and if only a word was said against it, the courts will confirm it. And when they lose their child, they don't even get small graves in the lives of their children. Shame on the authorities! Shame on the Secretary of Defense! Shame on those Ukrainian national MPs who put pressure on our children to alienation in search of death! Higher. All-Ukrainian Union of Women Workers for the Future of Children of Ukraine! All over Ukraine, starting on June 1st, he's doing the action, "Return our children from Iraq!".. On June 22, we invite everyone who loves life, peace, and happiness to our children to Kiev. Women of Ukraine, we will protect our sons! Let's defend Ukraine! We're not going to let Kuchmi, most of us, trade in Ukraine and our children, their unique lives. Join us on June 22 at 11 p.m. on the Main Independence Day. On this tragic day of the outbreak of the Great Homeland War, we'll say, "Return the children of Iraq! No bloody war!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u9	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction. Vladimir Leschchenko passes on Puzakov's right to speak. Please prepare Melniczuk instead of Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u10	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština "We Communists are deeply outraged by the saviours of the authorities of the city about honest, decent people, good masters, patriots of their people who cannot rob and destroy national acquisitions. These are the leaders of the KSP "Niva" in the New Ukraine region of Ogor Volodymyr Ivanovich." From this rostrum, I have raised many questions about illegal audits and checks of the successful worker, even in the current conditions of the New Ukraine region's New Ukraine level, which was not damaged by land or property funds. His chief, district council member, Ogor Vladimir Ivanovich, who stood up for people’s will and collective property, is virtually out of court. In March of this year, KSP members in a three - day standoff preserved the collective use of farmland, fields sown, born, and expected a good crop of grains, with winter wheat more than 2,000 acres [2,000 ha], stored and multiplied technology and buildings. Thus, a greedy lot, like a bone in the throat, gives no peace to local or republican reformers and business - fed businessmen. To break people’s resistance and prevent them from working peacefully, on May 25, they did not allow the KSP and its head to hold scheduled meetings of members of the KPC. In Bandit with the beatings, the rostrum was seized, the equipment was smashed. On repeated appeals to the police to help with the order, no measure was taken. And after more than two - hour riots in the hall, the KSP government decided to move the congregations to a different date. People left the hall, although some of their neighbours and former members of the KSPs, who held their meetings, liberated the KSP’s leadership and chose their long - dead ones. In violation of the legality and statutory requirements of the SPC, there was also a deputy prosecutor in the Nagorny district who found no basis for protest. He's got a duodenum, and he's got a lot of trouble. The regional and district authorities and their media are in awe of such a democracy, and the honest workers of the SAA are shocked by the actions that have been taken and shared about the abuse of the Head of Ogir and demand that real, legitimate congregations be held, and are ready for decisive action. On behalf of the Communists of Kirovograd, I appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine immediately to stop lawlessness against people, to intervene and introduce the incident into the legal field, and to assess the inaction of those responsible for upholding the rule of law and service. My statement is to be listed as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. And please support the women who are calling for the June 22 protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u11	Mikhailo Melniczuk is invited to perform instead of Singer. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is concerned about the situation in the village. In general, why, once again, should the government not accept effective measures suffer the people? Why do the authorities remain deaf to the number of issues that raise the Socialist MPs? Why is the fuel prices and the government's guarantee that it would not be more than 1,700 grivens for peasants today reached 40-60 percent? Why today neither the government nor the authorities will say whether the purchase price is going to be fixed to 600 bracelets, which is not real today, because it's a damage to the village, whether it's going to be a thousand, a thousand, two hundred bracelets. Will Ukraine still own the land of peasants or those who have taken this land into their own hands today? I could talk here today about examples of the NovoMoscow region, the Dnipropetrov region of Spassky village, and I've already talked about the decision of the court. Novopskowsk, Luhansk district, where the head of Chernyavsky is ruled by the land, not by peasants. Today, I could give an example of a number of performances by the national deputy Valentina Seminouk. And the last thing she and our faction are worried about is "Crowrystall" that's going on. And at least today I'd like to say, "And the Mosquito listens, to the delight!".. Because it's all about getting the Chrysalis out of my hands, or the son-in-law, or the others, just in case, I'm gonna have to wait for what's going to happen. Why the authorities remain deaf and do not respond to the appeal of national MP Stanislav Mikolayenka, a socialist who eats all of this in Hersonian, Santa. And why aren't we responding to that? But because power has other purposes today, it prepares for the election, it prepares not for the election, but for the presidency, that's why it's being prepared. And therefore, the honourable ones who are in power, after all, I think that the patient of the people will be cut off, the people will express their attitude towards today's authority, to the one and not the only, and will choose a worthy authority to represent the interests of the people. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u13	Terrence passes the right to speak to Andrew School. Solomatin will perform instead of Humiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u14	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko's faction. In this situation in the Ukraine market and gasoline market, in principle, silence and inaction in the Supreme Council, as I am, is shameful. There is a simple policy of our friendly Russian neighbor to twist his hands. You've already heard the TNC leadership statement, you've heard Alikperov's statement that no, we don't mind solving the situation with the stabilization of the fuel-oil market in Ukraine, but either give it to us in the Odessa-Boda concession, or at least use it in reverse. This information was published, and it seemed almost like a panacea to solve all the problems that had arisen in Ukraine with gasoline. Every day, the government reports that gas prices are going to fall, and despite the government's claim, they are going to rise. And so I would like to ask the government and try to answer this question, which would still be rhetorical: why did gas prices go up? Who's to blame? The Cossacks of Russia? Of course, they have room because everyone wants to take advantage of the world situation in the oil market. However, why did the government of Ukraine not provide a fuel reserve? Why was it not ensured that 30 percent of the oil consumed by Ukraine was produced in Ukraine? Why not at least turn that oil into a government fund? The talks were held, and until then no government fund had been created. Why did the government not refer to the Supreme Council with a bill on zero excise duty on imports of petrol from other countries into Ukraine? Why would the members of the Supreme Council do so, and so far, this bill is without effect, even though it is in principle the most pressing problem to be considered? And Julia Timoshenko's block firmly states that the government is responsible for the increase in gas prices. And talking about crops being allocated at low prices of diesel fuel, it's just as true as telling us all that the price of gasoline is going to fall or ever fall. The price of gasoline would not fall because we had to agree on the population, Ukraine, Ukraine, not the formation of an electoral campaign, not the formation of funds to open up a government or government candidate. And that's why I'm convinced that today's gas situation is entirely government. I'd like to address all the transport owners that you've become the first victim of an increase in gas prices. The rest of the population of Ukraine will be the second victim, because there will be an automatic price increase for both transportation and agricultural production, and for everything else that uses gasoline or transport. So the government will have to be responsible for its criminal acts sooner or later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u15	The word is given by Yuri Solomatin instead of by Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. I support the appeal of the head of the All-Ukrainian Women's Workers' Organisation for the Future of the Children of Ukraine, my colleague Catherine Samuelk, on behalf of this organization, to conduct a nationwide action on June 22 in Kiev at 11 a.m. on Maydan Independence in response to our military from Iraq. And secondly, the election campaign has not yet been announced, but the attacks on the anti-communists and the Communist Party of Ukraine have already begun. They began by branding our shrines and our sacred symbols. Recently, in the Galosian district of Kiev at night, an infamously wild vandal was demolished by a local partying monument, Volodymyr Illich Lenin. The investigation is ongoing. And in the city of Irpen, Kyiv district, under the city mayor's initiative, the centrist "moved" from the square before the city mayor to a remote, deserted place in the park, a monument, a huge monument by Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin, which was built a decade ago by a separate decision of the Council of Ministers of the U.S.R.R. and is listed on the list of architectural monuments that are protected by law and state. But to the city mayor, Skarżinski Volodymyr Danilovich, the laws of Ukraine are somewhere by the side. He refers to the fact that he reconciled his actions with the head of the city council of veterans, as if the captain of the second rank of the former naval forces by Hanjo Mikhail Ivanovich. That is, if such veterans and former military personnel as Hanja Mikhailo Ivanovich make a decision from this city’s veteran community, this will not go on. That's why. We have to say one thing: This is how we can act, Your Honor, we cannot, in Lenin's monument, the city authorities have decided to set up a huge clock, and the people of the city are already saying, this clock is going to be a countdown for the authority that did this kind of unworthy thing. Finally, the Kyiv district organization of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the Kyiv district organization of the All - Ukrainian Union of Soviet Officers, conducted a protest before the Irpine Ministry and initiated the initiation of a local referendum to recall the mayor and bring Lenin’s monument back to its legal place. And my presentation is, please, Volodymyr, Mikhailovich, consider it a parliamentary request and refer it to the General.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u17	Instead of Mary, Markus is John Mihovich, a faction of Communists. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u18	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear colleagues, guests, voters! On May 24, in his own apartment at the work table, the rector of the Uzhgorod National University, Slivka Volodymir Yuriovich, a district deputy for four vocations, a State Science and Technology Prize laureate, a merited scientist, an academic at the higher school, and just an understanding, honest, good, and wise person. Within a few hours, the district attorney’s office, the U.M.S.S.A., and the U.S.S.A., without providing the full scope of the investigation, issued a statement that the cause of death was suicide. If the law enforcement authorities have reached such a hasty conclusion, why is the possibility of leading to suicide not tested, why is there no appropriate expertise, including complex, with the involvement of independent experts in the field of psychology, psychiatry, and forensic medicine? Why no medical documentation has been removed at the place of treatment, examination, or medical supervision. As I know, a number of people have not been interviewed in recent months. The source of evidence, the origin, and the reliability of the facts on the basis of which articles were published in the local well - controlled newspaper and television. Other materials have been prepared, and numerous tests have been carried out by the C.R.E., the C.E.A., and other authorities of the university of state, of course, of the budgetary institution. Oral recommendations were made, especially on the telephone, regarding the release and threat of their ignoring by Pryvka. Moreover, they were unable to bury, as had already been done in spite of police protection, his house had been looted and only his cell phone and other technical equipment had disappeared. Slow, one - sided steps by law enforcement agencies and the involvement of information have led to conjecture, accusations. Why? Because everyone realizes that the tragic death of Plumsy is primarily a political factor. The district executive did everything in its power to serve her, and when it failed, she used various means of pressure. Moreover, it is not an isolated case. In recent times, in the area, the director of the Regional Art Foundation, the head of the local pension office, the head of the Department of Management, has been killed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u19	Please, it's Mikola Tomenko. And we're done. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u20	Mikola Tomenko, head of the Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear colleagues, on behalf of our committee and on behalf of Victor Yushchenka's Block, I would like to welcome the journalists and their professional world, which will be celebrated on June 6th, while at the same time paying attention to the problems of the old and the new ones in the information field today. The fact is, in recent times, we have generally not seen any serious changes and lies about the oil crisis, as well as the lie that Parliament does not want to work, rather than fight to prevent the privatization of strategic enterprises before the presidential elections continue in central channels. Anyone who hasn't seen it can look at the 3rd floor of the Ukrainian know-how exhibition that the President's Administration has invented, the darkens are controlled by the information space through these documents. But more problems have arisen with Parliament itself. Today, the authorities of Yanuković and Medvedczuk are already fighting with parliament and national deputies. Today began. The letters about the fact that the next session should ban direct radiation, because it seems to say that the Presidential Herald is a very low level of political and legal culture, and the people are very concerned when they listen to the national MPs on the radio. Letters like that and these are now going to all national channels and trying to stop direct radiation from September. Today, the President's Administration has sent a call to all the heads of the district directors of the radio organizations to find reasons for refusing to give the national deputies their right to air on television and radio. Today, appropriate instructions have been sent to print media outlets so that the quotas are not given to MPs for any of the intended reasons. We've discussed this issue on the committee, and we're proposing to the Supreme Council at the next session to consider, to invite the relevant officials of the Cabinet of Ministers here to tell them whether they will follow the instructions of the President's Administration, whether they will comply with the rules of law by which the National MP has the right to inform his electorate at the appropriate time, as well as the National Deputies as the Supreme Council have the full right to speak directly about the painful problems that are in society, because today it is the only possible for people to hear through a direct broadcast of what is being done in Ukraine. So, drawing attention to the next attack on those remaining freedom of speech and live air, I finally, in welcoming journalists, just wanted to remind them that the presidents and prime ministers are coming and going, and their taxes, their money is just as quickly forgotten, and their professional journalistic dignity and conscience are not coming back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We've completed the speeches by the national deputies, the announcement of requests, statements, messages, proposals. We need to consider with you now the inclusion of the daily bills of 5515, 5516, 5517. I ask you to support the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. [[11:15:48]] For 283
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u22	Decision taken. We made a deal with you. I'm afraid we're going to be looking at these three questions under a reduced procedure. Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyevich is invited to report as the author of the draft law. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Reconstruction and Exploitation on the Payable Basis of the Kiev-Odes Road is under consideration in the area from Jaskov to the Red Label. The government has requested an appropriate letter proposing to support these three projects as necessary. [[I'm asking the secretariat to hand him over to the National Deputies.]] Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! If you don't mind, I'll report two laws at the same time because they're linked. [[5515 and 5516]] These are changes to the Law that we passed with you last year, almost a year ago, on reconstruction, on the basis of the commercial operation of the Kiev-Odessa road, on the Jashkov-Redmark section. [[First Bill 5515]] The purpose of the law is to expand the law so that we have the way all the way from Kiev to Odessa. That is, two additional sites are included, 138 kilometres from Kiev to Jaskov and 66 kilometres from Red Cross to Odessa. I would like to emphasize, my fellow Members, that two of the draft provisions are: the first to expand the law adopted a year ago; and the second to provide financial conditions for road construction. That is, the possibility of providing guarantees for a year and a half before the road began to operate, and the beginning of commercial operation of the road. In terms of the road construction project, I believe that today this project is a state-wide project and the most powerful innovation and investment project. We do not have a major project of significance, significance and impact on the economy of the State as a whole, and four areas through which we are passing the road. We have not had a major project in all the years of independence of Ukraine. And what such reform has done, and there are proposals to extend the law, I would like to support this. When it comes to the social significance of such a powerful construction, it is not possible to evaluate it today. Because these are jobs, these are paid to 50 contracting organizations, more than 50 contracting organizations are working to build the road. Of them, 41st is our native. I mean, it's construction equipment, it's construction workers. Construction of the 41st bridge, total cost, total construction, 460 million euros. When it comes to payment and repayment of credit, it means that after a year and a year and a half when the concession contract enters into force, the concession will pay off the loan. It is assumed that there are already signed documents, consenting to a loan of 150 million euros to the Italian Government, which means the Italian Bank. " Two hundred million. and the Italian Government 100 million, i.e. 150 are Italian banks. In terms of road fares, commercial exploitation is expected to take place, i.e. since 2006. And the following tariffs will be set for the first three, four years, seven copies per kilometer for light transport, 15 for bus and 25 for trucks. Estimated time of return on the road for 16 years. Since 2021, tariffs are expected to be set at 19, 40 and 53, respectively. I would like to point out that this level is not greater than 75 per cent, which has been adopted in Europe today. Once again, State guarantees are needed only a year and a half before the commercial exploitation of the road begins. Please, distinguished people's deputies, support these bills both as a basis and as a whole, so that we do not miss this hot summer time, which is very important for construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u24	Thank you. Have a seat, Vladimir Anatolyovich. Short-term procedure, but you just voted. By a reduced procedure, respected colleagues. Who will report from the committee? Let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please explain. You voted in favour of a reduced procedure. I wasn't in the hall. Raise it, please. From the Committee of Klimpus Oreste Dmitrovic, please take two bills: 5515, 5516. Then it's 5515.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. What's proposed by the bill is that you know and understand. And I'm convinced that virtually all of us understand the need to complete such a large structure and a big project that was launched. I think that the need to ensure the effective functioning of the entire route from Kiev to Odessa is understandable to everyone and therefore to the concessionaires' demands that loans be granted in the event that it is predicted that such a road will work as a whole. It's also perfectly logical. I would also like to emphasize to you that there is a need to reconstruct today's active and reconstructed areas from Kiev to Jaskov and from Krasnomenka to Odessa. These areas, even though they have four lanes to move around, do not match either horizontal planning or vertical planning, especially from a position of traffic safety, from a intersection point of intersection in one plane, in different planes, and so on. Of course, it is necessary for drivers to create identical conditions that are completely similar to safety and under conditions throughout the area, because this is psychologically important. And the last. The proposed road is only possible if an alternative road is built. This needs to be understood, and this is an absolute requirement, this is a requirement of laws, and the roads will have to be made. So all the way through -- from Kiev to Odessa, you have to create the right opportunity for an alternative free pass, which is very important. In general, this project, which is reported, has a positive conclusion from the Chief Research Administration and a positive conclusion from the Cabinet of Ministers. Science and expertise, in particular, has made a number of observations that are quite correct. And I'm pretty sure you can count them on second reading. With regard to the introduction of the bill, it must be introduced on January 1, 2005, in order to avoid collisions with the budget. As a whole, our committee has considered in order to control the construction of the site today on the Jashkow-Red-Knowledge area, and everything is in accordance with the law. The life and condition of the road in this region requires us to respond more quickly, and we ask that we support this project, which will allow us to engage more quickly in the area that is now being implemented in the area of Jashkov-Red Science. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u26	Thank you, Orestes Dmitrovich. Have a seat, please. Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee on Bill 5516 of the Budget, who will be speaking? None. Let's move on to the discussion, dear fellows. Discussion of draft laws 5515, 5516. Please put your names on the board. The word is Mironenko, a faction of Communists. Prepare Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u27	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine objects to the adoption of this bill, which extends the payment system throughout the Kiev-Odessa road. Which is the system of paid services, we already know. Those capitalists, who were established in the 91st year, promised us that paid health care would be excellent. We see what it's like. We see that a narrow number of people are profited by life and health. What we see as paid education is the elimination, once again, of the constitutional, democratic rights of most of Ukraine's population, well, and an obstacle to Ukraine's progress. Well, and the paid roads, of course, will lead to the fact that the roads currently used by the vast majority of citizens will be even worse, because the money from Gosbudget will be channelled primarily on paid roads, we all understand that. For these reasons, we believe that the economic and social people of Ukraine do not benefit from the adoption of the bill. Secondly, we assume a bill that guarantees the Government, that is, Gosbudget, all the same taxpayers. Credits often go up, and no one is responsible for the routing. Thirdly, unfortunately, the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, which is in charge of this issue, is often my personal position that money is being illegally redistributed. I would like to ask here a question for the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Kirpe. He issued Order No. 312, which provides for the de facto transfer of funds from Ukrainian seaports in favour of one structure and will be directed towards certain purposes, i.e. the illegal transfer of funds. Here are the questions. First, why the Minister of Transport of Ukraine issued an order in violation of several laws, including the Code of Merchandise Navigation, which assumes that port captains are required to monitor maritime safety. Port! And there's some kind of chemistry here: the captains are trying to take it out of the ports and make it all go away. Second, please answer why this is happening, well, dishonesty is happening: we are told 30 per cent, for example, the Kerchny Seaport will lose. And they say it's gonna be okay, it's not gonna hurt the port. And we're saying that the reduction is going to be, the calculations are that a thousand people in Kerch's city are going to increase unemployment by a thousand people. And so in other cities. Or, at the very least, they will reduce wages, and that is once again a robbery of the regions. Where are we going? Please answer these questions. And I call for a vote against the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u28	Yes, dear fellows. We already have one position against it. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u29	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Of course, in recent times we have noted that there is actually road construction in the country. And if we talk about the region of Cherniewets, we're very happy today that there's a road around the Chernivites. But, Georgi Mikolaiovich, we need a little more money to end this year and put these roads into service. We would also like to ask you: with the support of other projects to support the construction of roads, especially in the areas of the mountainous region: this is about Ivano-Frankovishte, Lvivščina, Chernivečina, especially in the Chernivecke region is the Visnitnicke, Putivl district, the Starożinetski district. Because, in fact, there are many road construction problems to date. According to Bill 5515, I would like to make the following statement. Are we even willing to make use of the roads in Ukraine on a paid basis? By the time the average citizens do not have a piece of bread today, we would like to see it. If this were to be delayed, and the roads still need to be built, and we're speaking, socialists, for the roads in Ukraine to be built. And travel is free of charge on those roads that would be planned today at the expense of money, which is to be postponed until citizens have the opportunity and pay for travel. Next question. I'd like to address you, George Mikolaiovich. I've given you a parliamentary appeal to restore the Kiev-Chernow train through Moldova. I've got tens of thousands of people coming to me, signatures coming from the Cherniewsky region, from the Hmelnitsky region, the Kamyanec-Podil district. Children are taught in Kiev and so on. We ask you very much to make this move towards voters who would like this train to move through the territory of Moldova. No matter what the nuances are, we think you can solve this. As far as supporting this bill is concerned, the faction will be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u30	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u31	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Ukraine suffers from a lack of good roads. Good roads will increase social dynamics and thus improve the prospects of the Ukrainian nation. Despite the importance of roads, however, the regime has never produced a promising and understandable policy for citizens of the state to build transport infrastructure. Thus, the government’s activities in this area are not marked by national wisdom, perspective, and ideologies. This conclusion is also confirmed by the bill. I'm surprised why not the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing such a bill, but the people's deputies. So what are we offered? We're offering to pay for the entire Kiev-Odes road. According to the previous law, there should be a road in the area from Jaszkov to the Redfish, that is to say, it is proposed to extend the experiment of reconstruction and exploitation on a paid basis throughout the road. Dear friends! What, we're done experimenting on the area we've been taking? What do we know about the results of this experiment? No, we don't know how much money is being used, we don't know how much work is being done, and we're being told, let's expand this experiment already. The other one. Is it necessary to introduce a toll road 500 km away in our wild state? There's no such thing. Europe, there is no such thing in any country of the world that such lengths are paid! Or do we have an alternative to this road so that people can walk? Nor is it! Therefore, dear friends, let us be responsible for such things. Let's do one experiment and start another experiment. The other one. This law offers State guarantees to creditors. What creditors are not in the law, what is the name of the creditor, under which conditions there is no again. So we're going to be able to raise any money today, how much money, we don't know what time it is, what bets. Who will pay for these things? The government doesn't want to take responsibility. That's why we've introduced the MPs who put these bills in place so that we can consolidate by our vote this future theft and the future privatization of this road. And let's face it, this bill is going to lead to the fact that the road from Odessa to Kiev is going to be a different "Criminal". The third they're offering. This technical and commercial operation on the basis of the pay-per-view road of Kiev-Odessa is carried out by an organization defined in accordance with the prescribed law. What law is it made to be an organization, respected friends? So I'm authoritatively telling you that this is a pyramid that will lead to the theft of a huge amount of money and no solution to the problem. So I propose not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Of course, it is difficult for me to speak after the emotional performance of John Alexander the Rabbit. But, John Alexanderovich, I would like you to listen to other thoughts that are in the Odessy. The Odessyths have such thoughts. First. In the country, 15,000 people die each year from accidents, including more than half of them due to road cover. Not once, when I'm on this road, and for 11 years, it's a regular one, no one ever gets one or two accidents. If you look at why they happened, they didn't happen because they were too fast, they were due to a completely inequitable road cover. And the roads in the state have to be made. At one time, the transportation corridor must be made so that it does not bypass Ukraine. Another question that needs to be asked before the Ministry of Transport before the government bans large trucks by 20, 30 tons on the road during the summer period. Allow only after 19 hours. Because the asphalt is on fire and then this route is "killed." And even that route that's being made today, Georgiy Mikolaiovich, even that route that you're making, it's being used by more heavily loaded cars. Thus, it is necessary to prohibit traffic during the summer period when the heat is 25 degrees Fahrenheit [25 ° C] above. This is already an experience throughout the world. The other one. This law can't be passed in two readings right away -- just in the first reading. To clean up the troubles that have just been discussed. In particular, what an organization does is defined in the order prescribed by law. So let's predict this in this law. What organization? Let's write, "state organization." And so on. The other one. You and I have predicted that an alternative road will be built and that there will be a free road. So people definitely have a choice between paid and free. And you gave your word here, Georgiy Mikolaiovich, that will definitely be a car road and free of charge, including. I would also like to write down the formula proposed by the expert management: "The reconstruction of the Kiev-Odes road is being carried out in order of an experiment in the interests of the economy of Ukraine and the economic development of Kiev, Cherkaske, Kirovograd, Mikolai and Odessa areas with the participation of credit funds, including State guarantees." The second law on the granting of State guarantees also needs to be adopted only by writing about what comes into force on January 1, 2005. [[in the first reading]] This will be entirely in line with budget legislation, not as yet in the project
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u34	The Minister of Transport of Cyprus has the floor. Please, there's a microphone. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention, because the question is very important. We can ask each other a lot of questions today, and we can look at them on the subject, not on the subject, not on the subject, not on the subject, not on the subject, not on the subject of the sea, not on the airline and all the other issues, because we have a lot of questions in our country today. But if you ask questions and listen to the answers and do nothing concrete, these questions will always exist. You have to do specific things, you see that we're doing them today, we're showing an example that we can do independently of the level of legislation that exists in the state today. Some suspect pyramids, some suspect the purposeless use of funds. Today, go on the road and look at the state of the road, and there's $1 billion,200 million invested in this road, which has never been given to anyone, 350 million. Debt. Nine foreign nations, more Ukrainians, are working on the political road, this is the road to the future for the development of transport infrastructure in Ukraine. You know, no one's ever made artificial breaths dead. We revived this road so that investors would be involved. With regard to the alternative route, as you remember the law of May 22, last year, it states that the road will only work when an alternative road is built, either on a section, or at a distance from Kiev to Odessa. That's why no one's going. And we, and more than that, as deputies, you know perfectly well how to open it up as a salary until an alternative is built. Now, tell me, if we build two roads in this direction at the expense of investments, is it going to be good or bad? Main and alternate. I think it's just a benefit. So I propose that these laws be passed in general because they are tied to each other to vacations in Europe so that we can start getting the money, and this mess that is on the road is not left for winter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u36	From the motives of Paul and Asadchev. So I asked who from the committee was no one. One moment, let Paul speak. You'll be out in a minute. Calm down. All right, all right, calm down. Pavluk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, what I'm about to say. Much would have been removed from today's discussion if the draft had been submitted to and considered by the Transport Committee. Unfortunately, 19 of us have considered the state of affairs on this road, neither you nor Autodor have come at all. And now they've put this bill in the hall. The fact that he needs to be taken properly and built on the road doesn't have to convince anyone, everyone understands that. But this must be done in a transparent and understandable way. What kind of organization will then manage the road where these loans are, under what conditions, when the road is completed, when the payment starts, where will Minfin take the money to make changes to the 2004 budget? That's what you have to answer now and then take to second reading, and it's normal civilized to accept and not convince each other here of what's understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u38	Asadchev, please, from the 5516 bill committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear friends, I just want to thank Deputy Pavlück, who, for the first time, I think raised the question professionally. Indeed, no one denies the construction of the road. What's more, no one's going to stop her, Mr. Minister. I can even tell you more, today on the budget committee they want to help both your ministry and the road to complete it. True, you have never appeared on the budget committee. It's an economic problem. You know, you can't do bad things on good things. Let's figure this out. You know, we've had a lot of cases where the state has been granting loan guarantees. What's "guarantee"? This is when two nonstate entities make a deal, the borrower takes a loan, and the state acts as a guarantor. He didn't give up his credit, and the state, which is you and I, the citizens, gave up our money for it. From time to time, we stopped this practice, but then we started to demand that if there was such a situation that the state was going to be a guarantor, because, you know, the investors didn't want to go to us very much, there would have to be, as it were, a bank fuse, another bank that would give an absolute guarantee that if it didn't, it would then be responsible to the state. What do they propose now? They're offering not to do that, which is cancel it, so there's no bank-tearer -- once, and secondly, I guarantee you, the loan is taken away by "Standhodor." The "snatchedor" is a state structure. So we feel that this is going to be a sovereign debt. So today, I would totally support what Deputy Pavlük said: let's take it on the first reading. I would very much like the Ministry to come to the budget committee, because this is impossible to accept without changing the budget, because this is an increase in government debt. Let's figure it out, let's actually figure it out, and who's going to guarantee the road itself? Who's the insurance man? Who Is to Insured? If there's a pit tomorrow, on that road, who's responsible? What is the terms of the covenant? Let's work professionally, dear friends. You can't, you know, wash money with good intentions. And I can tell you that I really know the situation on this road today. So they made deals with general contractors who don't have assets or techniques, nothing like one table and one pen. They're general contractors. And they've already recruited a bunch of contractors -- and they're sitting there just doing money laundering. Let's figure out: we're for building roads, we're for automobiles, but it's got to be, you know, government money, let's count them carefully. So I would like to suggest in the first reading that we accept and continue to figure out, count, and that we, in effect, make a journey and not lose our national money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on Bill 55. What, what? Did you report it? Klimpush Committee. Make yourself at the committee, please. I'm not working for you on the committee. Dear colleagues, Bill 5515. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Reconstruction and Exploitation on the Pay-Plane Road "Kyiv-Odessa" in the area from Jaskov to Red Science. Please vote. [[11:47:15.]] For 256 Copy that. Calm down, please! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Bill 5516: Draft Law on the involvement of credit resources to finance the reconstruction of the Kiev-Odessa road in the area from Jaskov to the Redfish. Since this is a specific law, I put it to a vote: the adoption of it as a whole as a law. 5516. Please vote. This is the second draft of the law. Please vote. It was discussed, this law, that was discussed. [[11:48:19]] For 282 Decision taken. Announcing the draft Law on the involvement of credit resources for financing the design and construction of a rail and road bridge crossing across the Dnipro River in Kiev. Reporter: Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please go to the rostrum. Prepare for the Budget Committee. Please report to Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u41	Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished MPs! Respected
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u42	Please. Vladimir Anatolyevich. I said, who's going to report the first bill from the committee? Klimpus Oreste Dmitrovich said he would report from the committee. Get out of the way, please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u43	A bill submitted to you for discussion of 5517 on the use of credit resources for the construction of a railway and road bridge crossing through the Dnepr River in Kiev. You, distinguished people's deputies, you know perfectly well and each one of us, I think every day you feel that there are no good roads and bridges today. Kiev is suffocating today without new bridges. Every morning and every night we stand in traffic to move from the left to the right or vice versa. In recent years, Kiev has had a strong development. This is quite objective because there has been accumulation as a country's financial resource, economic resources; construction, housing, industry and, of course, infrastructure development is needed today to maintain this pace. Construction is provided in the area of Wydubici-Darnica between the railway bridge and the South Bridge. It's not a separate project, it's in combination with the construction of a new train station, a train station in Darnica, which will provide an additional rail flow. It's worth about $700 million. It is understood that the train station will be established at the end of 2005 and the bridge at the end of 2006. This will allow for increased intensity and rail transport and the unloading of road flows. It's a question of redemption. The project involves 10 years of repurchase through the operation of the railway by means of the transport of “Urzalizniki”. In terms of the importance of this project for the economy as a whole, I think you will agree that it is invaluable that the accumulation of this amount of resources, the financial and building capacity, will cause the intensive development of the construction industry, give new jobs, these are wages. I would very much like to ask everyone, distinguished people's deputies, to support this project. This has indeed been one of the largest projects in the years of our independence, and there have not been, in fact, such a scale. It's really investment, it's innovative. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee's co-narrator will be the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna. Please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! The draft law on the inclusion of credit resources for financing the design and construction of the railway and road-road crossings across the Dnipro River in Kiev is supported with regard to the adoption of it in the first reading and adoption of it as a whole, because it means only one thing -- it is a partial change in the mechanism for guaranteeing the participation of such credit resources. The rationale is that, first of all, the State is pursuing such involvement exclusively in the interests of ensuring the safety and development of rail traffic in Ukraine. Under such conditions, we have the right and should use mechanisms to provide State guarantees. Because of the fact that such resources are involved, it is not companies that are making commercial profits from a particular type of activity, but that it is ensuring the movement and development of rail transport in Ukraine. As far as our warnings are concerned, we need to pay attention. First of all, it should be borne in mind that this amount of funding is not foreseen for service in 2004. Therefore, we would ask the Cabinet of Ministers to provide such a guarantee and to make appropriate agreements to provide for the costs of servicing these debts exclusively from 2005. And that's in principle for us. Under other circumstances, the State budget will not be able to handle such a public debt. We also need to make a warning about how to define the special order of distribution of these credit resources and how to use them on the basis of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation in order to ensure transparency in the use of funds that will then be repaid from the State Budget. Unfortunately, we've come up with a practice lately that we've banned the granting of guarantees to the government under any kind of project. And this largely inhibits the development of large projects that can make Ukraine have quality changes, which can then create new jobs and generate additional revenue for the government budget. And I would also like to point out that if we were to look at the issue of lending and the government of Ukraine to other states, that would give us an opportunity to increase the market for our products, as today, the Russian Federation is doing, let's say, giving guarantees to other states for over $800 million in 2004. It is therefore proposed that this bill be supported, bearing in mind that its services should be carried out exclusively from 2005. And to anticipate additional costs in the following year not only for the construction of this passage through the Dnipro River in Kiev, but also in Zaporozhye, because there is exactly the same problem that exists today in Kiev and, in general, with rail transport in the Kyiv region. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u46	Thank you, Ludmila Paulie, for you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please, on the board, the name of the national MPs who signed up for the discussion, we need two pros and two opposites. I would ask those who speak at the end or at the beginning to make a clear statement on this point. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u47	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Cherniewec region, Ukrainian Association of Land and Property Owners. Of course, the Socialist Party faction supports all these construction projects. But we can't fail to make some warnings about what, if investment is involved and a state guarantee is given, then it is certain that it will not burden Ukrainian citizens because of the corresponding taxes. It's going to take some time again, and we're not in a situation where we have to give up the 700 million that are going to be involved in the construction. And the fact that there is a real problem today in Kiev is that. This problem was certainly controversial in Parliament between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport. And I think that, once again, my special thought is that everything about construction needs to be supported. Because it is not just for us today, but for our future generation, for the future city of Kiev and Ukraine, it is a very positive phenomenon. And I'd also like to look at these projects, and I'd like to go to the minister again, because it's not every day that we have to pay attention, once again, to the Western regions, especially in the mountain areas, to the construction of bridges. Because they are often ruined by spring seasons, and the cost is not enough to restore them. And it certainly is on the shoulders of those who live in these areas. As far as supporting this bill is concerned, the faction will be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u48	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. Is there a Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u49	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Kiev today needs bridges between the right and the left, and it is clear that it is necessary to plan the funds to do so. Clearly, government guarantees should be given if there are structures that can lend. But once again, we see in this bill what we saw in the previous bill. It is not said who will provide these guarantees, nor does it say on what terms this would be granted, or who would lend them. It is not said on what terms this loan is granted, nor is the interest rate and the maturity of the loan, in which amounts should be allocated in the annual budgets over the years and so on. So once again, let's talk about what we're going to do, honourable national MPs, you give us the general formula, you give us the opportunity to get 700 million dollars, and as we use them, let's not get hurt, we'll use them the way we want to use them. Therefore, honourable national deputies, let us take these matters seriously. I'm in charge of making loans like this, I'm in charge of building bridges. But I definitely do not want us to vote as we voted in favour of the previous bill. When you were asked to give state guarantees for 400 million dollars. Euro, to whom? What percentages? How will they be used? How will the years be broken? And you voted because you agreed that you would have any benefit or, I don't know, a decision like that. So, honourable national MPs, I once again urge you to take these things seriously. We're going to have to give this loan, we're going to have to vote on this bill in the first reading. But we have to make some adjustments here already -- how much funding will there be in this year, how much next year, what conditions will this loan use, in general, how will this project work? Whether we do it again, as we do now, we destroy all the green plants, we destroy all our islands on Dniper, we destroy Kiev, as we might say, the green capital in Europe. And we're going to think we're good things to do with you? These are not good things, distinguished national MPs. We need to stop this squall, this bulldozer who is thoughtlessly destroying Ukraine today, which is thoughtlessly destroying Kiev today, which is thoughtlessly destroying our nature today. And I urge you to be responsible for such things. And I'm talking to Vladimir Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, no one could discuss two bills in as many as 12 minutes, and you came to vote without actually discussing the bill where the language went, a lot or so, two billion dollars. This is how we spend our national money today. That's 10 billion. hidden today, how they work!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, at 11: 15 a.m., we began to consider drafts. Now it's 12 hours, so the time has been long enough. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski. Is there a Vladimir Yavorowski? None. Then Andrew School will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a very serious question that we are considering right now. And I'd like to see and hear the opinion of the Kiev city head Alexander Alexander Omelchenka, but I do know that the Kiev City Council viewed it as a government, and in general agreed to make such a decision. Well, if he were here, we'd have heard him think about it. I think it would be very important. And, in principle, we would have to practice this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, when the issues are resolved so seriously, the measures of such cities where these issues are resolved should be invited to this room. The "Our Ukraine" faction has been proven to be hidden in the State budget for this year by about 15 billion dollars, which can be quietly released today for construction, including investment, whether it's a rail-road bridge crossing, or just two passages, including Zaporozhye. And it is the blockade of these projects, which are proposed by National Deputy Yushchenk, National MP Pinzenik, that prevents them from showing all the anatomy that money is found in and how they can be involved today, so that they can work on Ukraine's budget rather than start working on the election campaign of one of the candidates. When I look at today's bill, I have the same approach as the last time, I say that such serious bills can be adopted in the first reading, and then a week later I'll pass on the proposals that Ludmila Pavelna Suprun here said on behalf of the budget committee, which is to take into account there and also build a bridge in Zaporozhye. Maybe there's something to say about financing the design and construction of rail-car crossings across the Dnipro River. But you have to, it's already a question of second reading. Today we need to unlock the issue so that credit can be involved. I think it's a very big deal that starts with construction and roads and bridges, and when they say "what's the basis?" Please tell us, what is the basis, and how can we reassure those who have perished and perished in our paths? What basis can be found? No justification can be found. So Ukraine should be a civilized state, but it must be done in an entirely civilized way. And the law should take effect, not from the day of publication, but from 2005, as provided for by the State Budget Act and the Budget Code. I think it's with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u52	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u53	Thank you. On behalf of the faction, I would like to state that, of course, the faction in the first reading will support this bill, but only in view of the proposals that we're going to make here. First of all, it would have to be clear why the Ministry and the Kyiv City Council were at odds, why this construction could not be funded from the Kiev budget. You know, the city of Kiev is a very poor city, it collects over a billion dollars of taxes, so it has a profit. This is a profitable city, the only city in Ukraine that has the status of a capital and, accordingly, the Capital Act, and has the opportunity to make a fruitful use of these funds. On the other hand, Kyiv’s population cannot be held hostage by a misunderstanding between the Ministry and the Kiev administration. So, normally, we need to support the Loan Act, but with the warnings that were made by both representatives of the Budget Committee and my predecessors. But most importantly, which is not even one bridge, Kiev needs at least three more bridges. That's why we can't close our eyes here. The only thing the Supreme Council has to do is control the use of funds. Because borrowing means we're taking money today, and tomorrow, in a year, we're going to have to pay it back. So each borrowed copy has to be used in a targeted way, and each used copy has to be documented. And anyone who press the "yes" button, don't forget that many of you will come back or can go back to this House again -- and have to answer for their vote. So this vote should not only be conscious of "yes" or "no", but also in terms of further tracking the use of funds. Because, frankly, it's a good idea. If this idea does not fail, then it will be possible to use the funds involved in the construction of other objects in Kiev, which both the city and the whole of Ukraine absolutely and absolutely need. We live in a no-road country and let's not at least make our capital a bridgeless capital. Well, we've got to figure something out. Just as I remember you all literally a few days ago, I overflew Kiev’s rumor that the city of Patton had fallen. Many people believed this rumor because they know that the city of Patton needs capital repair, and it is not known whether it can be saved, so there was an aging of constructions, that is, the time spent for this bridge, so it is necessary to build bridges in Kiev. But we need to do this clearly, clearly, legally and anyone who votes in favour should know that when we vote in the first reading, we can have full responsibility there for a week or so to vote in the second reading and in general, knowing that everything is okay here in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u54	The word is given by the Minister of Transport, Kirpa Georgiy Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u55	Dear National Deputies! As far as the Law on the Bridge is concerned, it is the procedure of giving the Cabinet of Ministers the right to guarantee. As far as this is concerned, I am telling you today that no amount of money will be covered from the construction of the bridge or this guarantee at the expense of the budget. This will be done on the basis of the economic activity of Ukrainian railways. You tell me, when we did the old train station and we built it, we asked for guarantees or money from someone. When we made speed on the Harks or the Dnipropetrovsks, did we ask someone for a guarantee? When we drive children under the age of 16, do we ask someone for guarantees or budget money? We're not asking anything, and we're self-sufficient railways in Ukraine to provide ourselves, to develop infrastructure. Here's another question. We need to build a city and a train station in Darnica at the same time, because the city is not needed without a train station, and the train station is not needed without a bridge. To that end, we asked for guarantees, to postpone the budget on the bridge for an appropriate period of economic activity in order to build a city and a train station at the same time and to obtain efficiency from this money. And as for the pyramids, I'm sorry, but I don't think we've given anyone a job in four years to suspect us of loving pyramids, and they're gone. I ask that you accept it in general as a law that gives you the right to conclude a guarantee. And if the question is that we've been moving it since 2005 since 1 January, I don't deny it. Even so, we're going to ask investors to start these jobs, and we're going to pay a lot of money, and we're already doing, by the way. We've taken out today and prepared a mystic for Darnicki Station, and we're already designing a bridge. We're already doing this. But I'd like to make it quicker so that, as the school has done, you can see this city and the train station, and we'll invite you all to their opening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u56	We're voting, aren't we? Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'm going to put to the vote with the proposal that I've been making, a statement from the Committee on Budgets, as informed by Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna, and I've agreed to the Minister of Transport since 1 January 2005. And with this clarification, I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole, as a law, the draft law of Ukraine on the inclusion of credit resources for financing, design and construction of the railway and bridge crossings across the Dnipro River in Kiev. [[Registration number 5517]] Please vote. [[12:12:35.]] For 289 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you. We won't let you down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u58	Nigga, out of procedure. Now we're going to have to consider a few more very important bills and I'd like to ask the MPs to focus. Please, Nigger. 12:59
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u59	Honorable National MPs. I voted yes. The city needs to be built and there is no doubt about it. But there are two issues that need to be resolved after we have voted in favour of this Law. First question. It's a question of a project. The minister said the project was being developed. The question is what kind of project the city will build on and how it will solve the issue of transport output from Kiev, environmental problems, how it will be connected in one of the nodes with the station and so on. So it's a complex of technical, technological, environmental problems. And the second question. How the funds will be used, and how effective it will be, whether there will be a control mechanism, or whether there will be a dissipation of these funds. These two questions will need to be settled immediately after this Law is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we need to consider a number of short-term laws, but very important in terms of their meaning. The first is the draft Law on the Sorting of Nuclear Safety. These bills are primarily related to the construction of two blocs to provide energy security for the state. Who will report? Mikhailo Melniczuk, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The proposed draft of the Ukrainian Nuclear Safety Ordering Act aims to determine the legal and organizational principles, the financial security of activities, and the decommissioning of nuclear installations. These relationships are very relevant today. Since Ukraine has not yet established a legal basis for the preparation and disposal of nuclear facilities that have worked their resources. Unless a decision is made to extend the operation of nuclear facilities to 2025, all nuclear installations operating today must be removed and maintained. At the same time, the project deadline for the completion of the first nuclear installation is 2011. Taking into account the current economic conditions in and and as well as the international experience in financing the decommissioning of nuclear installations, the only way to solve this problem is to create a financial reserve of the funds of the operating operator organization. The main source of such reserves should be the calculation of the net income of the operating organization-operator. The bill determines that the reserve of accounts of an operational operator organisation is a body authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The size of the deductions for the formation of a financial reserve of funds prior to the approval of decommissioning projects from the operation of a nuclear installation is determined by the removal of the nuclear installation after the approval of the project, taking into account the necessary costs foreseen by the project. In order to define a special regime for the protection of cash in the account, with special regimes for the use of coercive charges, the draft law proposes to amend Ukraine’s laws on how to pay taxpayers’ obligations to budgets and government trust funds, and on implementing implementation. The bill also provides that, in order to protect the financial reserve from inflation, the operating operator can invest the funds that have been accumulated and the profits from this activity can be directed as an additional source to the formation of a financial reserve of funds for decommissioning from the operation of nuclear installations. The responsibility for the purpose of using the financial reserve is based on the operator’s operating organization, and control over its purpose is exercised by authorized government authorities. In order to eliminate the unjustified increase in the tariff on electricity, which nuclear power stations have proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. These changes provide that the amounts of the tax paid by the operating organization in the financial reserve are not included in its gross income. If the revenue of an operator’s operating organization for the formation of a financial reserve of funds for the financing of future decommissioning measures is not exempt from tax on the income of enterprises, in order to form a financial reserve for the financing of the planned amount of work from the operation of nuclear installations, the amount should be calculated taking into account the need for an operator to carry out the relevant tax obligations. This means that only 62.5 percent of the consumer’s spending on the formation of the financial reserve can be used. Moreover, it should be noted that there will be no loss of the State budget in connection with the adoption of the bill. The adoption of this bill will allow for timely and safe removal from the operation of nuclear facilities at the expense of the operating organization, not at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u62	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Short-term procedure, two for, two against. The word has been given by the national deputy Shibko. Prepare Solomon. Microphone from the spot, Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u63	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Šibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Dnipropetrovsk I, the honorable radio listeners, the honourable colleagues, wanted to point out that it is time for me to actually have such laws. You've probably read a very carefully explanatory note that was added to this bill today, and there are actually questions in 2005 about how to get out of the operation of those nuclear installations that have passed a certain term. Indeed, the question before Ukraine is: What can we do next? Should these facilities be used, resuscitated, or repaired, or should they be put out immediately in order to make yourself comfortable in a situation where today there is such a powerful nuclear potential in Ukraine? That's the first one. And the second. I would like to support the law and say that it is necessary to say that unfortunately, this bill has little to say about how to deal with waste, because in addition to being a nuclear plant, there are still wastes that need to be buried, those that should also be exploited in the regime plan that they are already in use. And I'd like to say that here we should probably add that in addition to transparency, what is financing the need to do these things, we need to turn and make a list of the sites that we have that are nuclear wastes. I mean, for example, Dniprodijnski. Today it's the only place in the world that Dniprojnski means when these nuclear wastes are somewhere along the Dnipro River. And for today, we barely have enough money to keep this situation from being torn apart, when nuclear waste, rain flow, or some rain that might happen, is going to get into Dnipro, and then we're going to have a big disaster in general for this region, in general for the Dnipro River. So by supporting this bill, I'd like us to take it up on the first reading and study it carefully, look at the ingredients that can be complemented today, and to complement here, except for nuclear installations, other places where there are nuclear wastes today to make sure that they are also taken into account by this law for further funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u64	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine. To prepare the Hare, the one that Ivan Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The very title of the law — organizing matters related to nuclear safety for me — for a man who has linked his fate for more than 50 years with the peaceful use of nuclear energy sounds like music. I want to say that the main reason for all the nuclear accidents and disasters is in the vast majority of cases related to the so-called human factor, including the tragedy that affected Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, which is the accident at the Chernobyl AES, which is primarily related to the human factor. Although the government commission that worked for us in Ukraine in its time, it stated otherwise and came to a different conclusion than was determined in the conclusion of MAGATE and in the conclusion of that government commission that was in the Soviet Union. Now, there's been a lot of research at the Hidden site, and the Hidden experts, and it's been published repeatedly in the press in Ukraine, and they say that the human factor and the beginning and development of the CHAES accident was still significant. So what I want to say is that complex technology and technology systems that work in nuclear energy are not self-inflicted, as sometimes attributed to the Soviet Academy of Alexander, the definition of atomic reactors that he designed, are super-complicated systems that operate and work under their separate laws. And that's where scientists, scientists and experts, not people of any other professions, have to work. What happened the day before the CHAES accident? The use of atomic rectors from Minsedmash was transferred to Minpalevenergo. And this disgraceful practice, when they work and run this complex industry, not experts, not scientists, but any other managers, it should certainly be banned. So the law that we're considering with you has a partial attempt to make, somehow sort out these complex and important problems. And, of course, it should be supported in the first reading. And I want to say the last words. But we should not try to transfer the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u66	Thank you. Rabbit, please. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u67	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. The bill provides for the establishment of an operational organization by an operator of a financial reserve with the aim of providing financial security for activities from termination and removal from the operation of a nuclear installation. Although the bill itself is widely referred to as: "Consolidation of matters related to nuclear safety." I mean, I think, first of all, put the name and what's in this bill. Because the provisions of this bill are mainly aimed at ensuring nuclear safety on the financial side. So this is essentially about the congregations that are proposed in this bill. Among other things, it introduces a new type of congregation — the so - called compulsory congregations. Although everyone knows that the Ukrainian Bill on the Tax System clearly defines what these congregations are and how they are doing. And if these congregations are not provided for by this law, they are not to be paid. Thus, in the second reading of this bill, it is necessary to correct this inadequacy. The other one. Article eight of the project states that the size of the accounts of the operator’s operating organization for a special account is established and approved by an authority authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This situation is contrary to the requirements of current legislation, particularly the tax system, which states that rates, tax mechanisms and congregations -- this refers to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So once again, we need to improve this bill. We must not let the important management of these processes out of the Supreme Council. Third thing to say. It's not exactly normal here to open a special account in banks. Therefore, this special account is not in line with article 7 of the Ukrainian law on payment systems and remittances from Ukraine. So in this direction, we have to improve this bill. But in general it must be said that there is a problem of guaranteeing and ensuring nuclear safety. And we're very good that we're starting to touch this problem, but here I would also like to support the proposal of the national deputy, Mr. Shibk, in that it's not just about nuclear installations, it's about waste that we're going to have as a result of the use of nuclear energy. So we need to take a closer look at this problem. So I propose in the first reading that we adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Carmazine. None. Then we'll determine. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ordering of Nuclear Safety Issues. Registration number 2142. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Vote. [[12:29:17]] For 244 Thank you. The law was adopted as a basis. The draft Law on the Order of Organizing and Conducting Peace and Action in Ukraine is under consideration. We have two bills here. Bill No. 5242 of Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko reports. Please, Gennady Josephovich. Three minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A bill on how to organize peace operations and actions in Ukraine is being tabled for your consideration. I would like to point out that last year, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there were 60,000 actions in which 46 million Ukrainian citizens, 46 million, had taken part. And there is no legislation that regulates the conduct of such measures in Ukraine. The main feature of this bill, which is being submitted to your consideration, is that the organizers of peace measures in accordance with the Assembly Constitution, the demonstrations are of a reported nature, the organizers turn to the executive authorities and make them aware that appropriate action will take place. The representatives of the executive authorities are obliged to accept this message, to form it and to do everything possible to carry it out. Next. The list of peace operations and actions is expanding. We're entering a new term for "tackling." If less than 50 people are gathered, there is no need to inform the executive or local authorities. To ban conduct, to limit the conduct of peace, only a court can do so during a state of emergency. So this bill is so democratic, so liberal that it gives citizens of Ukraine the right to meet peacefully without weapons and carry out their actions. The known nature of the event’s organizers should be informed by the executive or local authorities three days before the event. We took the experience of other countries into account. This bill, I repeat, is democratic, liberal, meeting all the highest standards of the Council of Europe and other international organizations. I'd like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Have a seat, please. President's Bill, reports First Deputy Justice Minister Anatoly Pavlovich Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to say first of all that the draft Law "Congregations and Meetings, Tours and Demonstrations" submitted by the President of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine deals with issues that are primarily defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and are thus a legislative development of the right of citizens to peaceful assembly. I would also like to say that this bill regulates exclusively all forms of peaceful assembly called public action. That is, such as the congregations, the rallying, the marches, the demonstrations, the panting, as well as the blending of these forms. The bill is based on the principles of legality and voluntary participation. It regulates the organization of peaceful public action, both by the initiators and by the participants. It is based on the fact that it deals in detail with the issue of agitation, the sacrifices that can be made for peacemaking, and the gathering of signatures. It's also based on a project that you heard the first one today, on the reporting nature of public action. It also contains all the necessary guarantees against unjustified restrictions. In particular, when it comes to determining the location of public action, the reasons for the halting of swearing and the grounds for the restriction of the right to join forces. It is based entirely on the guarantees laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine. I would also like to say that he is very close to the draft law that you first followed. But the only thing that distinguishes them is to specify whether or not in a project of questions relating to the rights and obligations of the organizer, the rights and obligations of the participants, and the rights and obligations of those bodies responsible for ensuring that the arrangements are carried out. I would also like to say, in conclusion, that it fully meets all the international requirements that are being put forward to the appropriate measures and that it, if adopted, will be a major step in ensuring the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to peaceful assemblies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u72	Thank you, Anatoly Pavlovich, please sit down. The First Deputy Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Mikola Alexanderovich Schulga, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. We are discussing a very important bill that guarantees one of the fundamental human rights -- the right to peaceful assembly, the opportunity to express our view of the most important events in society and the state. Our committee has considered both the bills that have been presented here. And also before we discussed these two bills, we consulted very much with law enforcement organizations, with public organizations, because this applies to the widest population of Ukraine. And after we have discussed and taken note of all the thoughts that have been expressed in various ways, we come to the conclusion that the more appropriate is the bill that is proposed by the people's deputies. Indeed, these bills are close. And really, at first glance, the bill, which the President has presented, is pretty democratic. But that's the difference between a bill that's being passed by the people's deputies. The difference is that here our social practice is taken into account, here are some things that have already been taken into account in the process of implementing the right to rally, which have shown that it is precisely in these finesse, and then the right will be realized. Otherwise it may sink into gravity, administration, and this right will not be exercised. That's exactly what we think is more democratic is the law that is proposed by the people's deputies. In some places, I can say that it's more democratic in terms of the time-frames in which these measures are being carried out. It's more democratic in other positions. In particular, with regard to written positions related to action, marching, and so forth. Even though we do not deny that the individual articles in the bill submitted by the President are very good things, especially those relating to the consideration of complaints, the consideration of these cases in the courts in general. They can also be used in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is it understood? Are we going to vote without talking? Huh? Shall we talk? Well, let's talk. Then two for, two for. Puzakov, prepare Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u75	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Unfortunately, and, to our shame, the laws of the good ones in Ukraine are being followed only when they are to be observed by the people. And when it comes to the implementation of laws and the Constitution by the authorities, that is often the case with non-conscientific violations. A clear example of the violation of the Constitution in the field of human rights proclaimed by the Constitution is constantly observed in Kirovograd and, above all, in the City of Chigirin. The elected majority of voters, who had naively accepted his pre-election promises to improve the situation in the city, rightly addressed the social issues of the people, all began to do so exactly the opposite. The first action taken by the city was to unjustifiably raise the price of water - twice, it is the highest price in Ukraine. By doing so, he caused reasonable indignation on the part of the people, who had expressed a number of protests in front of the building. By showing cowardice, you will not say that the measures did not permit the people to go out with an explanation that caused even more outrage. As a result, the shares were held several times, but the result was the same. His refusal to go out with people was unjustifiably motivated by the fact that the protests were not taking place where he wished, despite the fact that the Constitution allowed shares to be held in any place that did not endanger the lives and health of the people. By the way, he avoids meeting with the voters and veterans of the city, which are traditionally held by the Veteran Club every month. In fear of meeting with the people, the City of Chigirin issued a decree under which protests against the High Council and the district administration are now prohibited. Places where protests can take place on the outskirts of the city, away from the eyes and ears of the administration. Exclusion is a clear violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. What rule of law and democracy can be referred to if human rights and the Constitution are violated in general and in a number of ways? Where is that democracy that the Soviet authorities fought for? This is the triumph of democracy in the city of Kirovograd, where democracy does not smell. Even President Kuchma himself admitted that. He admitted it, but he kept quiet about who was to blame and what to do. As always, it is limited to the finding of facts without taking any measures to change the situation in the regions of the country and to put an end to the rule of law, as the constitutional guarantee is. And for the law submitted by the President, we, the Communists, will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u76	Solomonine has the word to prepare the Phydenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I would like to point out right now that our faction and ourselves personally, we support the MP's Bill 5242 and we will vote first for it. But at the same time, I want to stress that this is just an attempt to improve bourgeois democracy in the legal field. What do I mean? Well, here, so it's all very beautiful out there -- 60,000 operations, 46 million people involved, and what's the point? Can't we use the definition of a famous biker, "A Vaska listens and eats"? That's the whole point of bourgeois democracy: you do and say what you want, and we'll do what's in our favor. But “out of the bad sheep at least the hairy kangaroos. ” Thus, even imperfect laws that try to do something to protect an ordinary person, a small Ukrainian, should be adopted. It's a good thing that there's still a reporting nature on those shares that have to take place in three days enough. That's true, because the power of all, even all those armed squads in the helmets, with the stakes, is no longer the national police, they're the mercenaries. They will use whatever the modern authorities say. And that's what you and I felt during the action "Get up, Ukraine!"when the tents created by the protestors at the Institute near the Bank were littered with these fighting forces. So the next question is, if you can say that a new term is in place, a new definition of caring is that up to 50 people take part in this action, and then you don't have to make any messages -- that's very good. But let's take you into account that there might be a couple of pickets in one place. A couple of pixels times 10 is already going to be a whole different number, and we have to take that into account when we work on the law. And finally. The only way to limit the action is through a court of law. Long live our bourgeois judgment, the most just judgment in the world! With the Omelchenka served, he'll limit anything. So I want to say that there should be a list of grounds in the law that will be the basis for the ban, and otherwise the court will drive us to where you and I haven't been chasing a calf. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u78	Yuri Petrovich, "let's live" or "let's not live" court? Please sit down. Prydenka, please. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u79	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Company, Volin. Ukraine's law on how to organize peace operations and actions is long overdue. Without such a law, there are different approaches: to the waywardness and volunteerism, as we know, and the rallying often takes place, mass action. At the same time, the law will develop the constitutional norm of direct action if it is adopted. Its basic positions are set out in democratic principles, of a reported nature. A list of peace operations and actions has been extended. All of this will certainly expand citizens’ rights to participate in peaceful action and actions, reducing significant human rights violations. Peace and action can take place anywhere at any hour of the hour. Action or action organizers can change the location and time of the event if they need it. The rights and responsibilities of the organizers of measures, executive authorities, law enforcement agencies, and so forth are defined. I mean, there are some moments, I'm talking about the MP's bill, and not the President's, there are some moments that seem useful and necessary. But in the second reading, you have to write out a clearer concept and terms. Especially the basic concept of "peaceful action." The observation to article 2 may, on my part, be: "including the right to use illegal symbolism during rallying and demonstrations," this is the norm. And during. There's another, let's say, in the next paragraph, the same "unlawful symbolism" goes on. What is the symbolism that is forbidden by law? What, we have some law that forbids this? Probably what needs to be done here, maybe something else. Anyway, I'd like to see some restrictions on symbolism, because, let's say, how can we look normally when we have certain political movements at a rally or a demonstration of a stylized fascist swastika, or, let's say, stylized SS standards and so on? These are things that obviously need to be predicted. To Article 3. The law on the organization of peace arrangements is based on the Constitution, laws, and international treaties approved by the Supreme Council. Why only international treaties? What about civil rights, political rights? What about the convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and all that? We have to predict this moment. A peaceful overlap of roads, railway tracks as a last resort. Like it or not, it often takes place in practice. And this moment has to be foreseen in the bill to be, let's say, adjusted. And if this is really done as a last resort, it's not considered a crime. Here, let's say you have to spell out the exact moment when the restraining order is imposed. Well, as a judge, we had a meeting in Lutsk that rejected the request of the newly appointed governor and the mayor of the city to ban the rally. How would the unconscionable be affected? So this is the moment I need to, I think, spell it out more clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u81	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. Among the authors of this bill is our colleague Ivan Vasilovich Spódarenko. The bill is most attractive. And in general, I would like to point out that the quality of drafting drafts by MPs is much greater, and most people see it today in this audience of Parliament and in society at all, rather than the President's bill today. So once again, we will vote in favour of Bill 5242. That's the subject at all. which is raised in this bill, first of all, certainly that we should guarantee the citizens of our Ukraine their constitutional rights, we should have the bill given, and it is so set out, allowing the citizens of Ukraine to exercise their right to rally, feast and other acts of a peaceful nature. But what I'd like to say is that here, before the second reading, we need to think about an article that regulates the authority of the local authorities to give permission or not to give permission or place. Usually these are places where most people are not present at all, usually in the neighborhood or in the stadiums that are not being used today, and they drive people away, please conduct your action. This should not be the case. We know that the center where a person can express his or her right to a rally or some kind of action is central to cities. So the local authorities are doing everything they can to keep these people away from the center, so that there are not many supporters of this action. This should not be the case. And I'd like to just get a call from Ivano-Franco. Once again, I turn from this rostrum to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Ban the Ministry of Defense from closing the garrison hospital. Do whatever it takes to treat veterans, military personnel, so that they don't be sent to neighbouring areas -- Lvivsk, or Chernivetsk -- to treat them. This is the only place where veterans can accept full medical care. They deserve it. We need to keep this garrison hospital out of Ivano-Frankivsky. Don't do this, Your Honor. Victor Fedorovich, protect the veterans, you have to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u82	Thank you. One minute from the vote. Mihovich, Taran and Kirilenko. Please, Mighovich's microphone. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. The currentity of this bill is undoubtedly acute. This proves the longstanding practice of social and political development in Ukraine. I would just like to add that this is about a bill of parliament in which not only we, its authors today, have participated, but also representatives of the Supreme Council of previous calls. So it's a collective work, it's a certified, sophisticated document. Secondly, as was highlighted here, it is more perfect than an alternative, Presidential one that appeared suddenly late. And thirdly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Presidential is too discredited. And to avoid narrowing down the rights of citizens, please support our MP. And finally, on the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority. It's biased, it's ordering, and so I'm asking you to take it critically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u84	Please, Taran, prepare Kirilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u85	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to say, dear fellows, that Mr. Rabbit. - The First Deputy Justice Minister misinformed all of us when he said both bills were close to content. They're completely out of line. Here are some specific articles. Article 7 in the Presidential means that the public service report is submitted by the organizers in ten days, i.e. the relevance of the action itself is lost. Next. In the MP's in three days. In government. Article 23. In public service, a court order may be refused and a long list of when. Even there, the flu epidemic can be organized and then banned. In the MP, it is clear that restrictions on peacemaking are only possible in the event of a state of emergency. Next. In the president's office, you can't do that when you're in the way of traffic, and so on. So the adoption of the President means the absolute establishment of a dictatorship in the legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u86	Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u87	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. My fellow Members, I personally believe that enough is also article 39 of the Constitution, which is the norm of direct action to ensure the right of citizens to rally. But if we vote on these bills, we need to know clearly that the bill proposed by the President is anti-democratic, dictatorial and authoritarian. This is essentially the agony of the regime when the President introduces such bills. And in general, from the 25 articles of the bill, 20 violate citizens' right to rally and make it very difficult. Moreover, any police officer during the course of the operation can stop this action because he thinks the organizers are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, which they are conducting. Moreover, the rally should not be held near the roads, near the courts. The duration of the rally cannot be more than five hours, and so forth. I'm not talking about the other limitations that are in place. Therefore, do not vote in favour of the Presidential Bill for all those who claim the right of our citizens to tell the truth about this authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the discussion of draft laws on order, organization and conduct of peace and action in Ukraine has been completed. I'll take the vote in the order in which I come. Bill number 5242 is put to the vote. Based on the base. [[12:56:30]] For 165 The decision is not taken. There is a bill based on 5242-2. Presidential. Please vote. [[12:56:57]] For 139 Also not supported. There is an offer to re-read both bills. Who's in favour, please vote. Again. I'm sorry. Okay. Let's see. We'll be on our way. For the re-reading of the parliamentary bill, 5242. [[12:57:37]] For 165 So much for 165. On re-reading 5242-2, Presidential. [[12:58:00]] For-136 Almost as much as it used to be. Now there's an offer for both of you to re-read. Vote. Both for rereading the first reading. [[12:58:25]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Dear colleagues, I'm very glad we have this mobilization, so listen, please. We've had about a year's legislation to provide organizational and legal conditions for special protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. The committee asks to receive it in the first reading. No objections? Please vote on Bill 2333. [[12:59:12]] For 346 Thank you. The bill was adopted in the first reading. I'd like you to prepare for the second Samolik task force. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on the issues under discussion - the Draft Decision on the Status and Perspectives of Higher Education in Ukraine, Bill 5555. Vote. [[12:59:49]] For 319 It's been decided. We need to adopt a Parliamentary Hearing Regulation, ” the 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Look to the future." Please vote in general. [[13:00:19]] For 278 Copy that. Dear colleagues, I have another request. Before we go to the Miscellaneous, we need to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the settlement of claims arising from the air crash that took place on the fourth of October 2001. Draft law 0181. Please be supportive. Yes, take off the vote, take off the vote. Yes, please, Mozik Alexander Fedorovich on the rostrum, Deputy Minister. What questions will we ask him? It's gonna be "Rizzle," it's gonna be "Rizzle." I'm going to keep going for 15 here and we're going to keep going for 15 differents. Please Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Fedorovich Motsik. Sign up for questions. Please explain. Give me five minutes. Alexiyuk. [[You don't have to. You'll only be asking questions.]] Alexiyuk, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u89	Please pass the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u90	Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u91	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear chairman, distinguished reporter. There is no doubt that this is a tragedy over the Black Sea, primarily for the families of those who died on board that plane. On the other hand, there must be a thorough analysis of how this tragedy took place, in order to really avoid similar problems in the future and to punish the perpetrators or perpetrators of this tragedy. As far as I am concerned, Ukraine did not have such a profound analysis of the causes that could have led to this catastrophe. How could you describe: do the conclusions of the commission that were made on the Ukrainian side, including the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council at the time by Eugene Marchuk, really answer because they were in the complex?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u92	Thank you. On October 4, 2001, you know, this disaster occurred. And according to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, an interdepartmental commission was formed on October 12, 2001 to investigate the causes of the Russian plane crash "TO-154M". This commission, based on objective information, ballistics expertise, modelling of possible versions of airplane injuries, additional electronic experiments, concluded that the tragedy resulted from the accidental damage of the aircraft by the Ukrainian rocket complex C-200, which was launched in a mixed manner during the course of the exercise. The impact is the result of a tragic and unpredictable coincidence. On the basis of the findings of the inter-ministerial commission to investigate the causes of the plane crash and at the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers, an inter-ministerial commission was established to regulate the issues arising from the disaster. And the purpose of this commission was to negotiate with Russia and Israel and to prepare the corresponding drafts of the agreement. Such drafts of the covenant were prepared, and the covenant with Israel was signed and ratified. Now we have a ratification of the agreement with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u93	Yes, please, Lechchenka, follow him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u94	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Alexander Fedorovich! Well, actually, we Communists support this deal. But Ukraine has suffered considerable damage. Can you at least tell whether the commission, or whether the government, was considering drawing someone to account or not? The point is that there is guilt, and it is primarily the bourgeois authority that has led our Armed Forces to such a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u95	Thank you for asking. Once again, I would like to highlight the conclusion of the commission that the missile strike was caused by a tragic coincidence, and so Ukraine pays compensation, not as a legal recognition, but as a result of humanitarian considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u96	Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u97	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the city of Dnipropetrovsk. I'd like to go to our audience because I know very well that Alexander Fedorovich cannot answer this question, but in order for the audience not to have the impression that an atmospheric disaster has occurred and our plane has landed, a more faithful Russian aircraft has fallen into this atmospheric disaster, it was still necessary, in my opinion, to support the need to fulfil our obligations, regardless of any authority that exists in our Ukraine, in order for the name to meet the reality. And that's the name you painted, Alexander Fedorovich, when you called it reasons. And you could write in the title "and if the plane's unwitting impression was with a Ukrainian rocket," then everyone would understand the result of what happened and who did it, and who should be responsible. And for future generations, it would also be necessary if they were to go to the archive, they would know that there was no air crash, and there was a catastrophe as a result of the neglect of the Ukrainian military during the course of their studies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u98	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the settlement of claims arising from the air crash that took place on 4 October 2001. Registration number 0181. [[13:07:22]] For 260 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, last time we started to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. Registration number 0184. There's all the reporters, because there wasn't. We have reasons. Vote? Vote. [[13:08:07]] For 252 Decision taken. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between the Government of Ukraine and the International Committee of the Red Cross on the Red Cross mission in Ukraine. [[MCCH]] [[Registration number 0180]] Please be supportive. [[13:08:39]] For 283 Ratified deal. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on the Protection of Secret Information in Defence. [[0186]] Please, Drizzany, deputy head of the Security Service. Sign up for questions. Ask them to sign up while Drizzany's on his way. Please explain. Three minutes. Tomenko, get Alexey ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u99	Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government on the protection of classified information in the field of defence is proposed. This agreement has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and it has been discussed previously on a profile committee. The objective of the agreement is to provide legal basis for the exchange of such classified information between the parties in the military-technical cooperation process under individual contracts and contracts to be entered into in this area. The agreement ensures a purely equitable partnership in the information exchange process, obliges the parties to take the necessary protection measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u100	Igor Fedorovich, I'm sorry, you've distracted me, too. I said that for three minutes we answered the question and gave the word to Tomenko and to prepare for Alexei. Please ask Tomenko. Get ready for Alexey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u101	Igor Fedorovich, we have practice. When the Ukrainian Security Service gives us, on behalf of the government, a secret information agreement that contains a series of terms, such as information with limited access, information not for publication and so forth. As you know, there are no such terms in the current legislation of Ukraine. There's a Cabinet decree that's trying to settle this. And we have a sad practice where, for example, the distribution of funds between regions -- the Cabinet of Ministers' decree was illegal. How do you propose and interpret here that we have differences between the legislation of the United States and Ukraine from the point of view of handling what is confidential, secret and secret information? How do we do this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u102	The thing is, the terms you called were actually in the actual legislation. They're in the State Secret Act, they're in those agreements with other countries on this issue that have already been ratified by the Supreme Council and thus become part of national legislation. So all of these terms are used. With regard to a specific agreement, terminology among other issues is the subject of negotiations and the subject of compromise between the two parties. What's the purpose here? We need to reconcile the terminology that exists in the negotiating process so that it is largely in line with the legislative requirements of both parties. In this case these requirements are met, they are met.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u103	Please, Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u104	Please give my word to my colleague Mironenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u105	Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u106	The distinguished rapporteur has already made it clear that Ukraine is fully complying with the requirements of the United States of America on many issues. This is also the sale of Ukrainian products to Iran and other States, which have damaged Ukraine's economy. It's also the introduction of troops into Iraq and so on. And it's all happening because there's been some lullaby negotiations with some of our officials with the United States. Why do you go to the fortification of these secret negotiations and the Minister of Defence, and the President, and so on, secret from the people. Why are you turning Ukraine into an even more colonial country? And you may well know that the United States never fulfils the treaty, and they only use it to force other States to implement those treaties and not to implement them. Why do you go to this agreement because it harms the interests of the people of Ukraine in many ways? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u107	In this case, there can be no question of holding any secret negotiations, since these negotiations were held in full compliance with the requirements of the International Agreements Act on the basis of decisions of the government that are neither secret nor of which everyone knew. This is the answer to your first question. As for the execution or non-fulfilment of a treaty State or another State, I have already said that the mechanism for the exchange of information laid down in this agreement provides for a completely equal partnership character. I can't agree with you that the American side doesn't make deals. I can give a lot of examples in another area, when it's because of contractual obligations in the field, for example, international legal aid, that we've been getting from the United States a lot of materials, including materials of process-proof value.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u108	Thank you, Igor Fedorovich. The Special Committee and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Directorates offer to support it. So I'm voting on a draft law on the ratification of an agreement between the Ukrainian government and the U.S. government on the protection of classified information in the field of defence. Registration number 0186. [[13:14:57]] For the 250. The deal's ratified. Dear colleagues, we have two more precisely such agreements: the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access Registration No. 0187. It's a professional committee. The Chief Science Expert is in favour. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:15:37]] For 283 The deal's ratified. From this series. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. The Special Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are offering to support it. Registration number 0191. Vote. [[13:16:14]] For 291 The deal's ratified. Dear colleagues, we're about to move on to "different." Please sign up. Please show me. It's a little bit of a fixer-upper, isn't it? Should we copy or not? You don't have to, all of it. Please show the National Deputies on the monitor. One hour. Nightshade, get ready for Anitchuk. Please, Mikolo Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u109	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, Labour Ukraine faction. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! At the end of the year, I received a request from this rostrum to the government about the unsatisfying functioning of the fire department. In the answer I received, it was all written that a draft decision had been implemented, but unfortunately, no changes had been made for the better. It is almost impossible to see changes for the better, especially at the low level — the village, the village, and the town. In my opinion, the situation in this regard is even getting a little worse. In my district, fires continue, people die, we lose material values. Ahead of the harvest. In most villages and small towns where the fire department used to function, the situation did not improve after they were transferred to municipal property. Let me give you an example. 160 constituency, Jumpi district, Sumstina, Svisa village, 8 grand. Population, Friendship - 6,000. The population, the fire parts on the castle for over a year. The local fire department, where technology, buildings, fire extinguishers, and local self - control are only transferred to rental rights. The question is, What are we waiting for, what are we hoping for? Fire safety in the countryside is a particular concern. Today, the number of units has been reduced by 2-3 times. Ready for the fire parts of the unit. There is not even an elementary telephone connection. Article 27 of the Fire Safety Act and the relevant local security decree stipulates that each organization should account for 0.1 percent of the basic and negotiable costs of the nation’s goal. What Is Real? No one has changed the laws, no one has paused, but there is no counting. Can a rural, rural budget today withstand such costs? The answer is no. Even with the great desire and activity of the local authorities, businesses, organizations, the local community to find 50 or 70 thousand. No, you can't. To my conviction and belief, colleagues in the Hard Ukraine faction, the cost of maintaining local fire protection should be related to the local budget expenditure taken into account in determining the amount of inter-budgetary transfers. In general, the painting is inconsolable. I'm not going to be dramatic again, but agree, and God is watching over you. I ask you to consider your statement as a repeat request, a parliamentary request to the government authorities for the organisation of the work of the rural proper services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u110	Yes, please, instead of Anitchuk Novak. Get ready for Pullibok instead of Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u111	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In September it is 100 years old from the birth of Mikola of the Island - Flame Patriot, author of the immortal novel “How Steel Was Fitted. ” Here, in this room, we have made a decree to define the Jubilee of our glorious countryman. I think that the writer’s name, which we have the right to be proud of to the full, which has become a symbol of courage and heroism around the world, does not require any special publicity. Today, in this regard, I would like to raise another problem. In June 1979, a writer’s museum was opened in Shepetovtsa, with the name Mikoli Ostrovsky. It was built by the whole country. Building costs came from Saturdays, personal savings from citizens, veterans, and youths. This was indeed a worldwide construction. Construction materials went from every corner of Ukraine, equipment was produced at the Berdich factory Progress, in Kiev's factories. Artema, Lenin Cows, Aviázavodi, Hmelnicka, Dnipropetrovska, Lviv. The artistic design of the building and the exhibition for interiors was carried out by 80 artists from various funds in Ukraine: architect Ignatenko, artists Kovalenko, Hydamak, and Scorpio found beautiful solutions to the building in the form of a burning torch representing the burning soul of the writer and his hero Korchagin. The museum gained universal recognition. In 1989, according to UNESCO's decision, it was listed in the International Catalogue of Museums of the World. That's how museums are known to people in 149 countries. Now he's in a pitiful state. In 1992, when more Soviet assimilations were exhausted, a complete breakdown began. A group of 40 people cut to the village, and the wages were paid once a quarter. But those who have remained have preserved this museum for us and for our children, and for this we should be truly grateful. But we're in critical condition: the building requires immediate capital repair, the cost of its maintenance, the building collapses, the loss of priceless exhibits. We have no right to lose the museum of world glory. The Mikola Ostrovsky Museum is a temple, a temple of honor and valour and heroism and patriotism. He has done much, and he can do much to bring up the most holy of our young people, to save them from total degradation. Doesn't Ukraine need real patriots today? Is it not necessary to urge the writer to live in such a way that it does not hurt for a purposeless period of time? Is it not painful for us to live for 12 years without purpose? I call on the Cabinet of Ministers to provide funds for the renovation of the museum, where the main arrangements for the celebration of the Jubilee will take place, where Ukraine will welcome guests from other countries where the holiday honors this glorious name. Please consider my statement as a request to Prime Minister Janukovich of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u112	Please, instead of Gabrieluk, Tuggnibok. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, allow you to read these letters, openly addressing the Karpati-Livov football team's veterans to all those who care about the further fate of Ukrainian football. "We, veterans of the Carpathian Football Club, gave much of their sports life to a favorite team with ancient football traditions and achievements. For us, football has always been not just the most massive and popular sport but, above all, a serious school of patriotic education and awareness of real values of life. It was in the traditions of love for our home club, for the land, for the countries we were raised, that we brought this love to our many cowards and sympathizers. But the situation today in Ukrainian football and the victim of the Carpathian football club, we have no moral right to remain silent. It's time to discover the real causes of Carpathian failure. Paradoxically, they're not just in the sports plane, they're also in the sociopolitical. We know that, and this has been repeatedly emphasized, that the Carpathian FC is an honest football player, ignoring the disgraceful system of bribes and bribes, deals with judges and opponents, which flourished in the splendor of national football. We appeal to all those who are not only concerned about the fate of the Karpati team, but also about all of Ukrainian football, with a strong request to stop the terrible judicial custodianship, which has long been in control of the Karpati team. Today, he may not be able to deny the existence of corruption in Ukrainian football. There's a lot of talk about this in the media and in the crazier community, and the president of the Surkis Football Federation in his many claims just declares the principles of fair play, and in fact, everything is the other way around. Now comes the point of harassing the Carpathian team. In the situation that has arisen, we are primarily addressing you, Mr. Surkiss and Safiulin, as leaders of Ukrainian football, with an urgent request to put an immediate end to the destructive policy that has been deliberately directed against the Karpati team in recent times. In the event that the situation does not change in principle, we will ask the management of the club to consider the relevant bodies of the UEFA and FIFA the issue of the current treatment of the Carpathian FK by the Ukrainian football authorities, as well as the possibility of the timely cessation of the performances of the Carpathian FK in the country's full league, including children's and boys' teams, and to study the possibility of participating in the championship in one of the neighbouring foreign countries: Poland, Hungary or Slovakia. With respect, veterans of the Karpati football team: Kulčicki, Bada, Rashihin, Susla, Fale, Filjav, Zubac, Jurčin, Revjak, Sauka, Rodin, Bezuvac, Krupej, Grychac, Lichov, Bondarenko, Kulisevic, Daneluk, Savilevich, Sirov." Dear colleagues, I want to tell you. Until then, because football really isn't just a sport, it's also a big policy, but it's the fascination of millions of cowards, all of us. But as long as we continue to have this trending system of leadership in our Ukrainian football, order will not go away. Never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u114	Please, it's Black. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u115	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I want to touch the acute and painful problem of rising gas prices. It must be admitted that the government has passed out the problem of rising gas prices. The increase in gas prices in Ukraine cannot be reduced until prices increase in the world market. To eliminate the disease, it must be influenced by its causes. The reasons for the increase in gas prices in Ukraine are the excessive openness of Ukraine's economy, its vulnerability to external change, its overdependence on Russia, on Russia's supply of oil. The reasons are the lack of diversification of the supply of oil in Ukraine, the monopolism in the Ukrainian oil market, the virtual lack of competition in the market and, of course, the conspiracy of oil companies. This set of reasons has led to an increase in prices in Ukraine. What should we do in this situation? In this situation, we need to diversify the supply of oil. And it's not just the current moment, it's the perspective. We've been talking about this for years now that we need to diversify the supply of oil, and virtually all oil comes from one country. There is a need to demonolyse the production and implementation of gasoline in Ukraine. This problem is also not being addressed by the government, and we have a negative effect on it. Russian companies working in the Ukrainian market need to increase their supply of petrol to the Ukrainian market and reduce their supply for export. In fact, the Russian capital privatized almost all the Ukrainian oil factories. The government should respond to this situation if we have already made such a mistake. Next. We need to control the quality of gasoline. There is a discrepancy between the quality of gasoline and the price of gasoline. Again, nothing has been done in this direction. And of course, we need to take measures to keep prices from rising. And finally, we need to create a national.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u116	Yes, have a seat, please. Melniczuk, get Manchulenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u117	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to listen to these examples. At the direction of the Head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz in a month, I was in the following regions where the villagers really addressed us with painful questions. The Lugansk district, Novopskovsky district, met people in villages: Tanyushovka, Rogovo, Kamyanka, Lubashovka, where some 6,000 hectares [6,000 ha] of land is not processed. Where the local head of the administration of Chernyavsky processes only those lands that he and his son rent. Farmers do not receive land rents for 3-4 years. Neither natural nor financial compensation seems to be available. His handouts at the minicar factory beat people up, fired 22 employees of the mini-carrying plant. Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Novomoskovsky district, Spaszke village. As a result of the decision of the District Court, the villagers were obliged to make a contract, and I already spoke about it, with a tenant who did not pay the rent. People hope that the authorities will do something to protect them, but nothing like the courts, and the prosecutor’s office is on the side of those who have money in their pockets today. Kyivstina, the Mironov region, the village of Zelenykiv, the magistrates of the region take seeds to the peasants, at least because the court takes sides in the protection of the peasants and acknowledges that the magistrates acted contrary to the law. The hotspots I went to meet at the central district hospital. In the last three years, the patient has not seen any meat or fish on their menu. What is this doing?Oh, my God! I'm talking to you. Chief Doctor, and go to Cherniveckin, Novoselicki district, and see how people eat, 5 or 6 g's. Meat is also available during the day, and fish are on the menu. Ivano-Frankishte, the military hospital shuts down why it's done, Cherkasy, Smiley district, Zaporozhye, Guliapil district are bullying people. There's no power, there's no order in this state, we have to change that power, and we have to do it in the fall of October 31st. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Manchulenko, prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u119	203 District, Cherniewec Region. Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear Leonide Danilovich, you're being approached by the people of the Cherniewec region, the Kismen district, the village of Mamaiowtsi, my constituents with such a question. Why did "our Ukraine" get most of it stayed in the minority? Because the Parliament, under the leadership of President Leonid Kuchma, has overturned this choice of people. The government has reworked everything by reducing pensions, wages, and our money by buying deputies, making a parliamentary majority. But for what was the election, huge money was spent. You, gentlemen, spit on this poor people because "the hungry doesn't understand." You have billions in banks, probably our savings in your pockets, and we don't have enough from retirement to retirement for bread. Don't bend the demands of our Ukraine. Don't pick people to talk about Victor Yashchenk, because the people see everything. In 12 years you have done nothing good under the Constitution. Now what are you going to do with constitutional reform? So no one can take you off the throne. You don't care how the people of Ukraine live. How many children, like orphans, are waiting for their parents from abroad, how many families have fallen apart, how many old people have been left alone to make a living abroad. Where are our factories, factories? They sold everything, and they took the money. God will not forgive you for such mistreatment. Janukovic promised to add a pension by 20-30 percent. Television, radio, press all over Ukraine said that the pension would be bigger and added four bracelets. Liars, where's your conscience? Janukovic promised to lower the price of bread. Where's his promise? But you don't think so, because you're not hungry or naked. You're just thinking about how to get rid of Victor Yushchenka and invent all sorts of plots against him. Because you know that Victor Yushchenko is an honest, conscientious, just, godly man who is needed in Ukraine. The people of Ukraine see everything and understand everything. Even though you think of the people as cattle. There's an end to everything. And we hope in God. With God we will prove power, and he will crush our oppressors. That is what the Bible says. Twenty-four signatures. Residents of the village of Mamayevts of the Kismen district of Cherniewec, my constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Grigorovich Lilia. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u121	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Honourable Chairman, Honorable National MPs, Honourable Voters of Ukraine. I'll allow myself to quote the preamble to our Constitution. Conscious of the responsibility of God, of his own conscience, of previous present and future generations. I, my dear friends, would like to say a word about the generations to come. With regard to responsibility for past generations, everyone feels this on his own conscience, including Parliament. Regarding their responsibilities to today’s generations, at least they have the opportunity to vote and express their position as citizens. But with regard to future children, our children, and those who are coming in the future, I would like to say a few words. Although it was the International Children's Day on June 1st, we have not been able in this Parliament to make a worthy decision that would protect at least the rights of Mukachevo children to have an honest and truly worthy local authority. Dear friends, I would like to publish the realities that today characterize the parameters of Ukrainian childhood, and they look something like this: we have another 47.5 million in Ukraine today. Population. We have over 7 million. Labour emigration. Of these 7 million. Labour emigration in forced labour emigration is more than 5 million Women, mothers, are on forced earnings in Italy, Greece, Portugal, Spain. And if the Ministry of Family and Youth today publishes how many carefree children there are in Ukraine -- 100 or 200,000 -- I'll tell them -- about 2 million. Dear friends, children today do not hear their mother’s cradle, no one leaves school, no looks, no mothers do not see their children’s graduation evenings and first bells, the basics of being a Ukrainian family are being destroyed. We have not seen such a precedent since the famine of the 20th century, such as the destruction of the Ukrainian family. Children’s rights are being violated. If you add that to it, that's over 400,000. People die every year, and in the first grade only 5-7 percent of healthy children in clean zones and 3-5 percent in dirty ones, it becomes clear that Ukrainian childhood today, that is, future generations of ours, are at risk. However, our children, and the Union of Ukraine, having held such an all-U.S. debate on the future, dream of a worthy Ukraine, of the opportunity to have an education and work in this country, dream of the opportunity to be proud of being Ukrainian. Thus, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood stresses the holding of an urgent Government Day or parliamentary hearing on the status of children in Ukraine, the protection of motherhood and childhood. Because in this way we must fulfill our constitutional parliamentary duty to future generations. It looks like 10 years from now, we're going to be 40 million. Save our children, national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Shurma. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u123	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Today, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am forced to draw your attention to the city of Alushta because of the actions of the city's Alustinian head Nechayev. I want to remind you of the history of this question. Following numerous appeals by members of the Alustin City Council to our faction about violations of the law by officials of the local authorities of the city of Alushta by the National Deputies, members of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine prepared a parliamentary request for the name of the Attorney General of Ukraine. [[united]] The request was announced at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on September 12, 2003. On the basis of a request from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, a check was carried out on the grounds of compliance with the valid legislation by the Alastinian city head Nechayev in the use of the land of the Alastinian territorial community. According to a report by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, there have been numerous violations of the law in the course of the transfer of property and land to a rental directly by the Austinian city head Nechayev, against which a criminal offence was committed on 9 October 2003 as foreseen in article 5 of the Criminal Code, is the acquisition and destruction of or possession of foreign property on a particularly large scale and part 2 of article 366 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. During the course of the trial in this case and in accordance with article 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Albanian city chief Nechayev was removed from office by decree of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Sadly, however, today it has been noted that in fact the removal of the city’s head from office did not take place. I would like to point out that on May 25, 2004, the address of the Attorney-General is addressed to the members of the Alustin City Council, which deals with the new facts of the violation of current legislation by Nechayev, particularly the circumstances of the decision-making at the 13th session of the 24th Austin City Council on the granting of the right to purchase the building of the central property corps of the Albatross sanatorium with limited responsibility of Cronos, which resulted in the purchase of the utility property at a reduced cost, which caused damage to the city budget of over 600 million dollars. The fact that members of the City Council have addressed the Attorney General’s Office directly is quite clear, since the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have not shown due principle in providing a legal assessment of the abuse of office as a city head. In this regard, and on the basis of my statement, I ask that you consider him as a reference to the Attorney General's Office to verify the legality of the actions of Nechayev's city head in resolving the issue of granting the right to ransom the building of the central building of the Albatros sanatorium with limited responsibility to the Crown. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Taras Blackwall. Prepare for Mishura Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u125	Mr. Chairman, your esteemed colleagues, your esteemed radio listeners! In recent times many claims have been made in Ukraine and fine, beautiful decrees and decrees have been made to protect freedom of speech, to protect the press. Unfortunately, all of us have repeatedly witnessed that these beautiful words have very little weight: they are not actually being fulfilled. Pressure on the press, pressure on independent media continues, and much more is being done. This pressure is particularly noticeable in regions. And I can give you an example of the Lviv newspaper. [[That's her name.]] Journalists simply wanted to do their work honestly, their duties. But ongoing trials, despite the fact that the newspaper gave its rostrum to representatives of all political powers, tried to be as objective as possible, led it almost to bankruptcy. When it became politically inconvenient to smother the media directly, when this was contrasted with all the official loud statements, a new methodology was chosen: severe pressure on advertisers, severe pressure on distribution organizations, and on the founders of such a publication. Today, against the main founders of the publication, which is in Ukraine, especially for the young generation, prominent persons, participants in the known famine, student hunger on the border in 1990-1991, Markian Ivyshin and Jaroslav Ruzhchin, has been brought to the final stage: to the discovery of criminal cases in which their actions, which were aimed at supporting Ukrainian culture, such as the "Listen Ukrainian" festival. Journalists, honest Ukrainian journalists, again, as in the early 1990s, as in the George Gongadze case, are pushing on the granite to stand up for their rights there on the New Year's Eve. In connection with this Sunday, a live newspaper campaign was held in Kiev against the National Society of Journalists, where journalists from a number of editions of Ukraine and the Lviv newspaper and Kiev editions, as far as I know, Ukraine Young People's Lands, Ukraine's Truth, will be preparing and publishing on the street, right on the sidewalks, and there will show that journalists are willing to do their job even if certain people in the government try to deprive them of their ability to do their job. And that's why I'm talking to the Chinese. Don't worry! If you ever want to hear the word of the truth again, come and support these people. Journalists. Show Your Solidarity! Come on Sunday and join the campaign. It's not political, it's purely journalistic solidarity. I also address the President and the Attorney General. I personally had to have both of you at the reception, keep this situation informed. You made promises that there would be maximum support. Regrettably, the situation of abuse of an independent publication became even worse. I ask everyone not to be indifferent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Mironenko. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u127	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The consideration of the bill in recent days shows that the criminal revolution in the country is continuing. A criminal revolution in the form of universal privatization of capitalism in our country. Everyone sees that the most profitable remaining public enterprises are placed under the privatization hatchet, and that works, that is, that is, open, cynical, that people are being robbed. Same. The same large enterprises that are now privatizing and making huge profits to the State budget are privatized despite protests by the factions of communists and other deputies who are trying to reflect the interests of the people in the Supreme Council. But the communists are less than 60 people out of 450 deputies, and naturally we cannot solve the legislative problems in this case. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today I have asked specific questions to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Kirke, from whom he has strayed. He didn't answer the first question. Order No. 312 concerning the re-routing of cash flows of seaports signed by it shall not be repealed. Why is it not overturned because the laws are broken? He did not answer that question. Second. This order leads to a reduction in the state of the seaports, in the Kerché seaport. It is estimated that employment will be reduced by a thousand. There's no answer. They explain that there will be no cuts. But how can an enterprise that lost 33 percent of its income keep its employees? So it's by reducing wages. In fact, we see the cynical looting of regions, the population of Ukraine is continuing, and it cannot be stopped without the cessation of the privatisation course. The Ministry of Transport, with the submission of the President of Ukraine and the oligarchs, who control both the Presidential Administration and the Government of Ukraine and the Supreme Council, are already asking about the privatization of Ukrainian ports, seaports, strategic sites. For what? In the name of the same, there is still a narrow layer of people who rule as supporters of capitalism. I therefore call on the people of Ukraine to finally draw a conclusion. We must return to the socialist path of development. Everything good from the past is better taken from the world, from Belarus, which is on the socialist path, from Sweden, and can only be done through presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Puzakov instead of Plutinski. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u129	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. An interesting thing, however, is the election in Ukraine's free and “democratic” country, where 2/3 of the country's working population consists of working cities and villages. However, 2/3 of the seats in the Supreme Council belong to representatives of large and medium-sized businesses, high-ranking officials. What's going on? Indeed, most of the country is made up of a city and a rural proletariat. And in power, over and over, the stakes, the bribes and the apherists. For by law in our society, everything is equal and there are no exceptions to electoral legislation for officials, bankers and oligarchs. Elections should be free, direct, equal and secret. What else do you think you should do? But the fact that the oligarchs are given no privileges from the law is unnecessary. Their primary privilege is money and power. At a time when the masses of workers are barely ending, they are forced to wage a daily grueling struggle for and fight for existence, simply not until politics, the oligarchs have all the necessary means, first, and secondly, education; thirdly, connections and knowledge of all the dirty moves, receptions; means and means of fighting for power. That is why workers, with very few exceptions, are practically not directly involved in electoral companies. The result of such participation is not difficult to predict in advance. For the working class, this is the real violence. The dictatorship of the exploitative minority over the majority of workers. This raises the question: where, when and under what laws are there only two candidates for the presidency in the upcoming election race? I don't think there have been conventions or conferences where these candidatures - Yanuković and Yushchenko - are being nominated. This is a gross violation of the electoral law. Who and where does he place these ratings? How many can you powder people's brains with the "strong" authority of Yushchenko and Yanukovich? [[& Tiles]] You'll know that these ratings have deprived many students of their studies at the institutes. Who works for Yushchenko? Of course, students work for money. The signatures for Yushchenko's candidature have even begun to be collected in Kirovograd. 30 bracelets are paid for, hungry students drop out of school just to raise ratings. This is how images are created. I address you, dear compatriots, who hear me, don't believe this shit. We, the communists, call upon the true patriots of our country not to believe these ratings and their sweet promises, or this may be a great tragedy for Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Kalinczuk, prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Clothing, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, prominent radio listeners, the faction of Ukraine’s Agrarian Party is concerned about the recent situation in the oil market. The last day of government in the Supreme Council, where there has been a principle, has been a constructive conversation about the future fate of the village and the agrarian sector of the economy, and we are once again forced to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers, the public to the problems that "snow on the head" have come to the shoulders of peasants. The immoderate economic ambitions of oil, for which social interests simply do not exist, undermine all the previous work of the legislative and executive authorities to support the agricultural sector of the economy. So this year, as a result of the long-standing negotiations between farmers and the government from the state budget to support agriculture, some 2.5 billion grams were allocated. Clearly, this is not enough to solve all the painful problems. However, the funds gradually went to the village, and many villagers believed in the ability to pay to stabilize the situation as soon as possible. But it did not happen, as it was supposed, that someone did not like our country’s stability and tranquillity. According to previous estimates, the current increase in petrol and agricultural diesel will cost about $1 billion. And in most cases, if not before sowing, such action is done before harvesting. The main argument, as always, is the rise in oil prices in Russia and in world markets. But Russia's prices for gasoline and fuel are completely stable for several months now, and they're not rising. What, then, remains to be done by peasants in such circumstances so that they do not work to the detriment of their lives? Raising prices for agricultural products to the world’s level will make it impossible for the population to access, even the most needed foods — milk, meat, and bread. It should be said to the Council that the government has made a number of decisions in recent days to resolve the problem. It is planned to allocate 200,000 tons of diesel for agriculture at 1.7 gallons per litre. However, it takes a long time to implement this decision. He's gone. Clothing and a number of other southern Ukraine regions begin harvesting within a week. In these circumstances, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who already has experience in finding compromises with oil-processing enterprises, to intervene immediately, not to delay tomorrow. All participants in the domestic oil market should be reminded of the measures taken by the State in their time to support them. And don't force them to do it one more time to stimulate the import of petrol and diesel from other countries. The faction has prepared an appropriate bill on the introduction of the tax conditions of imports into Ukraine of light petroleum products for the APC. We are counting on understanding in solving this problem and on the part of the government and the national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u132	Thank you. Kostinuk, please. Get ready for Samowa's Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u133	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. As of January 15, this year, an open letter was published to Ukrainian singers, musicians, authors, entrepreneurs of the show business about the catastrophic situation in the audiovisual space of Ukraine. But so far there is no response of authority to it. And even the recent Istanbul success of Ukraine has not become a broad cover for the government’s inaction. I immediately ask that my speech be formulated as a parliamentary request. And this letter says that domestic show business is artificially placed in conditions where quality music can't meet its consumer, just with the Ukrainian consumer. A particularly acute and painful situation in Ukraine’s audiovisual space is a catastrophic one. Experts estimate that more than 90 percent of the airtime is filled with foreign music and creative products for virtually all radio speakers throughout Ukraine. The same ratios are also seen in the presentation of native music products by television channels that speak in our country. From the air virtually disappeared the native music of all styles and musical directions, from the traditional estration and popular to the self-existence of the Ukrainian year. Ukraine's audiovisual space actually serves the economy of foreign show business. Artificially blocking access to all Ukrainian television and radio broadcasting, native music leads to extremely uneven and unfavourable starting conditions for Ukrainian artists in creating original phonograms, further concert and gastronal activities in their home territories, and the implementation of legally produced audio products in various audio recordings. As a result, the Ukrainian state loses not only in culture but also in the economy, since the budget does not have the necessary solid tax revenues. At the same time, the times of building and developing Ukrainian independence, authors, composers, musicians, entrepreneurs have taken serious steps to establish show business in their own country. Hundreds of domestic producers and technicians are working. Hundreds of new native songs and songs have been created and are being performed. Hundreds of radio albums have been recorded and released in different styles of native music. I would like to point out that our professionals do not need, unlike creative youths, to introduce additional benefits. The problem is in another plane -- it's about systematic conscious failure, ignoring the very active legislation of Ukraine -- the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on television and radio talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u134	Yes, have a seat, please. Shershun has the word. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. You all know the phrase, "Who owns the information, who owns the world." The source of information — that is, where we get it — plays a key role in this chain. So with regard to electronic sources in our state, I mean television, radio talk, they're defined by a virtually one organ -- that's the National Council, that's the structure, given, practically, the monopolistic right to distribute television and radio frequencies to young people. It would seem that in the very name of the organization, its primary purpose — the national significance of the nation — is for the people. In fact, for individuals, their selection is impossible to grasp by logic. A fresh example: One of the radio stations in the Plain region was held for days. It was attended by several claimants. Among them are two powerful local radio producers, one national, the other commercial. Both suggested concepts of Ukrainian radio with Ukrainian programs and music. Both have serious manufacturing bases, sufficient creative potential. And as a result, the right to speak is devoted to a small-scale media structure that has not even been able to come to defend its own concept. Maybe I knew the result in advance. Journalists said that the members of the Nakrad had made decisions by dulling their eyes because they were ashamed. It is a shame to see what this organization does to regional speakers, including national speakers. There's no better situation on TV. State regional channels, sorry for that word, put into such an airy hole when no one sees them. [[I won't pick another word.]] Who, then, needs a government order that pays the budget for which local networks can be built? I personally share the opinion of the head of the National Committee of Chihuahua that Nakrad is lobbying for someone’s private interests. I think we need to put an end to this and consider the relevance of a structure like Nacrad, which is a threat to the country's information security. I believe that a government authority, such as the information department in the licensing section, should care for the state authority, so should the state committee. Please consider my statement a request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Belarus instead of Alexandrovsky and Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! More than 800 citizens of Ukraine in the Cagarlic region of the village of Halchi, Voronovka, Zicrachi, Rasavka have asked me to restore justice to the gasification of these God - forgotten villages, which are located in deep ditches and in the winter snow, without the ability to deliver fuel, and people are suffering from cold. At my suggestion and with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, there was a letter. These gasification projects were included in the 800 million-dollar investment subsidy plan. But because he offered these projects to the people and from the opposition, the Cabinet of Ministers ruled out these villages -- and the pipe, which had already been brought to the village of Halchi, lies the third year in the field, rustling in the swamp. This is not an example of a national approach -- this is an example of political discrimination not only by national MPs but also by Ukrainian citizens. I asked the Prime Minister again and again after receiving the signatures of the citizens of these villages. There is no answer so far, although the critical term has long passed. If the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister consider it possible not to respond to the Supreme Council's request, then I will have to contact the International Commission on Human Rights and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been discussing two fundamental questions with you about the state budget. I recently visited the Netherlands -- and I was told there that the annual income of the Rotterdam port is over 40 billion euros, and the income part of the budget of the great European state of Ukraine is $10 billion and it seems to be frozen forever. The Supreme Council, which has the sole control function, needs to understand why the income part of Ukraine's budget does not move at such a triumphant rate of growth in gross domestic product. And here's the problem of privatization. And it will be a disgrace to the Supreme Council if we allow this shameful privatization in the beneficial, personal interests of the family of one of the leaders of the Crevice State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u138	Please, Buttercup. Instead of Spack School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u139	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Today, I want to take a second look at the disgraceful allocation by the government of Ukraine of the budget for the implementation of investment projects in the regions. In accordance with Ukraine’s 2004 State Budget Act, it is implemented solely on the basis of the proposal of Ukrainian national deputies. In this regard, I submitted my budget proposals to the Supreme Council Committee on 21 October last year on the issue of budgeting in the Chernigiv region regarding the granting of subsidies from the State Budget to locals for the construction of the following four objects: the gasification of the village of Gorobiyuk of the Srebrenica region, the village of Medinika Chernigowski, the school in Srebnjanski and the water supply of the town of Semenyovka. When I learned that the objects were not involved, I had to ask the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for a request. His reply of April 6, this year refers to the fact that this law actually provides for 400 million dollars and is distributed at the request of deputies, but it said that there was an offer of 210 million dollars. In this regard, I have asked the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, where I said that once, yes, it is likely that at least one third of the proposals made should be taken into account in a proportional principle. He received an answer where he explained everything and concluded that this list of expenses for the objects appointed in the address was not foreseen. Similarly, the government has also responded to the proposals of almost all of my comrades to the Communist Party of Ukraine. Conclusion. The bourgeois government of Yanukovič, and this time he has used the budget to repay the national deputies of Ukraine with the majority and some others who actively and loyally support it in the implementation of anti-national policies for the benefit of criminal and oligarchic clans. Thus, their cheap authority is strengthened by those who almost always vote against the interests of their constituents. It's a disgrace to such a government and a disgrace to such national MPs. The Communists, in spite of the shameful acts of power, have always stood and stood and stood in the defense of the workers’ interns. No one can ever buy us anything. And I'll tell the simple electorate the following. Dear voters! You have the only way out of this year's presidential election of a Communist candidate. Other candidates will continue this policy of bullying the common working people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, instead of Spock School. Prepare for Gurenk Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear radio listeners! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I would like, first of all, to highlight the most painful, probably right now, the question, beyond the end of the session, is the conclusion of the proposals that were planned to be made to the amending budget. First of all, I'm talking about social construction. So the practice that was proposed, it basically looked pretty good to me. People's Marjorie deputies or later were allocated that this year all national MPs come up with proposals, I emphasize, to the Ministry of Finance on the distribution of funds for capital construction, social costs and so on. This year, for the first time in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, bribes were offered to national MPs. What was the bribe? If you support the draft budget, you get the money for your districts if you don't support it. So you won't get the money. And, unfortunately, when he was here speaking from this rostrum of Azarov, he was lying. I don't want to use different definitions, the word "false." He'd fake the facts, he'd say I gave the seventh number. I want to tell you that I have here a list of documents that have been submitted for reconciliation and recommendation, and a national MP in 121th constituency, and a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, which also included in its list of proposals objects located in my 121st constituency. And to emphasize that what was read about the seventh number, these were apps that in principle would count, not count, not matter. The bottom line is, 300 grand. He's not gonna get the Mostic district, it's my constituency. It's a border area, it's a shame when from the Mostique gas plant goes to Poland, it provides Poland with gas, and it can't supply its area with gas. Because Azarov has allocated these funds to other people’s deputies in other areas, completely disregarding the fact that this is not a matter for the national MP, not for his political position, but for the people, for the electorate, who suffer from the fact that Azarov is handing out funds to the right and to the left. Because who's making the budget? What Azarov is molding him, he's just distributing. It forms a budget for workers who work with their own money and blood to get a copy of the tax collection to form a budget. So, once again, I emphasize, my well-respected voters, that you don't have the money to build a school, there's not going to be a construction school in the city, there's not going to be any remodeled schools in the Sambir district, there's not going to be the largest city in Ukraine that doesn't have any clean-up buildings, there's going to be a Sambor that doesn't have the funds, because that's what Mikola Azarov wanted. You know that this crime has a name and a name, namely, Azarov, the name of Michael. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u142	The word is Rodionov, to be prepared instead of Matthew, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, today there has been an appeal to Ukrainian citizens by a representative of the Communist faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the All-U.S. Women Workers' Union "For the Future of the Children of Ukraine" of Catherine Samojlik. Take part in a protest campaign called "Power, Return Our Children From Iraq", which is scheduled to be held on June 22 this year at 11 o'clock in the area of Independence in Kiev. I personally, as one of the leaders of the All-U.S. Public Organization, the intelligence of Ukraine for socialism, support this action, and also call on all citizens, regardless of political views, to take part in the campaign to defend the most expensive one in Ukraine, to protect its children. Unfortunately, today we have to say that children in Ukraine are getting smaller and smaller every year. And the reason for that is that this is the wrong way to capitalize Ukraine, which it chose almost 15 years ago. And for almost 15 years he has walked through the graves of the dead and on the backs of the still alive, leading them to the grave. All these years, Communists have warned that these negative consequences cannot be avoided in the path of capitalization. The only way out is to change the current political course in Ukraine's development into a way to create and consolidate social justice in society, with which the communists are not without reason identified with socialism, from Ukraine's return to the socialist path of Ukraine's development. With this program in the next presidential election, there will probably be a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine from left-wing power. There's no way it's going to be a representative of the Communists. The aim is to build a society of social justice, to create a socialist society, and to distinguish the Communist program from that of other political forces. What happens if you don't change the way Ukraine's development is to leave it on the capitalist tracks, and I would give the answer by rephrasing the famous words of Saltykov-Schedrin from the famous story of "The History of One City," and it sounds something like that. "And Ukraine will ride in a dead tarantase." For those of you who forgot what a dead tarantas is, I'll remind you that it's a catafalk. It is known that this transport leads only to the cemetery. And believe us, the Communists don't want the people of Ukraine to end up here for that reason. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u144	Please have Solomon’s word. Prepare for Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. On June 22 on the sad sixty-third anniversary of Hitler's treacherous attack on our Motherland of the USSR, when the Great Homeland War began, in Kiev will be called upon by the All-Ukrainian Union of Women Workers "For the Future of the Children of Ukraine" to take political action for the return of our soldiers from Iraq. We urge every concerned person to take part in it. Motherland, motherland, sacred words. Who now mentions that on the battle red flags under which our grandparents went, these sacred words were drawn: "For our Soviet Fatherland." Who remembers now how our parents and grandfathers, kneeling before the battle red flag, swore allegiance to the Socialist Fatherland. What kind of Motherland do we have now, and what kind of Motherland do we have now? The fatherland is bourgeois, the fatherland is capitalist. So now that some of the Presidential Bolsheviks or the bourgeois-nationalist opposition are mentioned in this Chamber about the Motherland and the Motherland, he does not deliberately declare that he is an ardent supporter of the bourgeois Fatherland and defender of the Capitalist Motherland. I declare it. Or there is. That is why I, Yuri Solomatin, a Soviet man and a Soviet Communist, declare that our flag was, is, and will remain red forever! Our Motherland is Soviet, our Motherland is socialist! I call on every honest worker to face the red flag of all workers, before and under him, together to march and conquer the bourgeois power and capitalist system in Ukraine, to remove the occupation regime that we have in our fifth column of the world’s capital! May the second edition of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution take place! And on June 22, when women urge us to march for the deliverance of our children, our soldiers from Iraq, we men must support and bring to their knees and to their hands our great victory to their hearts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u146	Yes, Taran, are you giving a speech to Stake? You're handing it over? Please, Taran. Prepare Mihowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u147	Victor Terrence, block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, our citizens of Ukraine! Today, in Ukraine, the so - called gasoline crisis continues to turn. And the reasons here are different. One reason is that Russia raised prices for crude oil. And so the question is, if we're talking about a single economic space today, why did the price of gasoline rise by 40 percent in Ukraine as Russia rose by five percent, Kazakhstan by seven percent, Belarus by 10. Despite the fact that the Yanukovich government has already made a generous contribution of 2.7 million. The money to build the so-called only economic space. But let's be honest. Let's be honest and say it's far away and not just in Russia. The main thing is in our government. Because there are a lot of questions when we talk about the gas crisis in Ukraine, and we're saying that the sources of the petrol crisis are the same as the sources of the so-called grain crisis in the same government of Yanukovic, because the grain crisis was last year and it hit Ukraine painfully. Because there are many questions to the government of Yanukovich. First of all, why is there no oil pipeline of the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline that could be a stabilizing factor in the Ukrainian oil market to date. Secondly, why is the Ukrainian state structure "Ukranafta" passed on to commercial structures, and once again, does the government have no real importance to order in the fuel market in Ukraine? Finally, why are 90 percent of Ukrainian oil factories actually branches of Russian factories today? And so on and so forth. I mean, the gas crisis in this situation, with the Yanukovich government, it was going to explode anyway, and it broke out. Sooner or later, this would happen again. But why? Why the idleness and shortsightedness of the Yanukovich government should be primarily the responsibility of the common people, especially in this economic situation that is taking place today, since prices have already risen. They went up spontaneously. Immediately, there is a chain reaction to petrol prices. And to this day we have the increase in vegetables, the increase in meat, the increase in services, and, of course, these prices will never fall, let us be honest. And this is in the situation where pensioners have only been added a few pennies after the collapse of the pension reform, which is in the situation where there are huge payroll debts, and above all in the Janukovich region of Donetsk, the biggest wage debt. And so on. And that is why our faction demands that the current government of Yanukovic be categorically resigned as a government that has demonstrated its complete inactivity and full inability to respond adequately to the situations that arise in Ukraine. And on the other hand, we explicitly demand that we take a whole set of social protection measures to protect the worst.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Well, considering that we've done a very fruitful job today, I'm going to let everyone who's signed up. Please, Mihovich, get ready for Orzhachovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear fellow countrymen, today and in previous times from this important rostrum, I have repeatedly had to talk about the unbearable political and socio-economic situation that has taken place in our region. It pains me to say that once a unique and self-sustaining country, the youngest in Soviet and then so-called independent Ukraine, is losing one by one the positions it has gained over the decades in the socialist era. From this rostrum, unfortunately, the Carpathians, and especially thanks to Mukachev, have become synonymous with the "New Ukrainian Palermo," that is, the areas where corruption flourishes, political saviour, moral cynicism and dirty technologies that have been most prominently shown this year in the re-election of the Martyr. And the matter, as I just said today, has come to the point that the governor of the region, the so-called Social-Democratic United Party, has done nothing to subdue my fellow countrymen, the industrious, the wise, the patient, to serve his narrow-group interests. And it would seem that from this rostrum a lot of true words were said about what should be done in this region, and especially on May 12, when the heads of law enforcement authorities were informed of what was going on in Zakartat when appropriate decisions were made in the fight. By the way, I want to say that they're very well accepted by the public. And, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, many of them, especially. The Russian sub-carpathians supported the Supreme Council's decree on the matter under consideration, including the release of the head of the Rizak district administration from office. But it doesn't take time, and everything stays the same. The ruling authorities argue that positive changes are taking place in the land. But what positive changes are there when an open - minded analysis shows that, compared to 1990, only 19 percent of the major production facilities today are in the area. Industrial production -- only 7 per cent, agriculture -- only 25, investment -- 4.6 per cent, volume of subcontracting -- 14 per cent, retail 14 and so on. And I'm not talking about social problems anymore. At the unemployment rate, at the level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u150	Orzhachowski. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u151	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, voters! The last two weeks of the parliamentary rostrum did not come up with three problems initiated by communists and socialists. This is the need for the withdrawal of the Ukrainian contingent from Iraq, the illegal privatization of the Civoristal plant and the sad government regulations of 509 and 510. I want to make a statement on these regulations, because they have to determine how subsidies from the State Budget are to be granted to local budgets for investment projects and disaster prevention measures. Prime Minister Janukovic and his team made it clear that the budget was not a law for them, but a means of creating comfort for their political and economic goals. By abuse of power, the central executives ignored a fair distribution of government funds to meet the needs of the population. 800 million dollars were given to the majority. The electoral procession, including the Hersonians, the Marjorie MPs from the opposition of the left parties. As a result of the illegal actions of top - level officials, Hersonianism has been out of state support for the second time in the last year. This was the first time that the President and the government refused to see the reality of 2003 in the APC region and today when the Tavrian region was left out of financial attention. As a result of this action, the division of deputies and districts into their own and foreign districts, the areas of Calancechi, Alexandria, Gornostivsky, Chaplinsky, and others received no copies. It is likely that Kiev does not know that people live there, and they need to live, drink, and live in warmth. Thus, there will be no water in Novokiyivka, in the villages of the Grand Alexander, Gornostievka, no gasification, no repairs to the Borisla pedagogical dormitory, no expense for the construction of the oncodipenser. Appreciating the actions of the authorities, the obvious task of the leader of the Party of Regions, to strengthen its political power, to eliminate others, to build a rich life for one region at the expense of others. What about, Victor Fedorovich, with good manners, the word of a civil servant, which is also understood? Because the objects that I proposed to finance agreed with the local authorities, you are confirmed in writing that you intend to finance them. While in the area, people were indignant. They demand that the April rulings be lifted, that the investment costs be allocated in a fair manner. Otherwise, Ukrainian citizens need to know that there is an existing system of power, an old team in the President’s election cannot be voted on, for the entire world will laugh, and the people of Hersonskin will remain in the eyes of prime ministers, presidents. Without the support of voters, Hersonian deputies, the government may want the veterans to return to the watery times.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. Stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear voters of Ukraine! I'm addressing you on the 25th of May 2004, in the 21st hour news on the UT-1 channel, there was a civil court hearing in Kiev about the closure of the newspaper "Silly News." This allowed the dissemination of information of this content: "In the court, first of all, they were allowed to speak to the people's deputies. George Carmazin, Valentina Semenyuk, and John Boki, as well as Constantine Sitnik, came with an editorial commission. He surpassed Carmazin, made a sensational statement that genetic expertise was necessary, saying that her absence as a Ukrainian insulted him." The above message is made with a brutal twist of the content of my speech. In an appeal court to defend the newspaper "Silly News", which we will not allow anyone to be shut down, condemning the burning factor of international hostility, I denied the existence of anti-Semitism in Ukraine, prided myself on the fact that in Ukraine, unlike other countries, there is no genetic expertise and the content of my speech clearly for all those present in the hall, it was obvious that I was offended by the fact that Ukrainian citizens might be subject to such expertise abroad. My performance was fixed by technical means. I think the reference to my speech to the distortion of its meaning to me and my constituents is extremely offensive. I also find absolutely irresponsible of the officials of the national television company in distributing this and that information without prior examination, which is an attempt to compromise the head of the nationalist party, and I appreciate the above-mentioned disclosure of my speech in such a way that it does not correspond to reality as a deliberate attempt to stir up hostility among the fraternal nations, to undermine the authority of the public political actor, to humiliate, to dishonor my honour and dignity. In fact, after I got acquainted with what UT-1 is doing, after this coverage, according to the Rural News, I have the impression that this is not the main Ukrainian, but the main Israeli television channel. From the easy hand of UT-1 and also the citizen of Israel Rabinovich, who has similar nonsense noses and on the air of "5 channels", our ambassador to our country of Ukraine in Israel was summoned by Mr. Nathan Szjaransky, second minister in the affairs of Jerusalem, etc. Is our Ukrainian Ministry silent, or is it already in Israel’s service? I don't know, I think a dirty lie will make sense to everyone. I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council today on another matter. When will the end of my appeal of April 8 be eliminated from the illegal financing of the so-called illegal secretariat of the so-called majority? Billionaires still receive their equipment, technology, transportation at the expense of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u154	Please, Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u155	Ivan Stojko, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Honorable colleagues are MPs, distinguished radio listeners! On Sunday, we're going to celebrate a journalist's festival, with which I want to welcome the entire Ukrainian journalism. But are we good with freedom of speech? Of course not. The Ukrainian authorities, led by the President, are part of the world’s first five free - word usurpers. Prisoners who already understand without a translation on the entire planet have become commonplace in our country. Censorship and control over the media have taught Ukrainians to read between lines, as it was before the reconstruction of the hills. Regrettably, officials today run journalism. The pressures, beatings, and killings of journalists are advancing. Let's think about the events around the Village News, the Young Ukraine, the Ukrainian Truth Internet, the Continent Radio, the Freedom Radio, a series of publications in Crimea, Odessa, Mikolayev, Lviv and other areas of Ukraine that are under pressure. So I would now like to express my support for the courageous journalists in the fight for truth and freedom of speech. Do not give in to the pressures of today’s authority; be a real expression of the people’s will, their spiritual freedom. Because it is you who must be the source of truth, honesty, and loyalty to the interests of the State. Equalize the innocents of Chernobyl, Gongadze, Alexandrova. Don't lose your conscience, don't sell yourself, especially now, before the President's election, but expose lies, dirt, corruption and home invasion. Is it possible to observe calmly what the Kuchma regime has done in 10 years? How can we look at the devastated villages, the millions who are unemployed, the millions who are already dead and forced to disperse around the world, the lowest wages and pensions in Europe? And it's a great ruin created by bushmistress at a time when there was neither natural disaster nor war. Politicians and journalists alike have no right to stand apart from all these problems at a time when the onslaught of freedom of speech comes at a time when the regime's servants are trying to destroy the independent publications mentioned above. The rulers of the pen must fulfill their sacred duty, bring the truth and only the truth to the people. It's really gonna be heroism. Then there will be fewer Coronians in the country, and there will be more of those like Hya Gongadze. So I love you, respected journalists, firmness, faith in positive change, faith in the best future of Ukraine. I am sure that the last honest and true word will follow you. Hold on, don't give up. And the victory will come soon. Good luck to you, dear journalistic fraternity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-04-m0.u156	By breaking the Rules, we have given the opportunity to speak to all those who have been recorded. We're not doing this anymore. I would like to inform you on a case-by-case basis, because we are concluding a meeting on June 8th, at 10 a.m., that there will be a plenary meeting with the Government of Ukraine to discuss compliance with legislation on the development of scientific and technological potential and innovation activities in Ukraine and the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere. At 15 hours, parliamentary hearings will begin on the preservation and purpose of socio-cultural objects in the process of changing the forms and ownership of the dependents. On June 9th, at 2 p.m., there will be a parliamentary hearing of the Women's Landing in Ukraine. Realisms and perspectives." On June 10 and 11, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. The next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on June 15. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
