ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:08]] A 251 national MP was registered in the session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is Boris Illich's birthday. Let us welcome Boris Illich, and we wish him good health and great success. Dear colleagues, the microphone, please turn Boris Illich on. It's a motive. After 14 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I am deeply grateful for this attention to my humble character. But what it is, there's no basic option. It will be announced at 1:00 at the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, where I will show you for 3-5 minutes so that you do not mind drinking for my health.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies, on October 24, we celebrate the United Nations Day. The arrangements for the United Nations Day are already traditional in the calendar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, a United Nations information fair organized by a United Nations representative in Ukraine opened up in the third - floor towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to invite you to take a look at the exhibits on this subject in your free time. Dear colleagues, according to your commission, I will inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on October 21, 2004. As predicted, all 23 issues of the timetable, namely 39 bills and six draft regulations, were discussed at the meeting according to schedule. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws have been passed in general, including the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on timely payment of wages and the Law on Sources of Financing for Social Expenses and Associated Administrative Expenses. 15 bills were adopted in the first reading, in particular the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enjoyment by persons with disabilities of the right to employment. Three bills amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, the draft laws supplementing the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance and amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[on aid to privatised enterprises]] One bill is aimed at redrafting. 12 Bills Rejected. The consideration of a bill has been postponed. Five judgements were passed, and 28 judges were elected. A vote on one draft order has been postponed. One protocol decision has been made. Bondarenko from the driving order and we're working on it. Well, in order of course. There may be some criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u4	Dear friends, I have a request to you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to the presidency, to all present: let us send written information to the media on behalf of the Supreme Council, as well as to those who continue to glean every day, to disgrace the Supreme Council, including Stepan Havrish, who lies on all channels about Parliament's ineffective work. And I also think that in copies, if you want to send Shufrych and the Road Eyes the materials, let them take a look. The Supreme Council works, works more effectively than ever. And this is the credit shared by all those who are here and by the leadership of the Supreme Council and the deputies who are working fairly and honestly on the very important laws for Ukraine. And those who wanted to block the work of the Supreme Council, Ukraine’s supreme legislative body, are just now being depraved by our activities. I think we're going to continue to do the same effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u5	Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I'd like to ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. In addition, the distinguished national MPs were instructed by the Standing Committee to give an opinion on the application that had been made, as well as by the Committee on Legal Policy. Yesterday we heard the conclusions and decisions of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Today, if you do not object, Vasil Onopenko will provide the relevant information after the request has been made. Is there no objection? None. Then I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. YEUGENA JOLJAKA to the President of Ukraine on the facts of the violation by the Attorney-General of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and its coverage of the inactivity of the Prosecutor's Office in the Kyiv region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:01]] For-126 Query support is not available. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine on the abolition of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine Orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On compensation payments to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster” of 26 July 1996, which violates the rights of the Chernobylites established by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Chernobyl and the pension legislation of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:49]] For-119 Request not supported. Victor TERENA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, for the provision of assistance in the embalgo of the village of Pavlish, the Motherland of the renowned Ukrainian teacher, Vasil Sukhomlinska. Victor TEREN to the Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco to assist in repairing the village of Zibkova Kyrovograd. Mr. Aleksandra VALKOVA to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the law enforcement of the activities of Moses, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the abuse of power, the excess of power, the obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, which was expressed in the illegal external monitoring of Ukraine's national deputy Volkov and the involvement of those responsible. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the incompatibility of parliamentary activities in connection with the appointment of a separate national deputy. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the acquisition of medical supplies at the Lower Orenda sanatorium in Yalta. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the inclusion of traffic lights prior to the arrival of the houses of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine only at the time of entry and exit and their territory of cars, the unlocking of the streets of Bank, Lutheran and Cotsubin and compensation by the US Embassy for the damage caused by Ukraine from blocking the streets of Kotsubinski. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's MP and failure to respond to a parliamentary request from 30 June 2004 on the allocation of funds for the restoration of the coast, the clearance of the river's rudder in the Tachiv region of the Zakarpat region. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction of the cost of feeding children in areas affected by the Chernobyl AES accident in the Volinsk region. Jaroslav KENJOR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the principles of the activities of the branches of Moscow University in the cities of Chernigov and Sevastopol. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the gasification of the premises of the Hustian Territorial Organization of the Blind Ukrainian Association. Mr. Ivan TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless disconnection of the telephone of the National Deputy National Counsellor. MICIVILLE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Viennese District State Administration, regarding the formal treatment of the allocation of funds to improve the functioning of the sociocultural sphere of the village of Ochitkov in the Oratov region of Winniecki. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the completion of the gasification of villages and villages in the Kalanchi region of the Herson region. Paul TAVRISKANA and John ZAITZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the destruction of the National Reserve “Hersones Tavrish” through the allocation of land in the security zone of the reserve under housing and industrial construction by the local authorities of the city of Sevastopol. Valery PASTOR AND Igor STAŠA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of educational and manufacturing workshops of higher vocational school No.34 of Stry Lvivsk. Mr Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kyiv region under the leadership of Anatolia Voloschuk. Mr. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the payment of arrears on wages at a subordinate enterprise. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the re-profiling of the Hurtozík Medučišite complex in the city of Yagotin Kyiv County under the temporary placement of refugees and the allocation of funds to complete its construction. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the incomprehensible deployment of the Russian base of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine and the illegal presence of all navigational security in Crimea in the hands of the command of the Russian Federation's Black Sea fleet. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the violation of the labour legislation - the non-payment of salaries to employees of the “Prolysek” agro-company. MICHELLA POLAND’S prime minister for the loss of a special contingent of the Ukrainian Armed Forces who are participating in peacekeeping missions. Mr Juriya KRUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt to the teachers of Ishmaelsk. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection and restoration of the constitutional rights of workers of the agricultural production cooperative Agro-firm Zora in the village of Sullivanka in the region of Kiev. [[SIROUBOK, DOROGUNSOV, CHELNOKOV]] Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the evaluation of the activities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. [[SAVISKI, GLADI, KASIANOV]] Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the responsibility of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for raising prices for individual goods. Georgia BUYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Pshonka, on the abuse of office and the unification of certain employees of the Kyiv Public Prosecutor's Office with corrupt groups of citizens and the Office for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev of the People's and Other Principles. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Foreign Service Administration, the Head of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority for the implementation of adequate measures in response to discriminatory measures against citizens and officials of the Ukrainian authorities, established by officials of the U.S. government authorities and the formation of travel visas for U.S. citizens only after they have been fingerprinted from them, their admission to the premises of the Ukrainian authorities only after they have given their passports or passports in exchange for temporary visas and personal searches with metal detectors The Lebedev Valley to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the introduction of European Environmental Standards on Taxation of Vehicle Owners. SERGY DOROMUNZOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for housing construction. Anatolya NALVAYKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Deputy Head of State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Head of State Tax Administration in Kiev regarding the abuse of official positions by officers of the police investigation in Kiev. SERGY DOROMUNZOVA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of allocations for the construction of the clinic of the Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the elimination of injustice in making compensatory payments to citizens who do not have identity numbers for religious reasons. Mr Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine on the use of response measures in connection with illegal actions by state authorities and officials, which may lead to the termination of the “5 channel” television channel. Sergei TEROJOCHINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in a criminal offence involving the beating of a citizen of Legeysuk by a member of the district’s internal affairs department in Kiev. Vasil ZUSKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the prevention of illegal harassment against the criminal liability of the Odessa people and the illegal actions of the knowledge and investigation officials in order to maintain the order of the offence and to investigate the criminal case. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure to provide medical attention to the staff of the Prilytsky City Hospital to the patient, which led to his death. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the criminal case against the Head of the Chernigian Business Union. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on bringing responsibility to the parties involved in the so-called assassination of the Prime Minister of Ukraine Alexander CRONOVOLENKA and Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the return of the debt on salary to former employees of the State-owned company Selidowogil and the mines “1/3 Novogradovska” from the village of Miropyl of the Krasnopol Region of Suma. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the return of the debt on wages to the workers of the sugar plant of the village of Kirilovka in the district of Velikopisarov. Sergei MATIJENKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delay and criminal negligence in the investigation of a criminal case involving the death of the inhabitants of Mariupol Alexandri Chernozosinska. Mr. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory response of the Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine to a question of the legality and justification of the actions of the District Court of Chernigiv. Vasil ZUSHKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in the investigation of the murder of a citizen of Marchuk by the District Court of Odessa. Mr Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, Constitutional Rights of Citizens and Exceeding Powers of the Police Department of the Ministry of Interior in the Chernigiv region. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the illegality of arresting a citizen of Valery Kravchenk. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the General Prosecutor's Office, the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting, the Central Electoral Commission on the Legality of the Distribution of Advertising Roles, which are broadcast by national broadcasters free of charge and contain a hidden pre-election campaign by a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. YOURY OF THE ORBACCO AND VALLERY OF THE LABEDOVO to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Prevention of Organized Crime and Corruption, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the legislative provision of law enforcement activities regarding the participation of law enforcement officials of the Kharkiv region in preventing the conduct of pre-election measures by Victor Yashchenk. Stéphane BULBI to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure by the State Executive Service of the District Department of Justice of the Dnipropetrov region of the Koselštín District Court of Poltava. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the solution of problems of acquiring Ukrainian citizenship and obtaining new passports. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the award of a bus to the Romanian School of Public Education No. 1 of the Žitomir Region. SLABENKA to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the conduct of compensation payments to liberated military personnel. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of assistance in carrying out the operation of residents of the Winnick region. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the inaction of officials of the Kirovograd District Department of the Ministry of Interior in the Kirovgrad region. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the decision to finance the renovation of the Truskavetsky Central Military Clinic. Ms. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to execute a court’s decision on the payment of monetary compensation to illegally dismissed citizens. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister of Emergency Situations for the Disengagement of Firearms by Occupational Parts of the Surprising, Romanovsky, Lubar district of the Žitomir region. SLABENKA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for illegal power cuts in the village of Zaboltnica in the region of Volinsk. Mr. Stephen BULBY to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the inaction of the State Executive Service of the Mashiv District Department of Justice of the Poltavian Region after the execution of the court’s decision. Vladimir NOVAK to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to execute the court's decision to make compensation payments for heating and electricity to teachers of Letician Training and Production Unit No. 1 of the hops region. YURIA SIRKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for bringing to justice the head of the Passport Table of the Coral District of Mikolayeva, Major of the Berdnikov Police, in connection with the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Minister of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine regarding the situation that arose with the rental of rations in the village of Zburiyevka in the region of Hersson. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the interference of the Deputy Head of the State Duma of the Russian Federation with the internal affairs of Ukraine. ROMAN IMMORTAL AND MICHAEL CATERINCHUKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the unsatisfying response of the heads of the district administrations of justice to parliamentary appeals. EUGEN HIERNIKA to the Minister of Science and Education of Ukraine for the delay in the payment of scholarships to students of the first year of the University of Prikarpatia. Leonida SERGYENKA to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination of the activities of the charity “Fatherhood Without Orphans” of the city of Dnipropetrovska. Igora TARASJUKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ternopil State Administration for the transfer to the local authorities of Ternopil Terebovya in the area of the thermal and water supply and accommodation facilities of the military. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija Samoplavski to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the provision of information programmes for public educational institutions, computerization of rural schools in Brezniwski, Kostopilski, Sarne district of the Plain region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the non-qualified conduct of criminal investigations into the criminal case of the Regional and Kirovgrad Courts of Appeal. Ms. KASJANOVA to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the case of the destruction of the land of the Shiroki Correctional Colony of the Ukrainian Department of State on Execution of Punishment. Mr. Vladimir MASTRISHINA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the review of the civil case for a summons to the State Committee of Ukraine for the protection of work on renewal under the exceptional circumstances of Kowalevski. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Head of the State Committee on Forestry of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status of the Yaltin Forest Conservation Fund and on the implementation of the Ukrainian President's mandate on this issue. Vassil Gladys to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to warn of the emergence of a new monopoly in the Kharkiv region. Petra CIBENKA to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the irregular requirements of the Fund’s organs for the provision of additional documents by civil servants. To the Head of the Herson State Administration for the promotion and assistance of the Herson College of Name Eugene Malek in the implementation of his programs. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the abuse of employees of the Kyiv Public Prosecutor’s Office, corrupt groups of citizens, and the Office for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev on family and other grounds. Paul KILCHANA to the Head of the Kyiv State Administration for the illegal removal of land for a new construction in the territory of the security zone of the National Kyiv-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve. Igora TARASJUKA to the Head of Ternopil’s State Administration for the appeal of members of the Ternopil Arch for the Terebovljen Interstate Home of the Elderly. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for bringing to justice the responsibility of the Deputy State Duma of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Girinovski, on the fact that he violated the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. TO THE Head of the Regional Government’s Office for the Prevention of the Concealment of a Socially Important Program for the Rehabilitation of Persons Who Deprived of Narcotics and Alcoholic Addiction. Vladimir NOVAK to the Head of the Hmeljna District State Administration for not allowing the transfer of the premises of the Hmeljna District Centre for the scientific and technical creativity of the student youth to the benefit fund. Thus, honourable colleagues, 82 parliamentary inquiries were made. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 30, Communist faction - 19, "Ukrainian Regions" - 5, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party - 1, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Trudova Ukraine" - 2, National Agrarian Party - 3, Socialist Party - 7, Timoshenko Block - 7, NDP and Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, "Centre" - 2, Postfaction - 2. Just one more time, 82. If we judge by factions who asked for MPs, we have the Supreme Council working in its entirety. By procedure, please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. We are proud that today, together with us, we have excellent intellectuals, who are highly valued not only in Ukraine but far beyond it. We sincerely congratulated today on the birthday of our glorious poet Boris Ilyich Olijnyak. Yesterday, a remarkable, lovable woman, loved by all who touched her productions of cinema and on the theatre stage, was awarded the honorary title of the folk artist of the Russian Federation by the folk artist of Ukraine, Valeria Gavrilovne. Let us warmly congratulate Valerie Gavrylovna on her appreciation and wish her further creative success. Good day, Valeria Gabrielovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen. Well, please log in from the procedure for three minutes. Please sign up. And prepare Vasile Ononepenka for the performance. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Mikhailo Kosov. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, if we sign up right now, we're gonna lose our turn. We can't. Let's do the post-commencement procedure, shall we? Because now we're getting mixed up. After the application. He has the word Vasil Onopenko, and then Michael Kosov will speak. Well, that's when we said it. 30 minutes to the Nationals. For the head of the committee, I don't think we're going to limit time, but I'd like to ask briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, to carry out the commission of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, to review the statement announced on October 19 of this year by the national deputy of Ukraine, Gabriel Stepan Bogdanović, on behalf of the leaders of eight parliamentary groups and factions on the illegality of decisions that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now taking on, the committee has examined the existence of legal grounds, the basis of this statement, to what effect are we paying attention to the individual aspects of the issue? First of all, the meaningful fulfillment of the situation mentioned in the statement depends solely on the political plane and on the objective processes that Parliament is constantly experiencing in connection with the transformation of the majority. A similar situation has already been considered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which concluded that the events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 21 and February 1st 2000 did not violate the principles of the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the cessation of constitutional implementation in the case of the recognition of unconstitutional acts adopted at the meeting of part of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the Ukrainian House of 27 June 2000. In the motivational part of the adoption, the court found that such trials had political moral significance and were part of the political process. Thus, the problem that has been solved lies solely in the political plane and does not have a legal or legal aspect. Secondly, the issue of the legitimacy of the process, the exercise by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of its powers, including its decisions, was addressed by the body of constitutional jurisdiction in various aspects of the problem. Just mention the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since July 7, 1998 in the case of the constitutional submission of the President of Ukraine on the procedure for voting and re-examination of the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the decision of the same court of October 17, 2002 in the case concerning the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court noted that according to the spirit and content of the Constitution of Ukraine, the presence of such a number of parliamentarians as is sufficient for the decision to be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the court's position, Parliament's mandate is realized by the joint activity of the Ukrainian national deputies at the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during its session. Instead, he does not participate in a part of the parliamentary corps in the plenary session, as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine stated in its decision of October 17, 2002 in the matter of the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, endangers the legitimacy of the decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is empowered to adopt laws and implement other, constitutionally defined powers, provided that it is present at its plenary meetings at the time of the vote, no less than the number of Ukrainian national deputies, which according to the Constitution of Ukraine is necessary for the adoption of the relevant decision, in particular, the Court noted that the laws, regulations and other acts that were adopted during the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were supported by a majority of the votes established by its constitutional composition. Thus, the national legal doctrine affirms the presumption of legitimacy in Parliament’s decisions. The opposite can only be observed by an authority authorized by the Basic Law of Ukraine to perform constitutional control functions. Then, any assumptions as to the illegality of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as approved by the majority of Parliament's constitutional composition, are notoriously illegal and legally incorrect. As the Constitutional Court of Ukraine pointed out, in part 4 of the October 17, 2002, decision on the participation of Ukrainian national deputies in the decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the proposed decision was voted on by the Constitution of Ukraine, the number of Ukrainian national deputies was deemed to have been adopted, regardless of how many national deputies did not vote. And the failure of a number of Ukrainian national deputies to vote is not part of the decision-making process of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From the above, the only objective conclusion is that the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are legitimate, in favour of which the majority of parliaments voted by the Basic Law of Ukraine, regardless of how many national deputies did not vote. Thus, failure to vote on a number of Ukrainian national MPs, which is less than the number of parliamentary parliaments envisaged by the Constitution of Ukraine, given the right to jointly implement Parliament's authority, cannot be an obstacle to the adoption of decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is important to stress that the legitimacy of the decisions adopted by Parliament depends on compliance with a number of procedural requirements, which are, firstly, necessary for the adoption of parliamentary acts at a joint meeting of the national MPs, which is to take place in the form of a plenary session. Second, the meeting should take place during a constitutionally defined period, i.e. a session. An analysis of the practice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's adoption of decisions during September-June 2004 shows that Parliament's compliance with all the conditions that ensure the legitimacy of decision-making by the higher legislative body of the State, in particular plenary meetings, took place at a fixed time, in a designated place and under established procedure. Thirdly, the question of whether there are grounds for opening-closing, resolving matters of the organization of Parliament's work, including voting, is the competence of the chairman of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The mandate to open a plenary session shall be exercised by the chairman of the Parliament in accordance with article 3.1.6 of the Supreme Council Regulation, which provides that the meeting shall be opened and held if the number of deputies present is necessary for the decision-making process. The number of parliamentarians is determined according to the results of an electronic name registration. Thus, the presiding officer has the authority to decide for himself whether to comply with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules governing the legitimacy of the plenary session, including the issue of quorum. With regard to the postponement of the plenary meetings from October 19 to 22, this year to December 7 to 10 this year, it should be noted that all the proposals made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies regarding the organization of Parliament’s work, including the holding of plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are decided in accordance with article 2.4. 4 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by introducing a draft relevant regulation and article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In harmony with article 2.4. 4 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules on the approved agenda for the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be dealt with in a different manner than the one envisaged in this sequence, delay, change or be excluded from the agenda by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u9	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich, for this thorough legal analysis. Dear colleagues! Let us move on to the speeches made by the national deputies. We've got 30 minutes. Mikhail Kosov, please. Get ready for Chickanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u10	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, according to the faction's decision, please pass on a statement to our fearless lawyer, Volodymyr Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u11	Volodymyr Stretovic. Get ready for Chickanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u12	Thank you. A statement by the "Our Ukraine" faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the preparation of executive power for the collapse of the elections on October 31st, 2004. "Dear fellow countrymen! Dear Ukrainian people! On October 31st of this year, each of us and society as a whole have the opportunity provided by the Constitution of Ukraine to resolve their future destiny through the election of the new President of Ukraine. However, according to the events of the last days, the information that comes to us from reliable sources from the patriots of Ukraine has bankrupted the criminal executing authority in the person of the President's Administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport, while facilitating the tax police for the total inaction of the S.B.U. and the Attorney General's Office is preparing to use armed force against their own people. Having failed to drop explosives into offices and cars, scattering spikes under bus wheels with students, placing DAI blocks on roads like in military operations, I'm showing you a document that says we already have blockages in the DAI Department of Internal Affairs of the Zakartat region, which means we're already preparing for a state of emergency. As soon as information came that the government had called members of the minority, there were 140 of them, and reported that the authorities were ready to introduce a state of emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be done by putting portraits of the great runners of the candidate from the Janukovich Authority on the glass windows of the shops. The people in mobile groups, dressed in the form of "Yes," naming themselves from Yashchenk, will be smashing these statues in all of Ukraine's populated locations and thus the authorities will be forced to introduce an extraordinary state. Don't give in to provocation! On October 23, the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, scheduled by the People's Forces Coalition, pulled together and placed under Kiev a special division of Berkut from all parts of Ukraine and the city of Sevastopol. They will carry out their mission and return to Kiev again on October 29 with powerful vouchers and will be delivered here secretly in closed trucks and civilian buses. 5,000 members of the internal forces under General Poptov’s command have already been placed in nearby rest and accommodation bases in the village of Novopetrovci, in the town of Vishnov, Boyarca, Borovarah, and Irpen. On October 31st, their numbers should increase threefold and, having been given the arms of electric shocks and rubber rods and world grenades, our children and grandchildren in shape will be directed by shortsighted generals against unarmed people. In addition, students from the Academy of State Tax Services at the University of Internal Affairs, located on the Street of Collectorny, Kiev, will be involved in the efforts to curb the opposition. There will be no exception to the events mentioned and the new old leadership of the Ministry of Defense. Today, Russian troops, Wimpel and Alpha, are pushing our army units into their own people. According to the Defence Minister, any order of the Commander-in-Chief will be carried out, although the Constitution of Ukraine obliges everyone not to obey criminal orders. The faction "Our Ukraine" cannot believe in the reality of the evil intentions of power, but the systematicity of the messages, their verification has shown that high-level subjects are willing to use firearms, including shooting at people. Otherwise, why deliver the weapons to the quarters of the troops and place them in the premises of the CTC, which will soon be announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u13	He's giving up his speech? Where's Philenko? None. Excuse me, fellow officers. Is Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk there? Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky, if he refuses, please speak out of your own words. But let's follow the Rules so I don't get blamed. Are you giving up your speech? No, it's not. So, please, we're done here. Sergey Chickanov, please. Dear colleagues, I don't want to make any accusations. There are no other people. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Ponomarenko Grigori Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u15	Gregory Ponomarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. As a member of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council for the Monitoring of Legislation on the Elections of the President of Ukraine, as an authorized representative of President Simonek Petar Mikolaiovich on the Central Electoral Commission, he is forced to declare that another channel of falsification of the President's election is being opened. It's about creating polling stations abroad, especially in the Russian Federation. Tomorrow, the Central Election Commission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is scheduled to decide on the establishment of 420 more branches in an exceptional case in the territory of the Russian Federation. A total of 123 polling stations have been officially created today in the foreign states. By the way, in 1999, there were 116,000 voters on the presidential election lists at 92 polling stations abroad, with only 24,000 voters voting. Today, these additional offices in the Russian Federation are expected on the lists of 800,000 voters at a time when there were no more than 5,000 votes in the Russian Federation during 1998, 2002. And on March 1st, only 20,000 voters were in the Consular Account in Russia. Already today, in Kharkiv, Sumski, Lugansk, Donetsk regions, there are voters who are ready to go and vote to Russia on the day of the vote. By the way, there is no control over the election, because the presidential candidates are not given the opportunity to put their representatives on the electoral boards, nor will there be observers. I'm asking the Central Election Commission not to consider creating additional areas within the Russian Federation. We also refer to the leadership of the Russian Federation not to create a pretext for falsifying the election of the President of Ukraine. Please consider my speech an official parliamentary request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u17	Yes. Philenka, Polychuk. None. Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. None. Yes, there is. Mikhailo Polishchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u18	Commie faction, Rodionov. Please pass the word to Novak Vladimir Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u19	Vladimir Novak, please. Prepare Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u20	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. Dear colleagues, if we believe our statistics, this year Ukraine has gathered nearly 40 million tons of grains. It would seem that the market should be stable and predictable. But all of us are witnessing a sharp rise in prices for basic foods. Especially meat, meat, and eggs. The journey is significant, from 18 to 20 bracelets to 30 to 35 bracelets per kilogram of meat. All government claims that there is no objective basis, no economic basis for price fluctuations, that everything is done to bring prices back to the previous level has proved to be a clean lie. It is clear to everyone that all the assurances and measures taken by the government have not led to or will not lead to price stability. They are growing at a higher rate and not just for food. See what happens to fuel prices: Their growth will lead to a significant increase in our lives. We're creating the visibility of the price struggle, and we're putting out the deliberate reasons for their growth. And the truth lies on the surface. We Communists, our leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, spoke of it repeatedly. The reason for the increase in food prices is because of the reform of the agricultural sector. We warned the people of Ukraine that the pseudoreforms in the countryside would lead to poverty. That's what happened. The national acquisition of Ukraine, a collective herd of cattle, has been reduced by 20 million. heads in the 91st year to three million in 2004, i.e. fell 6.4 times. What kind of plague? What was the plague that got him killed? The name of this plague is rural reform. All stolen, looted, taken abroad. What else can be explained, though, is that the head of the top has decreased considerably in the private sector, that is, in the population, and continues to decline. In the last year alone, compared to the past, cattle have decreased by 15 percent, pigs by 25. During the nine months of 2004, Ukraine’s State Department reports that farmers sold 13 percent less cattle and 20 percent less pigs than during the same period last year. I mean, the meat just didn't grow. And there's nothing you can do. Reforms, which seemed to be of great benefit, returned to Ukraine and to the people with great evil. You and I are reaping the fruits of mindless bush reforms in the countryside. In the last 13 years, all that has been created for decades has been looted and looted by the work of the entire nation. The village and Ukraine can still be saved. Only the authority that thinks of its people can do this. People, make the right choice! I address you, honourable voters, honourable people of Ukraine! Vote for Peter Simonenka!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u21	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please. To prepare Volodymyr Matthew, Valentina Matthews, I'm sorry, Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews. Yeah, it's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u22	Please give the floor to the Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u23	Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u24	Dear voters! Is it true that the authorities are preparing false elections? Yes, that's true. Is it true that there are fictitious lists of voters and substantial people in your areas? Yes, that's true. Is it true that someone can use your name for dishonest voting? Yes, that's true. You're told the President is already aware that your opinion is worthless in this election. Don't believe it. The one you want to see the President wins, the one you choose, because it's up to you. Come, vote so there will be no fictitious elections. Check if you are on the voter list? You have the right to consult the voters' list in the electoral board's office, and to check the correctness of adding information about yourself, as well as any person -- relatives, neighbors, acquaintances. Check your data for yourself and tell your neighbors, loved ones, and acquaintances. Your name, surname, and father’s address, birthday, should be listed on the list of voters without error, or you will not receive a ballot. If you find that you are not included in the voter list, the incorrect inclusion of voters, i.e. with errors, we have to file a written application for incorrect voter lists on that election panel. You also have to file an application for errors in your acquaintances, relatives, and add copies of passports and death certificates to them if these people have already died. Within three days, but not later than one day before the start of the vote, the commission is obliged to decide on your complaint and make changes to the voters ’ lists. This is the only way we citizens have to vote with you and exercise your constitutional right to choose power. On the electoral boards there are representatives from the candidates for Presidents Simonenka, Moroz, Kinach, Yushchenka. Please come and communicate with them, and they will help you to make all necessary formalities so that your vote will be decisive during the election. I'd like to remind you that it's up to us, and it's up to us. Thus, 23 numbers on the 13 - hour Independence Course are being held by the coalition power of the nation against false elections. And I would ask that the citizens of Ukraine who are interested in this information come to this rally and hear Yushchenk tell you and tell other national MPs and that team who are behind Yushchenko how to prevent false elections. We're going to win because we're millions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u25	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Vladimir Tikhović Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u27	Vladimir Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u28	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Each of us in our lives has foresaw, felt, and endured a great deal, so we must act wisely at any time in any situation. But today our people do not have that wisdom. There's an angry and black presidential race ending, which means the bitter experience of the past years that Ukrainians need to keep their pockets open. There's nothing good about it, of course, nobody wants to put it -- the other way around, even though our pensioners deny it, because "we got a pension allowance." I'm sorry, it's a bribe before the election, but you're wise people, you've lived a few decades, you've learned a lot, unless life has taught you to distinguish black from white. Well, figure out what you can buy for the 100 bucks that you dropped off, because high - price food is not available. Commodities of the first need, too. What tariffs for utilities! What is the cost of public transportation?Oh, my God! And you're saying that the authorities are solving your problems? It should decide them, not translate decisions on your wallets alone. So the authority of the noodle hung upon the ears of each one of you, and you are in a state of silence? And do you feel that this is the way to live well and that you do not need any better? Not long before the catastrophic petrol crisis, the Prime Minister was baptized, a candidate for presidents from power that would not increase gas prices. What do we have? This gas crisis has spread prices to virtually all goods and services, and these are not the last surprises of power. And look at the quality of gasoline. I received a letter from an official of the Department of Economic Crime of the Capital Police, who asked me to assist in the fight against fraud at the city’s automobile stations, where there was a two - day verification of auto-fuelling stations, during which special attention was given to fuel quality. Checked 50 fillings. Of these, 29 were designed for research, since not only were they dealing in unsavory and unsavory gasoline but they also practiced low - quality water supply: 100 grams for every 10 liters. Well, what can we say about that? It's in the capital where the President and the Prime Minister live. How do they fool around on the periphery? Dear One, this is how they fool us and cheat us until we realize that we need the authority of the people who will live in its misery. You need life, and all you'll need is a communist led by your leader, a presidential candidate, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. So I ask you to make the right choice - on October 31st, give your vote as a candidate for the Ukrainian Company Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u29	Victor Mironenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u31	Zorema Katusheva, Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, People's Deputies, Voters! On the eve of the election of the President of Ukraine, I would like to share information on the elections already held by our brothers in neighbouring Belarus. People's wisdom says, "By analyzing the mistakes of another, so that you don't repeat them and learn from the experiences of your neighbour all the best and good things that will work for your people." Thus, the negative information in the media about the alleged non-democratic elections in Belarus is a myth. We declare this to be a responsibility. On behalf of my fellow comrades who were observers in the Belarus elections. We saw the entire electoral process with our own eyes. The Belarusians are on their way to preserve the best we've ever had. We've been to the best part of the Soviet Union, and the election is really a holiday for them. I personally visited three districts in sixteen polling stations in the town of Gomel, as well as a closed polling station. The elections were democratic, transparent. The high mobilization of Belarusian citizens and the professionalism of their ideological services are simply admirable. The Belarusian people certainly said yes to their current President. The polls opened and closed in time. The economy is steadily developing in Belarus. I would like to point out the democratic nature of the Belarusian Electoral Code. All candidates for deputies are in equal conditions. High culture of advocacy materials. We did not see expensive bigboards not only for candidates to the House of Representatives of the National Assembly, but also for their President. His people with the love of their father, and that's the word they say. They didn't take a ruble into the International Monetary Fund. The Belarusian President is indeed a people's president who works for his people and does not obey the West's instructions, and this is due to the West's love for him. We also have a popular presidential candidate in Ukraine, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko. His vast experience, his high professionalism and his boundless love for the people will rekindle our depraved Power. Unfortunately, so far, we have seen, not presidential candidates fighting, but money bags fighting. How can you not remember the famous saying, "For the nation is offensive"?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u33	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine. The next one will be the Omelyan Kid.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u34	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Today, there were different views from this rostrum, different points of view from the electoral process that is taking place in Ukraine. First of all, it's about what is being created in society by ideologists about the president's already being defined, about the insignificance of participating in these elections, because it's all decided that someone is going to be shot or doing things that are going to lead to the shedding of human blood. I want to tell you that there are two trends that exist today in Ukraine, the political forces that are confident of their victory, who are confident that their candidates will demonstrate the support of the people, they will go to the elections peacefully, they have given the commission of active members of the commissions, they are preparing to hold these elections under the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act. But there's another trend that's being developed today by a scenario written in Banking, it's a tendency to ignore the electoral process, to have the participation of commission members from eligible candidates so that it just doesn't allow them to get together and make any decisions. And so is this scenario. But there is also opposition to him. The commission will always have 12 members, which will allow elections under the law. And do not be deceived by those who today hang noodles in their ears, telling them that everything has been resolved. Unfortunately, these actions are getting more and more involved today, and the representatives of those so-called law enforcement structures, and above all, the management of these structures, I don't mean the regular militias and lieutenants who are following, unfortunately, perhaps orders, and I would like them not to carry out the criminal orders that today sound from the militia chiefs. I'm surprised, for example, by the position of General Bilokon, who promises to drink in Ukraine for three days and who thinks that the militia is an armed part of power, I'm surprised at the position of General Milinin of Kiev, who scares the Chinese and Ukrainian citizens with the ninja troops he has prepared and wants to throw at people, as he says. But I know that these generals will be responsible for their actions once the People's President comes to power. I know that everyone will answer, including heads of state administrations who ignore the law and do not work today to be elected by law. I know what will also be responsible for Mayor Kiev's intimidation of the kyans by introducing a special condition. What gave Alexander Alexandrovich reason to say this today throughout Ukraine -- that he's one of the candidates, would like the elections not to take place? Clearly, then, he has the confidence of sneezes not for such acts, not for such acts, not for such words, but for a little while. And I'd like him to go back to the framework of normal communication with those who chose him. I'm going back to the Chinese, to the Ukrainians. Come on this Saturday an hour to the center of Kiev. And you and I are going to hear how to avoid these scenarios of the failure of Ukraine's elections, how we can choose our power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, he was about to take his place as John Sidorovich Boki. Please turn on Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u36	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, October 26, will be protested in Kiev at 3 p.m. on Tuesday and in all areas against price hikes organized by the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We urge the people of Ukraine to raise a voice of protest against the onset of a reaction to his life. And let me make a statement to our faction. The last weeks of the pre-election campaign in Ukraine have been marked by the use of administrative resources, as well as by the cynical deception of the electorate. According to a candidate from Kuchma, Prime Minister Janukovic, against the law, is criminally mobilized to campaign a large army of civil servants led by heads of state administrations, deputies of local councils. The authorities are boldly obliged by police, medical personnel, teachers, military officers to vote for the regime and to involve family and family members. A thousand dollars worth of silver is being bribed by rural heads to rape rural communities in favor of a candidate from Kuchma. Right now, the authorities are preparing to receive for him the votes of the convicts and the sick who are in the stations. The list of voters includes dead souls and many voters twice as many. The regime of the Yanks is deceitfully deceiving the people by a high rating candidate from Kuchma in order to sow in people's minds the inevitability of their victory. It is also illegal to use the slogans of dual citizenship and the second national language, which are contrary to the existing Constitution and which cannot be implemented without striking the national interests of Ukraine and which are able to involve us in the burning war conflicts. The government forces Ukrainians to think that today’s elections are a struggle between two Victors, Yushchenka and Yanukovich to ensure the victory of their candidate. Yet, according to all public opinion polls, if the elections are held honestly and without falsification, Victor Yushchenko and Alexander Moroz take the second round of presidential elections. The frost certainly takes first place among the presidential candidates in central areas and holds second place in most areas, particularly Kiev. And so he has a chance to become president of Ukraine after the election in the second round. Frightened by this prospect, Kuchma-Medvedchuk's call uses the most subtle, sublime methods of discrediting the Ice. The regime for the bleaching of today’s President with the help of Russian intelligence has become known. Just before the election, it was George Gongadze who ordered the death of Kuchma journalist George Gongadze. The Socialist faction warns the people of Ukraine of fraud. oligarchic clans that control power from the collapse of elections and the falsification of their results. In order to achieve this goal, you have lost a huge amount of money that the regime has stolen from you. The voter gave his hand to the regime to falsify the election by handing over electoral ballots. Only your high consciousness, your lawfulness, is capable of disrupting your plans of reaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u37	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention, on behalf of Victor Yushchenk's block and Yulia Tymoshenko's block, to a difficult problem that didn't arise this morning, it continues, because everyone understands that power is now in position, and the presidential election is going to be the point of this power. This morning, ten civil organization organizers of the Freedom of Choice coalition working with the OSCE are being searched and they're looking for weapons for a second hour. Obviously there was no ride, and a group of militias who are making this weapon to pick it up, but we are facing the fact that today, as I have already said, any young or older person who has allowed himself the luxury of speaking before the authorities may wake up in the morning, and there will be a group of admirers with a note written on their hands to search and arrest this man. That's why we want to say that the searches on the "Freedom of Choice" leaders' apartments today -- Tkatsky, Svistycz, Poluchovich, other students. This is a challenge for Parliament. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're addressing you as the Head of the Supreme Council to say our word in order to hold a National Security and Defence Council meeting and to have a serious discussion about who's in charge in Ukraine? Who executes, who gives such criminal orders? Perhaps the President is already authorizing another person to do so because the President says he is opposed to such methods of campaigning. Then someone else may be running such electoral campaigns. Regarding the media, he wanted to say a few words. You know, if power is already fighting us with Internet releases that are spreading political anecdotes about power, it's already, excuse me, already "abzac," as one classic said. Even today, security services are blocking websites where there are political anecdotes, trying to block internet visions during the presidential electoral campaign, when government officials today agreed that the 5 channel is closing down the opposition itself to make a profit at this ball, I can't explain it in any way, because at first, the authorities said that we specifically poisoned Yuschenka, and now we're closing the 5 channel. That's why I think everyone has enough sanity to go through this presidential election campaign and stop the situation that was clearly marked yesterday by President Viktor Yanukovic's speech. He made it clear that those people who stopped his daughter’s team were goats. I don't know what "goats" means in the zone, but, according to a sociological survey, we have 3/4 of the population. Imagine this man talking about the Ukrainian people when he becomes president. Then I am absolutely convinced that 47 million honest people will not allow the authorities to call themselves goats and direct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u39	Yes, Omelyan Boy. Last performance, please. Omelyan Pupuk gives his word, that's me for the protocol that the Omelyan Pupuk is present. Mikhailo Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u40	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, people's deputies! Today, from the Communist faction, Georgiy Georgievic Ponomarenko spoke, saying that it was planned to falsify through the creation of additional polling stations. I mean, these are, of course, flowers yet. I myself am the confidant of President Petar Nikolaevich Simonenko for the 214th constituency of the city of Kiev, this is the Golosseev region, and I would like to say that, to date, falsification has already been established. And I'm making some materials, and there's going to be a lot of them, but they do. The point of falsification is this: once you appear on the site, the members of the electoral commission immediately approach and say, "What do you do?" Of the 1,500 to 1,900 voters, they have already found between 100 and 150 "dead". The most common or the most adopted system, the first is that it's a long list. Some say it must have been ten years ago. Up to 50-70 people on the list don't exist at all, about 40 people are extinct, half of them are, or 50-60 are, those who changed their names, many people who don't live here. And so there are 150 to 200 people in almost every one. The situation is also complicated by what cannot be done. Territorial electoral commissions do not allow these shortcomings to be rectified. They say, "When they come, they will be corrected or changed." But, as you know, if the voter fails on the day of the vote, it is practically impossible to make these changes. He can only change them by visiting, as they say, or by terrisby or by bringing them to court. This is practically 25-30 per cent of the total counterfeiting. Communists, of course, are making every effort. But one of the main things I want to say is that people are concerned about what happens next. I'm telling them that if you choose any of the candidates and don't choose Peter Simonenko as president, that's the way it will be. Only the leader of the Communists can ensure the true stability of society and its further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, speeches by national deputies with statements, reports, information has been completed. With regard to the issues raised here, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate addresses and assignments. Three minutes, please exchange your motives. And please invite the national deputies to the session room. Now we're going to be looking at ratification issues. Please, three minutes. Sign up. George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u42	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Head, dear colleagues. What's happening in Ukraine right now is different than the jargon of the current regime of power, as in "non-performing," you can't call it. There's just amazing things going on, forging people, scaring people. But you can't scare everyone, you can't make a zone out of all of Ukraine. And our voters, if we're all united together, the only team, we're going to overcome these rabbit approaches and this rabbit regime. So I have a proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that perhaps today at the end of the working day we should consider the conduct of the presidential election campaign, because Parliament has no moral right to stand aside from the disadvantages that are currently taking place in Ukraine. And on the 23rd block of Victor Yushchenk, tomorrow, he's conducting an appropriate protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u43	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u44	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to propose the last question that stands in preparation for the election to consider it first. The point is, you see what's happening to us in preparation for the election. In the Gitomir region, individual heads of rural councils have received thousands of dollars according to our data just to ensure appropriate vote for a candidate from power in their village. All the hotels in Žitomir were evicted. The task is to receive people, to settle in a hotel of 31 numbers, only those who have a dowry and corresponding tasks have already received these people. If they do not get the votes they need to vote, they will cause some disturbances. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this question needs proper consideration. That is why I am also addressing all Ukrainian citizens. On October 26th, at 3 p.m., there will be an anti-price protest. Let's go out and say no! And honourable voters, once again, if you have a head of the village council forcing you to vote for a certain candidate, you mean, he's already got money for that. And you think about what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u45	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u46	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Friends! Colleagues! Today's last plenary session of the Supreme Council before the election of the President and despite all the efforts of directors from the Bank, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not disbanded and continued its work, and I am proud that laws have been adopted very important to people and that our Parliament has become the last resistance to democracy in today's Ukraine. But I'm ashamed of our colleagues who. Parliament is doing another's will and ashamed of our colleague of the former Special Forces who started a dirty war with the Five Channel. Friends! Today, the Supreme Council is being listened to as the Voice of America once did or listened on the radio "Freedom," because that's the truth. And you, the honourable citizens, have heard the truth, and it's like there's no increase in pensions that's been given to you for two months -- a bribe for elections. And that even this address aid has been stolen from you because it has to be much bigger. And so, dear friends, we will win the election. We'll be together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Well, I can't. All of it. Don't be offended. We've done enough. Everyone who signed up had a chance. A draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on mutual protection of classified information is under consideration. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Dear colleagues! Now we're going to make a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to keep that in mind. Please, Stanislav Tellisforovich. Please, briefly, Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on Mutual Protection of Secret Information, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, will be discussed at the meeting of our committee. This agreement was signed in Kiev on November 7, 2003, by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Vladimir Ivanovich Radchenk. The ratification of the agreement is being carried out in order to promote further development of cooperation in the area of national security of political, economic, military, technical and other fields. The implementation of the terms of the agreement does not provide for additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine, does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, does not require the adoption of new laws or amendments to the current legislation of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, the National Security and Defence Committee, support the draft document. The European Integration Committee is supported in accordance with the additional information provided. As far as I know, this information from the Ukrainian Security Service was provided to the Committee on European Integration. Our committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! What are some warnings? Dear colleagues! Please, we're going to vote now. Please prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the approval of the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on mutual protection of classified information. Please vote. [[11:21:52]] For 241 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act on children with diabetes is being announced for consideration. The factions, please. "For" I call. "Our Ukraine" - 93, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, faction of Communists - 59, SDPU(o), "Trud Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" and "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" -13, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 13. Let's go to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Vacation Act on Children with Sugar Diabetes. Let's vote for them. Let's talk, please. Who signed up for this discussion? Let us exchange our thoughts and make the right decision. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u50	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The changes made to article 25 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act strengthen the legal protection of people who care for a child with diabetes. Sadly, however, in recent years the prevalence of diabetes in children in Ukraine has increased considerably. Today, there are more than five thousand. This terrible statistics should alert the authorities. About 200 children with diabetes are registered in Kirovgrad. In the region, there was a difficult situation with the provision of medicines for the sick. This was especially so after the Soviet Union, when the patients received these drugs in a centralized way. Today, there is no way to satisfy all patients with insulin, for this vital drug is not enough in the budget, but on fireworks that are held daily throughout Ukraine to support the candidate for authority, there are costs. Shame that there is not even a national register of diabetics in Ukraine today, so necessary for the introduction of a personal treatment scheme for each of the 140,000 domestic insulin addicts. The problem today is that 25 percent of patients need insulin that is not produced in Ukraine. From time to time, the Ukrainian press reports that our insulin is inefficient. It's made on low-quality imported production. It's not just doing this to discredit its manufacturer to put bourgeois pockets on it. And there is nothing to stop new Ukrainians from putting their interests ahead of the interests of the large army of the seriously ill. In his speeches, Presidential candidate Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko claims that we should give away such patriots in paws, because the launch of our own insulin production, in addition to providing patients with this life-saving product, saves many people from low-priced imports, and also creates jobs, saves the money that is needed in medicine. In many examples, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko showed that there is a struggle in Ukraine for the market for insulin products and for the profit of selling them. He urges us not to allow the hostages of this fight to become people with severe illness. Families with sick children suffer especially today. Most of them do not have the funds to be treated, since one day they spend 450 dollars in the hospital. Therefore, most parents inject themselves with insulin to their children. Such children need special care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u51	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u52	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honourable People's Deputies, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected compatriots. I am grateful to the newly speaking member of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Vladimir Tikhović Puzakov, for the very strong arguments that have been put forward. The important facts he brought in. I just wanted to add the following. It is expected to leave without pay, without pay. Second, let's think about when this damn time stops, which has turned medicine into a means of living? A lot of people are dying right now because there's no way to buy drugs that are extremely expensive, that they can't cure, that some people are even thinking of doing surgery, and there's no money. When will it be over? Why is all this happening? Vladimir Tikhovović rightly said that the reason was capitalist. What does capitalism mean? Capitalism is a global market. A global market that extends to all spheres of life, including medicine. The Communist Party of Ukraine is convinced that doing business in medicine, in health, in people's lives is morally cruel and generally criminal. And we have to stop this state course. But on whom does this interruption depend? This cessation depends only on the people. And until the people realize that it is necessary to return to a progressive socialist path until the people understand that it is necessary to elect the President of Ukraine, a consistent advocate of socialism, free health, free education, socialism, which guarantees everyone's right to work, rest, housing and so on. Nothing good is going to happen. Now, you'll notice, every morning, the same oligarchic candidates come out and give them an ad. And they're so wonderful, so wonderful, so honest. Although thieves, how can you be an honest man when you've surrounded the people? How can you be an honest man when you get money from American funds? And these people, who are also from the American funds, and they're robbing people, are now trying to trick people again. And unfortunately, there are trustees who are going to vote for the oligarchs. If this happens, God forbid, we can wait at least five years for nothing good. Because the oligarchs will pursue a policy for the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u53	The word has the national deputy of Yavorowski. He's behind him. He's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u54	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, this law is very humanistic. Because you're a wonderful, obviously every adult knows perfectly well that diabetes is not so scary around that age anymore. And when a child has diabetes, it's a fatum, it's actually fate, it's to consider getting this child out of some normal human life. Because diabetes is not a disease, it's a way of life. Because we have taken refuge in these mothers today, with the mother’s help in mind, the help of parents from this disease is very important. I'm sure it's something that needs to be supported hot. I also want to say that we Ukrainians, and perhaps the Lord God has given us, have a unique source for the treatment of diabetes and childhood, and not just children. It's in the east where we have amazing sources. So this is how my colleague confirmed and we're going to take part in the Vladimir Bondarenko faction, he sent children from his district, and for about a month, the kids who drank that water are actually coming back almost healthy for a while. So it seemed like the state would have to take it all under its control right now and, of course, do such a child health care. But that's not going to happen anymore, because these parts of the earth have already privatized the Minister of Transport of ours, our leader of the non-existent majority, who at least leaves the photograph, because the image of Havrish fades away in our imagination and disappears very quickly somehow. As a result, perhaps a portrait would be hung there and we would look at it and mention the dead majority. Now, Gavrish had already built a few floors and had taken over a hectare of land. And Kirp, and Gavrish, and Pinchuk. That's what's gonna happen to this doctor. So let's vote for this law, and I would like to end with my voters, our Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian intelligence to send some kind of good signal, and once again to remind us: people good, in 94 years will determine the final fate of the Ukrainian nation: either you vote for Yanukovic, that is, last day, for yesterday's politics, and this time the bush is already in the criminal execution of Yanukovich, or you will vote for tomorrow, because we Ukrainians are worth a good life, another life. And don't believe there's an automatic under every bush. We're stronger, we're gonna win, we're gonna win, we're gonna win, we're gonna win, we're gonna win, we're gonna win.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u55	Yes, please, Shibka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues, I understand that our slogans for today's election fight are sometimes wasting time to really see what we're voting for. Yes, indeed, the subject itself is very relevant today. We have to take care of how to keep our children safe from the disease that is diabetes. But you do understand that if we vote now, we will not return to this question soon in order to look at it again. And it's about saving. without saving your salary. You understand that if there are private enterprises today, yes, this father or mother can say, "You can be on vacation without saving your salary." And that doesn't mean that, today, at the end of the day, at the end of the holiday we have, this person might go back to this job and be reinstated. And that's really a problem. So the vision of our faction is that we can vote for it, but we have to say that we have to be responsible for the laws we're adopting, because if we don't have these authors today and they might somehow justify the relevance of this law. And if we've already had the situation that we're using part of our speeches for the pre-election campaign, then I'd like to go to the citizens and ask my colleagues: two channels today are "Inter" and "1+1" refuse to give Alexander Moroz an ad as a candidate for the Presidents. It's probably because they've realized that ice cream ratings are increasing, and today, really, it's already a threat to whoever goes on the second round. And we understand very well that today this situation is a violation of the Presidential Elections Act and a violation of the Constitution. Therefore, the faction insists that we keep this in mind, and turn to the appropriate channels to enforce laws, namely, that it goes within the framework of the law, and this advertisement is paid for, as it is today stated in our presidential election law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u57	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Well, one minute. Quiet microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! Victor Yushchenka Block, Ukrainian People's Party, Paul Movchan I would just like to isolate one word in this law of predestination. Indeed, those with diabetes today, especially children, are those children doomed, and we need to do everything we can to save these children, but the most important thing is to save the nation. We are doomed to that regime that wants to be preserved, and we are all doomed to total destruction. Driving across Ukraine, seeing these electoral races that have led to Ukrainian humanity, a Ukrainian village that is already destined to come out here today, allocated land as they did in the United States of America, as they pushed everyone out. So let's save ourselves together. Let us be saved because it is deadly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u59	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the session room. The thing is, it's such a small law. Social sounds. If there is no objection, it is generally accepted as his law. So let's do it, dear fellows, that way. I will put to the vote your proposal, which is in line with the proposal of the adoption committee in the first reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft law amending the law of Ukraine "On Vacations". [[for children with diabetes mellitus]] Registration number 4044. Please vote. [[11:37:36]] For 218. Okay. Dear colleagues, I'll take it that way. On the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act. [[for children with diabetes mellitus]] Please vote. [[11:38:16]] For 229 Now, if you'll have your attention. Since you don't have any warnings, we took it as a basis. Now I'm voting on the whole draft law as a law amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act for children with diabetes. Registration number 4044. Please vote. [[11:38:52]] For 240 The law is passed. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on vacations is being announced for consideration. Communicator Michael Sachsen. Please, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u60	Mikhail Sithina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, 74 constituency, Zacarpathia. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on leave, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Kosinov, in accordance with part one of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on leave and parts of the First Article 182-1 of the Labour Code, provides the father who raises the child without the mother with an annual additional paid leave of seven calendar days. Single women are denied the right to an annual additional paid leave. These legislative provisions are unconstitutional and contravene international instruments ratified by Ukraine. According to part two of article 24 of the Constitution, there can be no privileges or restrictions, including sex. The equality of women’s and men’s rights is ensured by special measures for the protection of women’s work and health, by creating conditions that enable women to combine work with motherhood, legal protection, material and moral support, including the granting of paid vacations. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law will allow us not only to introduce the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Leisure and the Code of Labour Laws of Ukraine to comply with articles 21, 24 and 51 of the Constitution of Ukraine, but also to strengthen the legal protection of single mothers. The amendments and additions are in line with the basic provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the summary documents of the Fourth World Conference on Women, as well as the World Health Organization, the International Labour Organization and the Children’s Fund. It is proposed that an additional seven calendar days of paid leave be given each year to single mothers. The adoption of this law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Dear National Deputies! The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u61	Thank you. There were no discussions between Mironenko, Yavorowski, and Mokchan. Please, Victor Mironenko. get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u62	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! Of course, we will support this bill, which will restore justice to single mothers. And we agree that the Explanatory Note accurately reflects the reality. The author of the bill recognizes that, in fact, the State is currently transferring responsibility to the family almost entirely. But with responsibility for the family, let's see if the State gives anything to the family? He doesn't give anything. He doesn't care about work so much that everyone has a job or a decent salary or anything like that. And the author rightly points out that the number of divorces has increased. How will it not grow when many lose their jobs, a large number of businesses in Ukraine have stopped their jobs? Many on the verge of halting, despite the difirambs of our public capitalist course, are on the verge of stopping. At any time, the enterprise may stop. We have a town in Kerchi, in my district in particular, and I've already said that a huge number of businesses have closed down, but... and raise the question of the privatization of even the Kerchen Sea Trade Port, which is a strategic facility, as well as other seaports. Why? Because once again, the capitalist State protects the interests of only oligarchs, but not 99 per cent of the population. As a result, if that happens, a large number of people will be out of work in my hometown of Kerchi because privatization is inevitable in terms of reducing the state. And I've been approached many times by people: Victor Andreevich, please help me find a job, how can I live without a job, I have a family! And I can't help it. I go to many businesses and these enterprises have people on reserve. They've been on reserve for a long time and they can't get a job. Dear compatriots, note this situation that we have nothing good. We are enacting laws, but I stress and will emphasize that only oligarchs, but not people, are in compliance with the laws of the capitalist State. And that's why we need to change the state course. Consider at least a good example of brotherly Belarus. People live much better there. And it's not just because of Father Lukashenko, thanks to him, but thanks to the socialist course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u63	Yes. Vladimir Yavorowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u64	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushenko’s block, Ravarusk, Novoyavorysk, Frankov, Dubljane, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, I have no doubt that for this bill, all the beautiful people here who are and who defend the interests of the common people are voting for this bill. I took the floor just to pay attention, and if you want, and morally support this category of people, members of our Ukrainian society with you, people regardless of their nationality, whether it's Ukrainian, whether it's Crimea, whether it's Russian, or Polish, or anyone else. And I really want these people to know that we support them. With all the subtlety and uncertainty of the concept of "one mother," I'm convinced that we have Ukrainians, and these are all those who live on this earth independently, once again, from nationalities, perhaps we should support these people today with all that we can support. After all, 13 years ago, we had more than 52 million Ukrainians in Ukraine. In fact, one large district center is dying in every quarter. That's a terrible figure. Given that much of our nation has spread around the world and many will never come back here at all. At least if Janukovic wins, none of those who are now abroad will definitely return here, possibly individual units. That's why today's birth problem is a problem for nation number one. And we need to put these single mothers in a personal position today and thank them for being in such incredible conditions, in such a difficult situation of economic, poverty, obesity, for which a private person is absolutely unnecessary today, they need only themselves, and these choices are organized for themselves. In fact, we have to give this bill and give these lonely mothers the opportunity to give them this vacation. I am convinced that we are going to vote for this. And in closing, I mean, we're on our own land, and I'm talking to the authorities, and we're not afraid of any of your omonos, no one, we're going to win. We have to win. And we will win.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u65	Paul Mokchan, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u66	Paul Silent. Victor Yushchenka's block. Ukrainian People’s Party I'll tell Vladimir Alexandrovich right away: he can't win. They want to win these gangs of thugs who, of course, will do what they've been doing in the Donetsk region since they rolled hundreds of people, all competitors, all those who had a different opinion into the asphalt. You know very well about this crime scene, but my friends in the Communist Party know most about what they did to the opponents. It is so that this does not happen that single mothers, so that all longtime families, in turn, have the incentive to keep us from being zero and negative, as our nation today is at a disadvantage. Today, large villages, large suburban cities are doomed. Unemployment causes people to be depressed. Depressiveness is caused by the fact that children are left out of care. Unemployment is the cause of this unemployment and social problems. That's why I call on all those who are aware of their choice, who want our children to be, to make mothers happy with their children. Meet me tomorrow at 12 o'clock on Krestletick. I call on both Communists and Socialists to join the one wave of opposition that we will be the only force to show that we are unbreakable, that no gang game or rules can win. They can't, they're doomed. At least when I'm in the country, I don't know, it's only the bosses who say they're going to vote for whoever's in power. The only one who, in the evening when they drink a drink, says, "Why, Paul Mikhailovich, let us vote for him. Never in my life. You know he's got a small number of votes. But the number of ballot papers, we know how many are printed. Three million want to bring a gift from Putin from Russia." That's why we start tomorrow to solve our issues and our problems. Come to Khreshtick, 12 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u67	I ask you, Your Honor, to speak on the subject of the law. Yes. The bill is closed. We're going to vote now. Yes, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on leave. Registration number 4136. There's a vote coming. There's a vote coming. [[11:51:22]] For 216 Again? Yes, I'll put it to the vote again. We didn't make it. I see we haven't made it. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on leave. Registration number 4136. Please vote. [[11:52:11]] For 231 What are some warnings about this law? You don't? So I'm going to put, I'm going to pay attention, my dear colleagues, and then I'm going to put, if there are no other warnings to accept it, this project as a law. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt an entire draft law as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on vacations. Registration number 4136. Please vote. [[11:52:57]] For 233 The law is passed. The factions, please. Let's do the factions. “Our Ukraine” - 88, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 13, NDP and PPU - 4, “Deminiciatives” - 0, “Deminicative” - 13. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by two factions demanding a 30-minute recess. So maybe now we'll call it a break, and then we'll read it after the break. Huh? Then they were told what was needed for the application. Is there no objection? What's more, we're having a technological break right now, and we're going to read the application if you don't mind. Well, you're asking for a break, let's take a break. Okay? It's a deal. But once again, I would like to emphasize to the protocol that all of this is done in accordance with the Rules so that there are no unnecessary charges. Break till 12 o'clock for 25 minutes. Please sweat everyone in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u68	As we have arranged according to the statement of the two factions, the word for information on the break has the representative of the Socialist faction Boki Ivan Sidorovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u69	John Boki, the Socialist faction. The Socialist faction and the faction of the People's Agrarian Party have requested a recess in order to consult with regard to what we believe is a disorderly situation that lies ahead of the election. Today, TV channels "1+1" and "Inter" have rejected the Presidential Elections Act of Ukraine in Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz's subsequent advertisement, despite the fact that it counted the costs, it was said to have made a treaty and so on. No one's secret is whose channels are "1+1" and "Inter." "1+1" is the channel of the American billionaire Lauder and the famous political and financial group SDPU(o) Bear, Surkis. The Inter Channel is the channel of Russian capital and the same Medvedchuk, Surkis. Well, if that were simply a refusal, it would be said to be possible to talk about it except in court. But it's not just a refusal. This is one of the links that are built to break the election campaign in Ukraine. It is well known that according to all the public opinion polls, Alexander Moroz is now ranked second in the presidential ratings of Ukraine, and this is what frightens Kuchma, Yanukovic, who have announced to everyone that the second is Yanukovic. But I think this isn't just about trying to separate the second candidate from the national consciousness, from winning the first round. It's about something else. It's about putting this into a pattern of election break and election break in the first round. What is evidence of this step that has been taken today? He speaks of what has been being done by our and Russian intelligence services over the last seven months. We have this information, it's reliable, that we blame Frost and another person for George Gongadze's death. This will be announced in the near future. The language goes against Frost to set up the propagandist second Curve Rig. As you know, in 1999, what it was. I went out to inform the voters of Ukraine about what was going on, and I want to remind them that we're not going to appeal, let's say, to the guarantor of the Constitution, it's like tigers complaining about the wolf, or appeal, let's say, to his conscience, it's long gone, it's gone, it's not going to be, it's not going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u70	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Dear colleagues! We will continue to consider the issues that are on our agenda today. Here we go to the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on illegal entry into the means of transport. [[Registration number of bill 2617]] Please, the drafter of the bill, National Deputy Karnauh. No, we will consider this question. Moses, I saw where, from the committee. Who's on this committee? You don't? Then please discuss. Slippery. Get ready, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u71	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, article 289 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine does not effectively resist the prevention of illegal possession of means of transport, nor does it fully address the problem of illegal entry into transport. Thus, the implementation of the law improves the legal functioning of internal affairs bodies, and it also controls against the illegal use of means of transport. Today, although the Criminal Code does not contain the word "transport theft," it has reached a huge extent. Stolen cars make up more than one car park, but they do not know where they are. Human suffering remains with them, for there is no hope of bringing back the stolen car. What's the use of registering a carjacking application? People live in the hope of receiving help. But it's not for nothing. Years go by and no one comes back. It is not a secret that only the cars that leave the thieves themselves — the cars themselves — fall into the hands of the investigators. Nobody's looking for this transport. When confronted with the electorate, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko gave fundamental answers to the victims and revealed the main causes of human tragedy. It is a special composition of self - inspection staff that is reduced to such a size that they are unable to carry out their duties at the right level; it is a closed stationary DAI - eat, whatever you want and wherever you want; no one will stop you; and for a thief, it is green light. And the operational search job is down to zero. There's nothing to go to the scene, technical equipment for the operatives is out of date, and most of it isn't. Today’s existing system of accounting for stolen port highways is ineffective and completely out of control. The working conditions and the maintenance of the auto inspectorate would be worse, but it is no longer possible. In this regard, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko proposes to create all the conditions for the normal work and life of the self - inspection services, and the special composition of the self - inspection staff is to be filled by experienced experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u72	Please, Mironenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u73	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The IPU faction will support the Committee's proposal, and order is required. However, we would like to draw attention to the situation in which two grains were stolen, given two years, robbed two million, sent to the Supreme Council or to the post of Minister. And that's understandable. Because we have the most criminalist capitalism here. And when I was just talking about Belarus and I was really jealous of them, I was being yelled at by individuals who called themselves, strangely enough, even socialists. They're screaming: yes, there's socialism, bring evidence. I'm bringing proof. First proof. All the oligarchs of Russia, Ukrainians, with their media, are abusing Lukashenko, to whom the people have repeatedly trusted. This already suggests that Lukashenko is against capitalism, for socialism. Moreover, I personally met when the hero cities landed, with Alexander Georgievich Lushenko, and he thanked those deserving veterans, generals, admirals when they expressed their gratitude for the attempt to integrate Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and the socialist orientation. He said, yes, for socialism, all the good things of the past we'll take, no bad brothers. And it is necessary for every president, every MP, to keep his pre-election promises. If every president lives up to his promise, every deputy will live up to his pre-election promise. I think everyone here understands. Next. I have spoken again and again the facts about free health and free education in Belarus and social justice being claimed, and power is being exercised for the benefit of the people by the Americans and the oligarchs of Ukraine, the Russian suburbs, running there, portraying protestors, rallying, organizing riots, covering the streets. But there are very few. It's a small number of people. I'm being asked why we don't hear from Simonenko in the context of such a presidential campaign? Yeah, I can see why there's no radio commercial on TV. Unlike other presidential candidates, he has no connection with oligarchy. That's why he doesn't have an ad. You're on the radio, there's no commercial on TV this morning, and there's one for them. They're getting money from the oligarchy, Western, American funds. He serves only the people, calmly. And if elected by the President, he would naturally pursue policies for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski. Vladimir Bondarenko, please. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u75	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. Dear friends, this law, if approved, will certainly solve some small part of the problems that relate to the preservation of motor vehicles and the activities of the State Inspectorate, which in Ukraine today does not follow the laws of Ukraine, in my view, not the rules that are established for the functioning of the police but according to the instructions of the authorities. Well, let's start with the fact that this law strengthens the responsibility for getting into a car, into the means of transport of people who are not authorized to do so. There are various reasons, including why they go there. In order to drive away this tool, for theft, for conscious damage, for other moments. And there are, for example, dozens of people talking to me. Today, voice signals from vehicles abandoned under the walls of Kiev’s buildings sometimes terrorize the entire night. And in order to shut them down, you have to get in there. It is obvious that in the final analysis, there are also such methods of commissioning with the involvement of a police representative, but for that, there is no penalty in the form of deprivation of liberty. Now I want to talk about the DAI a few words about the parking system. Whether there are conditions in our cities to keep cars and who are legally responsible for their intrusion or not. In particular, a parking system has been set up in Kiev. This is an absolute mugging of the citizens, the people of Kiev and the residents, because none of those who are standing in the parking lot today have any legal responsibility for preserving the car. If broken, robbed, or even broken, no one answers. But along with where you stand, a young man will come to you and ask if you need a receipt or not, and you will definitely collect a few bracelets, much more by the markets. Thus, the Kiev city authorities are likely to be responsible for the maintenance of cars instead of declaring a state of emergency in Kiev over the years. In addition to ensuring the passage of Kuchma and Yanukovich, especially Medvedchuk, State inspection should be responsible for regulating the movement. In Kiev, traffic jams terrorized people. It's a terrible thing when the police are in charge of ensuring that senior officials travel, rather than taking up their direct functions. I think there is a need for order in this regard. The militia should not, especially the DAI, be used to fight the opposition. We know that as soon as the opposition column passes, the militias are sure to send vehicles to it. I think that these problems should also be solved in a more complex law than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u76	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u77	Honorable MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Here my colleagues rightly criticized the work of our Ukrainian DAI and cited the example of Belarus, where it seems to be working very effectively, and criticized bloody capitalism. As a member of the Supreme Council, I had the opportunity to pass through Belarus through transit, and I had the opportunity to travel to England and America. Surprisingly, Belarusian militiamen. The Belarusian umbrellas are very good at the currency of cursed capitalism, and they're happy to take it, which I haven't seen in England or the United States, and even my friends haven't even tried to do it with the right police. Nevertheless, all the traffic rules were followed. And that says that it's not about Lukashenko, and it's not about "cursed capitalism," it's about all the bodies having to abide by the laws. And why should we expect our State to abide by the laws, if it's not followed by the top of our society, does not follow the authority, calling the Ukrainian people "goats". In public speaking in Lugansk, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic did so. And we need to pay attention to this, and we must not allow such disrespect to the Ukrainian people or to Ukrainian motorists. As far as the law under consideration is concerned. Of course, it's the car penetration, the car itself, well, they just don't get in. Of course, for the purpose of looting. And the legislative initiative deserves approval. However, my suggestion is that this law should be voted in the first reading and take into account the positions that there are. And besides, this law does not solve all the issues in a comprehensive way. When it's said that if this law is introduced, and there's going to be a license plate system in our car transport, where without every person with cool numbers, they can drive, where they want to go, where they want to go, where they want to go, and where they want to go, and where they don't want to go, and where they don't want to go, there's not going to be order. So this bill also needs a comprehensive order of traffic rules, a registration system, and a traffic system on our roads. I suggest you take the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u78	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. Invite the national deputies to the session room, and we will be determined. Yeah? Dear colleagues, the committee's decision. The committee proposes the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 2617, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy. And to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the issue of law enforcement with the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subject of the right to legislative initiative, and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on illegal entry into the vehicle]] Registration number 2617. Please vote. [[12:48:31]] For 231 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on liability for petty property theft]] Dear colleagues, the author is the national MP, Pecklusenko. From the committee, please. Andrew Schlell of the Committee. You came out somewhere, didn't you? Let's move on to the discussion. All the findings of the Committee, the Scientific and Scientific Administration and other departments are. Let's move on to the discussion. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Mironenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u79	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština We have probably changed the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences more than once, and what has changed? Crime increases not in years, but in days. For example, some 3,000 crimes occur during the period. And no one thought about it, none of the authorities are concerned about it. That's probably what it takes. People of especially old age live in constant fear for their lives, especially on the day they receive that meager pension. Criminogenicity is just terrible. What is scary is that the criminogenic world is filled with minors, street children, and about 200,000 in Ukraine. These include dozens of serious and average crimes. For example, in the city of Kirovograd alone, 177 persons are in charge of the city’s criminal police department in the 8 months of this year. During this time, 117 teenagers were taken to law enforcement agencies for various offences. In eight months, they committed 113 crimes, 21 robberies, 4 robberies, 88 thefts of personal and state property, 102 juveniles exposed to crimes, and each other did not study or work anywhere. Group crime is also common among minors. In eight months, 107 crimes were committed by groups of teenagers, 177 were committed, and 23 were committed again. What does this terrible statistic say? And does it not alert us to our authority? It's only in one place. What is happening throughout Ukraine? And today we try to look like such good uncles, to make changes and amendments to the Criminal Code, and we need to immediately change the system of power that has become entangled in corruption and lies. The criminal oligarchic authorities are now busy with their own affairs, and they have nothing to do with the people and their children. And so it will be until Ukraine is ruled by oligarchs, sellers, and liars. I am addressing the voters of Ukraine. Think of the future of your children, your grandchildren, your old age. Make the right choice on October 31st and choose the President from the people of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u80	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u81	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable compatriots! There is much to be supported in the bill. Well, in particular, this provides for a new norm, which implies administrative punishment for the act not of three, as was the case previously, without a minimum, unless the amount of the incursion exceeds three unladen minimums, only this was justified. Now there are 10 unfettered minimums. And that's right. Well, I agree with a former MP who said that we should learn the attitude of everything good in the world, the attitude of order, and the Penal Code should be appropriate, and the Administrative Code that we are considering should also be appropriate. We have to take something good from the United States. I wasn't in the United States, unlike some pro-American deputies, and I wouldn't be invited there if I were invited. But I agree that if there's anything good in the United States, we have to take it. At the same time, however, the same MP did not point out that, first, in Belarus, the lowest crime was not only among the CIS republics but also among Europe. And you have to admit that. Why? Because the leader of the State of Belarus has provided a single nation in which both Belarusians and Russians, and Ukrainians, and all work for one idea: economic growth, an increase in the standard of living of the people, and order in the country. There are also voluntary women of the people who have forgotten these pro-American deputies of capitalism. They're just, remember, when they eliminated the Union, the first thing that these nationalists and Democrats called for an end? People's control, people's courts, people's wife, because thieves don't need any people's power, they don't need any people's control. They had to ensure universal privatization, price leave. And everyone understands how the money came from these oligarchs. They say he managed to make money. They don't talk involuntarily, they managed to make money. In fact, the price leave was deliberately carried out to transfer money from the pocket to people or to save workers from newly declared bankers. Privatization to create large capital. And now these capitalists say that it never happened that the initial capital accumulation would be without theft. They recognize themselves as thieves. And how will the thieves who stand in power plant thieves? That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u82	Vitalia Šibka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please. Calm down, dear fellows, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u83	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to emphasize that we may actually have to vote in favour of this law, although it is strange that the authors of the one and the previous bill that we have considered are not present here. They somehow care about passing those bills or not. And I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's probably stop the avalanche of ours. I've already been protected from this Belarus. I feel like I'm already in the Belarusian Parliament. Let us conclude our own laws today, Davidovich has come and we will listen to him, and we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u84	Thank you. The bill is closed. It's from Gabrieluk and Mokchan. For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u85	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Colleagues, there's some very disturbing information right now. I wanted to draw your attention. According to article 81 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the powers of Ukrainian national deputies are suspended at the same time as the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are terminated. The mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy is terminated in the event that paragraph one, second, and third paragraphs are terminated. I want to read them. Whether his conviction is ineffective or not. Not available. Vladimir Mihajlovich, perhaps our colleagues, have disappeared somewhere and it is time for us to do something about it. There are a few colleagues today who appear in the hall, and for the rest we do not know the information except for Gavrish, who appears on the TV channels. I think we should think about it with you. Second, the fourth paragraph really works, "to stop his citizenship or go abroad." Is that what's going on? We have to figure this out somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u86	Thank you. Paul Silent. And we'll vote. Yes, national deputies, invite you to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u87	Victor Yushchenka's Block, Ukrainian People's Party, Paul Movchan. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, understands that this law in this paper needs to be maintained, even though it doesn't solve any problems, because it's not just the fact that he's in tautology, it's really a situation where you don't have to change the bed, you know, and you have to change the whole system. And that's why I'm here supporting the left-wing calls that we need to change the system and the system of power, no doubt, and the power itself. And the thing is, the real possibility is to do it on the 31st when we support Victor Andryovich Yushchenka. And so I would just like us to stop this mythology of Lukashenko, and I support Vitali Yakovic. A myth is made about such a good uncle and the good state he wants to go to. Every night they run across Ukraine's borders in the Plainland of Belarus, all they can do is because prices are incredibly low. You know very well how much this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's talk about our bill. I think everyone else will figure out what to do. So I'm putting to the vote, please note, the proposal of a professional committee, it's meant to support the bill and adopt it as a basis, and to put to the vote a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement, to finalize the draft Law amending the Code on Administrative Violations, taking into account the comments and proposals of the national MPs, as well as the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the second reading. I'm voting on this proposal, which is the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 3668. [[on liability for petty property theft]] Please vote. [[13:00:12]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have. May I have your attention, please? We don't have three draft laws to consider, they're simple. Maybe that's how we'd do it. Just a minute. There are the authors of these bills, we'd give them a short cut, and we'd put them to a vote, and then we'd continue for 15 minutes without having a discussion. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy is now under review. [[on radio and television performances]] The essence of the bill, Your Honor, I ask you to bring to your acquaintance the Kulczynski Mikol Georgievovich. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entitled to 10-15 minutes of air on radio and 20 minutes of television every month. District television companies motivate, argue, by the Radio and Television Act, that the presentation form is determined by a district television company. And from here they say we only accept it in writing. The recording is not always clear; it does not always control what is left after you speak. That's why I introduced this direct air standard. For who, apart from the deputies, will be able to bring to their electorate those deputies who feel accountable to the Ukrainian people, to their electorate, journalists will not do so because they are placed in such conditions, and those who want to do so will not. Wait, and the deputy can do that and tell people that, say, Prime Minister Yanukovic, a candidate for the Presidents, is agitating at us in Poltava, meeting with the intelligence of the place and telling anecdotals about women's panties. Or in Lugansk he calls the entire Ukrainian people "goats." Who can do that? We'll talk about it. No journalist will say that. So I can tell you how the Internal Affairs Department is stalking the students of Poltava today, dropping explosives, dropping fake money. I can tell you that. No one will ever talk about it again. It may not sound in the record either. That's why I'm asking you to support and I'm asking you to support exactly what he said in the committee's editorial, or in direct air time mode, and to accept it as a whole. And we can have direct air time on television in the coming months and days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u90	What are some warnings about the bill? Let's vote, shall we? Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal, I read it: to adopt the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. To entrust the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the task of drafting a bill that takes into account the proposals made by legal entities and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm voting on this proposal, on the basis of acceptance. Registration number 5396. Please vote. [[13:03:39]] For 234 Decision taken. What's the offer? Who? Who is opposed to such an offer? Well, Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! We're on the committee proposing to enact these changes to the law as a whole, but as National MP Kulczynski put it, with precision, either live or live, because sometimes there's a physical situation that can't be done directly. With this clarification, the committee requests as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u92	Who are warning against such refinement? With that kind of clarity. Please cancel the vote. Town hall, please, Ratushnjak microphone, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I'm literally 15 seconds away. The point is, you'll get a live broadcast at 6 a.m. on Tuesday, after 24 hours on Wednesday, and so forth. Keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u94	I'm voting on a proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies as a whole as a law. [[about radio and television performances]] Registration number 5396. Please vote. [[13:05:22]] For 237 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, a draft decree to amend the Ukrainian Government's Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, about the substance of the proposals, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! At the Committee's meeting on 10 December 2003, a draft decision by the Supreme Council to amend the Government Day in the Supreme Council, introduced by the People's Deputy Hubski, was being considered. The essence of the proposals proposed by the People’s Deputy, Hubski, is to give the floor first to representatives of MPs and factions and representatives of non-fractional MPs when considering the issue on Government Day. The committee considered this issue and notes the following: After considering the matter on the committee, the question. The Government's word day is not settled. In this case, therefore, we need to apply the provisions of the current Supreme Council Rules. In line with the changes made to the Rules, such as article 3.3. 4 Members of our committee have arranged to give the floor to the people’s deputies when they consider matters of the order of the day. This issue of giving a word, the turn of the word, is fully regulated by the current Rules. The Committee further identified a number of comments to the drafter concerning, inter alia, that, not the Head of the Supreme Council, but the first Deputy, and the Deputy, when they hold meetings, should give the floor in accordance with the Rules. The Committee, referring also to the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, which also made a number of remarks to the bill, decided to propose that the People's MP to the Hubski draft the bill he had tabled. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am putting to the vote the first one, on the basis of a draft decree amending the Ukrainian Government's Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 4374.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u97	The committee does not support the suggestions made. [[13:08:24]] For-47
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u98	No decision taken, document rejected. I think it's in line with the recommendations for processing let it go. And this project is rejected. Dear colleagues, we have another document left. It's a draft law amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act. Gennady Josephovich, very briefly. And we're going to move on to the next question. Registration number 4192.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Civil Society Act was adopted in 2001. The law is good. In accordance with this law, we have received citizenship under the simplified system of 144 thousand 247 persons, including a simplified standard of 136 thousand 550. But since the adoption of the law in Ukraine, there have been major changes in the legislative sphere. This is primarily the adoption of the new Criminal Code. The immigration laws passed, the refugee law. Mainly, Ukraine signed the European Convention on Human Rights. By the way, I signed it without warning. This is a very serious, solid document. And we need to change the Ukrainian citizenship law. These changes are aimed at simplifying the formulation of Ukrainian citizenship without lowering the demands on people who want to acquire Ukrainian citizenship. There are a number of specific suggestions. Well, first of all, instead of one year, a citizen's application will be considered for two years. This is at the request of many citizens who approach us. By the way, there are now almost 30,000 applications for citizenship in the public sector. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations unanimously supported the proposal and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the law on a basis, taking into account the proposals that would come upon its consideration at the next stage. Committees in foreign affairs and European integration have also decided to support the bill. In particular, the Committee on European Integration notes in its reply that this bill is in line with all the norms of both the Council of Europe and the European Union. Thank you for your attention and your request for support, because this is really a law that literally applies to every citizen of Ukraine and it will greatly strengthen the resolution of citizenship issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the information was convincing, reasoned. There are appropriate decisions of the committee that unanimously made such a decision, and there are conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. [[Registration number 4192]] Please vote. [[13:12:33]] For 227 Decision taken. For Rephat Chubarov, please. And now let's move on to the next question. This is information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u101	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I didn't mind that we voted. I have upheld this law myself, and during the committee discussion and now. But I would like to pay attention to the national MPs, to our electorate. representatives of the media. The Citizenship Act, the status of citizenship, is one of those tough points where there are a lot of issues. And it's not clear when we're dealing with cases like this where some people get citizenship as a gift in opposition to current legislation. I was shocked, that's when tens of thousands of Crimean Tatars over five or seven years couldn't get Ukrainian citizenship when Cobson says he was given Ukrainian citizenship, that we had moments like this. I wish we didn't have cases like this, and this Cobzon thing was being investigated to the full and so we could hear it. Cobson, head of the Committee of the State of Russia, who is here aspiring for our candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Paul Silent. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u103	Victor Yushchenka's Block, Ukrainian People's Party, Paul Movchan. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the Citizenship Act is fundamental, because it is constitutional. And so the question of speculation around citizenship is unacceptable. Neither Janukovich nor anyone else is allowed to speculate on this subject. And I would like to point out that there is information that seems to have been donated to the Crimea citizenship of Girinowski. Think of the absurdity that our nation is having. These speculations must be stopped, and these procedures, which are called honorary or some citizen, or another citizen of Ukraine, Girinowski. We haven't had enough of Girynowski yet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u104	Honorary colleagues are called upon to consider the issue: the state of readiness to vote on 31 October 2004 on the election of the President of Ukraine and compliance with the relevant requirements of the Law. In this regard, the Deputy Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich, is informed, and from the Temporary Special Commission, he will address the relevant information, Georgi Grigorovich Ponomarenko. We agreed on a commission to do so. 15 minutes for. In 15 minutes for information by Jaroslav Vasilovich, 10 minutes for questions, if any, 10 minutes for information from the Temporary Special Commission, 5 minutes for questions. Is there no objection? I invite you to the rostrum of Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich, deputy head of the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Central Electoral Commission, to express my sincere thanks for the first opportunity given after the time we have passed since we took the oath of the members of the Central Electoral Commission in February this year, to address the Supreme Council of Ukraine with information on the electoral process. It should immediately be noted that all members of the Central Electoral Commission consider today's information to be an important milestone in the history of our recently-formed state body, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has nevertheless sought the opportunity to learn from the first lips about all the important periphery that we have to face in our activities in the process of organizing, preparing and holding the elections of the President of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Allow me today to briefly pause at all the steps that have been taken by the Central Electoral Commission to carry out the legislative mandates for the organization, preparation and conduct of the elections of the President of Ukraine, which will take place on 31 October 2004. In fact, the process of preparing for the presidential election was initiated by the Central Election Commission as soon as it was completed. For a long time, we have carried out a rather thorough analysis of the last presidential and parliamentary election campaign, as well as of the experience of organizing the electoral process in many foreign countries and of the better achievements of the national and foreign sciences of constitutional law. The result of this work was that important proposals were made for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve the national electoral legislation that had been passed on to the Supreme Council. However, I have to say that, unfortunately, Ukraine still has a deplorable practice of enacting new electoral laws for each electoral campaign, with which they are generally adopted a few months before the electoral process. Unfortunately, it was no exception to the 2004 election of the President of Ukraine. It is known that the last electoral law was passed only in March of this year. And there have been repeated attempts to change it. Long before the electoral process began, the Commission was able to take a number of steps to prepare and conduct the elections properly. In particular, a number of draft documents on organizational and material and technical election provision have been developed. The Central Election Commission has prepared several draft decisions for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank of Ukraine relating to the election of the President of Ukraine, such as the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, primarily on the purchase of goods and services by the Central Electoral Commission and the territorial election committees during the electoral process, the approval of the payment order and the reimbursement of the costs of services provided by the territorial and business electoral commissions during the preparation and conduct of the election of the President of Ukraine, the conditions and procedures for the payment of the work of the members of the territorial and regional electoral commissions for the election of the President of Ukraine, and the relevant instructions of the National Bank of Ukraine on the modalities for the opening, use and closing of the current accounts for the use of the election of the election boards and the regulations of the election. After the electoral process began, that is, after the third July of this year, 225 regional constituencies were formed from the election of the President of Ukraine and a separate foreign constituency. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to the Ukrainian Presidential Electoral Act, the territorial constituency includes one or more districts, cities, areas in cities. The new electoral law does not allow the division of areas, which has led to an imbalance in the number of voters in individual territorial constituencies. This is especially evident in the formation of districts in large cities. For example, in Kiev, there are 91,000 voters in the electoral district of 219. And in the territorial constituency number 217 at the Dniprovsky district, there are 265,000 voters, nearly three times as many. Such a unique approach to the establishment of territorial constituencies forces the Central Electoral Commission, on the one hand, to comply with the requirements of the law and, on the other hand, to resolve a number of complex organizational and financial issues. The territorial election committees included 9,000,652 persons or 42-46 persons on one commission. In Ukraine’s new history, for the first time in these committees, there are so many people who differ in political views, in legal training, and with the rest who are willing to work on these committees. It is particularly important to point out that after the establishment of the territorial electoral committees of a mass nature, a process of submission to the Central Electoral Commission has been acquired by the members of these committees of applications for their release from management positions as part of the committees and their responsibilities. To date, the Central Election Commission has suspended 409 members of the territorial electorate, including 224 who have been called to office as President of Ukraine, 152 on a personal basis, 19 for failing to perform their direct duties. There has also been a significant change in the leadership of the territorial election committees. In particular, 40 heads, 27 deputies, and 44 secretaries have changed. In individual commissions, two or three changes were made. The main reasons for the statements made by members of the territorial electoral commissions are the lack of their consent to work as part of a commission of candidates for the office of President of Ukraine, the inability to perform their duties because of health, family, and other circumstances. It should be noted that, unfortunately, this process takes place every day. And today the Commission continues to receive statements from members of the District District Election Commissions and the submission of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine on the termination of their terms of office. The above testifies to the formal approach of individual candidates for the post of President of Ukraine to the implementation of the requirements of the law on the recommendations of candidates to the territorial election committees. So you can imagine the difficulties that have been faced by the territorial election committees in forming the district commissions, which are now made up of 33 thousand, 1202, involving one million, two, six thousand, 42-46 people on each commission. Today, the electoral commission is twice the composition of the deputies of the village council and the unprepared people, the heads of these committees, can imagine how difficult it would be for them to organize the work of this body, which will provide work on the day of the vote. Of course. After their formation, the Central Electoral Commission held a number of organizational arrangements, including meetings with the heads and accountants of the territorial electoral committees, during which a wide range of issues related to the organization and the conduct of the presidential elections were discussed in detail. After the establishment of the electoral boards, the Central Electoral Commission holds regional meetings, seminars with members of the commission, involving a wide range of international organizations and the scientific potential of our nation. In addition, for example, the Central Electoral Commission today held a selector meeting with the heads of the territorial electoral commissions, the heads of the local authorities and the authorities of self - government with a view to promptly resolving the problems that arise in their activities and in the activities of local executives and local self - government in dealing with issues related to the exercise of powers defined by electoral legislation. A number of methodological recommendations and clarifications on the application of individual provisions of electoral legislation have been developed and approved for the purpose of methodologically ensuring the functioning of electoral commissions, which are extremely useful in their work, according to the electoral organizers. This is about documents on the conduct of electoral commission business, the formation of polling stations, the formation of district election committees, the registration and status of official observers from the political parties and candidates for the office of the President of Ukraine, the text of the law, the rulings of the government, the decisions of the Central Electoral Commission and other normative acts adopted together with other public authorities, published in three editions of the legislative and legal acts collection and mass circulation - 35,000-70,000 addressed to each business commission. An important aspect of the work of the Central Electoral Commission is the information and analysis of the electoral process. Thanks to the hard work of experts in the field of modern information technology, I am convinced that we will be able to expand the protected corporate telecommunications network of the Central Electoral Commission and a stable bilateral electronic connection with all the territorial electoral commissions. This information and analysis system, given the speed of the elections, will allow for the rapid transmission and adoption of normative documents and materials by the Central Electoral Commission and their territorial authorities on the electoral process. It will also ensure that the Central Electoral Commission receives and publishes information on the voting process and the previous results of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31st in the course of approximately 10-12 hours. I am deeply convinced that if the sun rises, Ukraine too will learn about the results of the vote. In order to ensure a level playing field for the electoral process in the use of media, the Central Electoral Commission has adopted a series of important decisions on how to give airtime and printed areas to candidates for the post of President of Ukraine to conduct them with the expense of the State Budget. The drawing was carried out as to how much time it takes to give them and the printed areas within the scope defined by the law. The financial, material, and technical provisions of the elections are carried out in a manner determined by the funds approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its own time. I inform you that on October 22, the electoral process is funded in the amount of 253 million 966 thousand dollars, which is 65 percent of the total funding foreseen by the State budget of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the holding of the President's election is certainly of great interest to foreign states and international organizations. On October 22, this year, the Central Election Commission registered three thousand 206 official observers and is expected to register almost three and a half thousand, as the rest are still under review by the Central Electoral Commission. Of 252 people from 18 nations, 2954 from 25 international organizations, nearly five times the number of observers in the 1999 election of the President of Ukraine. It is gratifying to note that the elections of the President of Ukraine are of interest: the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, international organizations, the Ukrainian Congress Committee of America and many other international organizations. In addition, observers from candidates for the post of President of Ukraine and other subjects of the electoral process, now numbering nearly 86,000, continue to grow daily. I would also like to point out that the candidates for the post of President of Ukraine have made full use of their right in each territorial constituency to register trusted persons who are now registered with three thousand 600, including 113 Ukrainian national deputies and 108 advisory assistants. As for the Central Electoral Commission's implementation of the material and technical security of the elections, I inform you that the vast majority of the electoral documents used in the presidential elections are made centrally by the commission. This applies to the texts of laws, the Constitution of Ukraine, and other electoral documents. Centralized production has been completed, and the delivery of 104,000 large and 80,000 small ballot boxes, as well as 70,000 archival boxes, to the territorial election boards, has been virtually completed, for the storage of relevant state archives. This is not a complete list of the issues and problems that the Central Electoral Commission is addressing in preparing the election of the President of Ukraine. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, in my brief speech and I did not focus on the problems that the Central Election Commission is solving today, because I am confident that we will all succeed in bringing this important stage of our country's history to a successful conclusion. After the election campaign is over, we will address the Supreme Council of Ukraine with specific proposals for amending electoral legislation with a view to improving it. Once again, I would like to express my thanks to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the opportunity to inform the Ukrainian national deputies of the preparations for the election of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u106	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, you obviously have a question. Please sign up. As we agreed, 10 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yes, Rephat Chubarov, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u107	Thank you. Jaroslav Vasilovich, I'm here. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction. I mean, many of the district commissions in Crimea, and I think it's not just in Crimea that they're going to run elections in such unapproached rooms and especially in terms of the area as defined in the law. I contacted local authorities in Crimea. They say, "You've passed such a law, and we don't have the conditions to do it." That's the first one. Very low quality voter lists. Hundreds of people within one district commission can be missed and there are dozens of dead souls in the same commission. When we analyzed it, this analysis gave us the opportunity to conclude that the local authorities assumed such errors by coming out of which their intuitive thoughts or expectations were. I'd like you to comment on this situation. What do you do as the Central Election Commission to make the law run in this part? Nothing has been said on your part. And the lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u108	Thank you. First of all, there is nothing else in the state’s voting facilities. Where elections have been held for decades and they are held there and will be held. Regrettably, it is not everywhere that the standards of the premises correspond to the approved, more faithfully established in the law on the election of the President of Ukraine, but as for me, a few meters more or less completely, I don't think they will affect the results as another question. Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please don't wave your hand. When there is no more than 75 meters of space in the area today, the elections need to be held, and there is a 50 - foot [50 m] space. Tell me there's gonna be a vote. That's the first one. The other one. Indeed, the voters ’ lists are based on lists that were handed over by the authorities on July 1. Indeed, there are many problems. But I will. If we had an official voter list of 36 million 80,000 on Monday, it is now 36 million 80,000. As you can see, this week nearly half a million voters have clarified their names and are included in the lists. Unfortunately, this is the mechanism today. Government authorities draw up lists on the basis of data provided by relevant government institutions. Today, it is no longer a practice to conduct a yard tour, as it was before or otherwise. And the data they have is based on law enforcement. And other than that, once again, I'm stressing that the cancellation of the pen, and the not-cleared issue of citizens' registration, is the first reason. But in the long run, we're working on how the state registers, first of all, the individuals and the voter registers, then these questions will be removed from the agenda. And I'm going to say that today, today and tomorrow, and this week, the members of the district committees and the territorial commissions and other persons involved in organizing the electoral process are working on clarifying the voter lists. If this organized work continues, I have no doubt that all Ukrainian citizens will be included in the lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u109	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, this morning Georgiyyyovich Ponomarenko, you may have heard this, he has made a statement that is likely to be considered and considered to create more than 400 district commissions, particularly in the Russian Federation. You said that the Centre would probably not consider this issue. I think that Jaroslav Vasilovich you know well and how nobody knows that this rude violation is going to be electoral legislation. So I'd like to say it a little bit more firmly and more clearly. Nevertheless, the Central Election Commission will be involved in this dirty work after the creation of additional business commissions or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u111	Valentin Grigorovich, first of all, I want to say that this statement "may or may not be," I didn't say. To date, 113 polling stations have been formed in all countries of the world, with diplomatic representations, consulates. Ten constituencies formed. This is the Republic of Moldova, Vietnam, except in the case of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Today, members of the Central Electoral Commission have no other draft decrees for the creation of other additional polling stations. And I can't say if they're going to consider it. So far, the members of the committee don't have such materials on their hands. I have not personally seen such submission as the deputy head of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u112	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u113	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I have a few questions. First. In Poland, some initiative groups are being set up to support Yanukovic. That's the first one. This is done out loud, without any problems and with the support of the administration. The other one. Alexander Moroz visited Poltavščina three times and never once did the district television company, the state broadcaster "Altava" did not allow him to perform directly, whereas, say, Mrs. Vitrenko, Mr. Janukovic had no problem. Today we have witnessed that Alexander Frost was denied advertising on "Inter" and on "1+1." And finally the third question. In Poltawa, medical authorities are threatening to release their subordinates to write statements in a divisional commission about the physical inability to vote in the polls on the day of the election and to collect these statements. Please comment on such facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u114	Thank you. I don't know about any initiative groups. And you know, of course, if they're created, it's definitely a gross violation of the law. The Central Electoral Commission will be informed of such facts, and we will react accordingly. With regard to airtime, the Central Election Commission, Alexander Alexandrovich, as well as other candidates, provided adequate funds for the State Budget for airtime in full terms as defined by law. As far as broadcasting is concerned, this depends, of course, primarily on the cost of the candidate’s own funds, or personal funds. I can't comment on it today, because I don't know these facts again, and I don't know why they're giving it to, who they're refusing it to. This question needs analysis, but it can be studied. until election day, and the answer can be given to you. With regard to other issues that you raised about some of the work that goes around a certain category of voters, again, there will be appeals to the Central Electoral Commission, consideration and decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u115	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u116	Dear reporter, question one. So you're saying that contrary to media reports, it's not about creating an additional 450 plots in Russia. I mean, there's no time to create them anymore. I mean, confirm or deny it again. The other one. Victor Yushchenka’s supporters report that his opponent is preparing and not only in Kiev. Technical candidates are expected to withdraw representatives from election committees as a result of their loss of quorum and authority. Well, Donetsk's gonna be fine, there's no doubt about it. And the third. On the Internet, reports that seals began to disappear in the Lugansk region in the polling stations. Condemn or What Does It Mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u117	Answer. First of all, the creation of territorial district election committees in Russia is a question that is not yet included in the agenda of the Central Electoral Commission and draft documents have not been developed. I can't comment on it because the members of the committee haven't considered any material yet. That's the first one. That's the second one. As far as I'm concerned. I'm like that. I'm a member of the Central Electoral Commission, a lawyer by profession, such a technical candidate, I don't know, I know the candidates who are all equal to me in the electoral organization, and I'm asking you to have a discussion as a representative of the public authority. As far as I'm concerned. In fact, as part of the commission, I said, 42-46 people are working on the district commission, believe me, not just to organize their work, these people, and of course there are, they say, antidotes to each poison. If they call on their people or use dirty political technologies, the Central Electoral Commission is also working and has the right vision of how to ensure that these committees operate so that they are competent, i.e. they have at least 12 members of the commission, and the vote is organized. In principle, we work and keep it under control. As far as sealing is concerned, for the first time I've heard from you, at least the Central Electoral Commission doesn't have that kind of information, and I think it's also a big exaggeration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u118	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich, just in time. Thank you. 30 seconds to help. Gregory Bondarenko, I invite you to the rostrum. I'm sorry, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u119	I'd like to address the esteemed radio audience. Mr. Jaroslav called the 219, which is now in this election this number has moved on to Pechersk. And the current one is my constituency, one of the largest in Ukraine, where there are 108 thousand voters. And there he was called, the smallest Caversky. I apologize, but for the transcript and for the audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u120	This is for the electorate of Bondarenko's former district. So here. From the Temporary Special Commission, George Ponomarenko gives the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Vasilovich reported on the state of readiness and voting on October 31st in the election of the President of Ukraine from the point of view of the CBC. I think the evaluation he gave is knowledge of the matter on the spot. And the flaws he didn't talk about here. I'll tell you that all the shortcomings that we see today in the work of the territorial and regional electoral commissions are created by the system of their assembly, which was established not in the Presidential Election Act of Ukraine, but in Kiev, in the headquarters of a well-established candidate. From this point on, Kyiv’s certified notary went directly to the area of submission from 14 candidates. Here was a computer program designed to determine board positions that produced results that had long been known to the authorities. And so in the submissions of many trusted persons there were both candidates, and year and year, and two of them dead and ineffective, and people who didn't know that they were in the submissions, not to mention that most of them had found out which candidate they were from only when they were told about it at the election board. That's where the boards go down. Prints of opposition candidates under different headings continue: whether it is threatened to be removed from the list of recipients of unemployment assistance, such as in Zitomirsk, or intimidation by authorities, or adoption by commissions, where most of us, where the majority of us, the majority of the representatives, are candidates for the power of prejudiced decisions relative to individual members of the commission. I'll give you an example of when, in the Mikolai district, 16 representatives were not included in the commission because they were in parallel with their applications to represent Simonenko, someone wrote statements about their representation from other candidates. They appealed to the Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal did not give that assessment, and only the appeal to the Supreme Court helped to establish justice. How many of these have been reported in Ukraine as a whole? I'll tell you, not one thousand people were on board. I can give an example of when in Lugansk, in a decision of the territorial commission, one person in one constituency is from Simonek and another from Basiluk. And the question is, show me the statement that she wrote from Basiluk, they're spreading out with their hands. Regarding the insufficient work of the district election committees, the materials of the Ukrainian Electoral Committee are available. The problem with voting facilities is particularly acute. The MP's already talked about it. I think we can agree that part of the electoral boards will not be secured by the standards provided for by the law, because, as Jaroslav Vasilovich said, there are no such facilities in a number of locations or in nature. But where there is such a possibility, we need to make sure that these requirements are met. I hope that the appeal of Vladimir Mikhailovich to the heads of the local council on this issue will provide an opportunity to remedy the situation. They said it was a list. And if the voter lists the percentages shown by the voter committee - 4.8 - dead souls and 5.3 - did not live where they were registered, there would be some way to make peace. But our members of the constituency boards are informed by trusted persons: 300-400, 40 percent of the lists are dead in separate areas. The work of law enforcement officials, who not only act idlely on the facts of criminal intervention in the electoral process, but themselves become a tool of crime, says the fact that this Sunday a member of the Communist faction of the Police spoke about the actions of the Sevostopol militia in relation to the advocacy cosmopolitan groups in support of Simonek, about how the militia delayed buses with the people who went to the "Fore country, for the people, for Simonenko" campaign. Yesterday at Yanukovich's speech in Lugansk, I don't know if he called all of us "goats" or not, the police detained a group of young people who distributed campaign material for Simonnka and released them only when the candidate from power left the meeting. I won't talk about how they're agitating, for whom they're agitating, for who and how many of the candidates appear on TV screens, for whom I'm talking. The leader here is a candidate of authority, and that's what we're talking about every day, including today, hearing statements from deputies in the session room. The equality of candidates in the campaign can only be dreamed of. As of today, all district and district officials have been mobilized and deployed to polling stations. They're not assigned to help the local authorities create conditions for a normal election, they're assigned to ensure that the "require" percentage of votes per individual candidate is given. I would like to remind you that under the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, no official of the executive and local self-government authorities can be at the polling station on the day of the vote, either as observers or in any other post, except as the electorate. As for the CTC's complaints and the election committee. The main mass of complaints comes to the commissions of the territorial commissions, complains about irregularities in the formation of the divisional commissions, the inaction of the electoral committees, the inaction of the authorities in creating conditions for the proper conduct of the elections. Especially are many complaints about pre-election agitation. I think we still have time to get rid of some weaknesses in the preparation for the vote, and check the lists, and that's what the voters themselves should do, first of all, to fix the material security of the districts. And we, Vladimir Mikhailovich, still have questions: We have many people who have not changed our passports. At my request, the Central Electoral Commission said that this would be an appropriate explanation. It would have been good will, it would have been good. Unfortunately, both the will and the desire of the authorities to make elections fair, transparent and open, we do not notice. I would like to finish my speech with the words of today's noun Boris Oliynik: "You shall not take the people for a meal, he shall make a distinction in rank, and who is his son by spirit, and who is a son of a bitch by spirit." I'm sure on October 31st, the people will make their faithful choice. They will choose their son by spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, is there a question for our colleague? Please sign in. Five minutes as we agreed. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Kulczynski, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u123	You said it right that sometimes the police turn into. She's making her own crimes. In particular, we were arrested yesterday in Poltava by a student and a student who were distributing a totally legal newspaper, registered, with material about Yushchenko. They were subjected to brutal pressure. At the Technical University, 60 people were threatened with exclusion and refused to be members of the DTC. The rector terrorized students all night long through the dean until they refused to be members of the DVC. Yesterday's raid on the youth coalition coordinator Eugene Yankovich in Poltava. Hundreds of militiamen, it's like there's something terrible going on. Who knows what they can throw? I know Kiev is being bombed. I want to know, our temporary monitoring commission, how to react to it, how to do it, because it's a crime. Today, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is becoming something between the Gestapo and the KGB.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u124	Well, I'll tell you that even today, the legitimacy of a temporary special commission is being charged in the Constitutional Court, first. And secondly, I said that in some cases, law enforcement officials are not only acting idlely on the facts of criminal interference in the electoral process, they themselves are becoming a tool of crime. That's the same tool for crime. I'll tell you that our response can be a reference to these actions, it always does, almost always, the CLTC, when it looks at complaints and applies to the relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u125	Vladimir Novak, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u126	Please give the floor to my colleague Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u127	Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u128	I have a question first, next. There is already an enormous number of violations. Communists and Communist supporters, who are in charge of monitoring the preparations for the elections, have already found a large number of violations. Well, what happens the last week before the election when the deputies leave for the county? How will your commission work? And it may already be Vladimir Mikhailovich as chairman of the commission. And the second question. I observed a great number of violations when a candidate for the MPs went out in 1998, 2002 and in honor, from the town of Szelkino. In the town of Szelkino, two days from the district electoral commissions, documents were not brought to the district commission, falsified and so on. And here's the question for you and maybe I wanted to ask that question earlier, but it just didn't work out for me, the centrifuge. Will your commission help?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u129	Well, I'm like you people's deputies and I'm leaving for the polls tomorrow. And Vladimir Mihajlovich will probably confirm that we are not going to be able to gather this special commission up to 31. And I think that our work in the constituencies, the people's deputies, will aim to ensure that these are the shortcomings in the formation of electoral lists and other shortcomings in order to achieve this week. I told you, there's something else we can fix. And that's probably what we're doing in the districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u130	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u131	Dear colleague! I don't think it's a secret for you that many rural heads have added funds, let's say 500, thousands of dollars and so on. Did the commission record any such cases? And I call the address specific, this is the Gitomir region, this is the Cherkas region, I think it's not the only area. And the second question I wanted to address, not you, but the previous reporter. But since you're standing in the rostrum, I think it's gonna be easy for you. Mr. Davidovich said that the outcome of the election would be known to the sunrise. I think a lot of people already know that today our presidential candidate, Yanukovic, is going to promise to set up the sunrise at 24 hours. Do you think the election summary will be summarized by now or not? And the last. Is the commission going to make any conclusions after that?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u132	I think that the previous informal results of the elections before sunrise will be known, and two or three days, probably at least three days, to get the protocols from the territorial election committees and officially talk about the results of the elections. I don't know how. This may help Vladimir Mikhailovich answer how the Temporary Special Commission will respond to these shortcomings. The thing is, it's supposed to be an operational response and a lot of it will depend on us, I say that the courts will work around the clock, and it'll depend on us how they react. I set an example for you in the Court of Appeal, and a lot of the courts are still in charge, it's not a secret, and that's why they're probably going to make those decisions. But our job is to respond to all violations by addressing the appropriate courts and the appropriate territorial commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u133	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you. Please give the word of Bondarenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u135	Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u136	Dear friends! Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, block of Viktor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine". I think that, Mr. Gregory, you should consider that you have too little rules and more objectively and comprehensively educate against other candidates. I understand that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is in trouble with the election campaign today, but you heard yesterday from the press that the plane is not allowed to sit, the car is not allowed to go when it comes to Victor Yushchenk, that today we have a restraining order in Kiev for his meeting, now trials, a statement by the mayor of Kiev about the introduction of a state of emergency. We also know that in Kiev schools, passports and so forth were collected from children. And that is certainly the goal of not allowing the opposition candidates to pass. So I would like, in summary, when the committee concludes, to be more profound and comprehensive about these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u137	Vladimir Dmitrovitch, against our candidate, is probably no less distress than before Yushchenk, perhaps our fault is that we are less talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-22-m0.u138	Thank you, Georgi Grigorovich. I would like to say that we have a full understanding of our cooperation with the Central Electoral Commission, for which I am grateful to Jaroslav Vasilovich, and to the head of the commission, to all the members of the commission, they work closely with the Supreme Council and with the Temporary Special Commission. According to the outcome of the last session, when this information was considered today. It's the one that's been brought to your attention. I called on the Cabinet of Ministers to support the CTC’s budget for appropriate funding, considering that prices have increased, including advertising. He also asked the local authorities to re-invent the polls by October 31st. And there's also a public address that has to be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. I would like to point out, my dear colleagues, that the commission is a temporary special on monitoring issues, not on the management of institutions that are involved in the electoral process or who are responsible for the electoral process. And we are relevant questions, the main issues related to the consideration of complaints relating to the right of equal access to the media and others, discussed on a temporary special committee and made appropriate recommendations. We cannot or should not intervene directly in the work of other institutions. As for this week, when you're all in the districts working, I think all the appeals that will come, we'll quickly send them to the relevant government authorities, to the appropriate authorities, with an effort to get them to be promptly considered, objectively considered with the provision of relevant information. The question has been considered. In conclusion, I would like to inform you, dear colleagues, of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine this plenary week, that is, from October 19 to 22, 2004. 62 issues of the agenda have been addressed, including 63 bills and 14 draft regulations. As a result of their consideration of 19 laws were passed in general, 19 bills were adopted in the first reading, 4 were designed to be amended, 15 were rejected, 8 were adopted. Well, we've also considered the appointment of judges. The judges were appointed, the judges were appointed by 28 judges, and the judges were appointed by 28 judges. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. I thank Jaroslav Vasilovich for the information he gave to the Supreme Council. Next plenary week, we work in the districts. The plenary session will take place on November 2. Good-bye.
