ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:02:43]] Registered -431 There were 431 national deputies registered in the hall. As for Friday, almost a record number. Dear colleagues, today we have the birthday of Eugene Dmitrovitch Jovtak. Let us sincerely welcome him, and we wish him fruitful success in the field of government. Another application. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, please announce the agreement to join the militia of Yulia Timoshenko, National Deputy of Chichkov. Yesterday, we took an oath to uphold the formality of entering the faction. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. People's deputies please make statements, messages and suggestions. In the meantime, I'll be making inquiries. While the recording goes on, I would like to stress once again, dear colleagues, what you and I agreed on Wednesday that we had 30 minutes for everything. I have 14 pages of your request. So I'll read them, let them know. Let's solve the question problem, the rest of the time left in 30 minutes will be on the show. Please show me who signed up to get their colleagues ready. On the board, please. But you each have your own personal table. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Valérie CONCERNED to the President of Ukraine on issues related to the implementation of Presidential decrees regarding the operation of the National Museum of Art of Ukraine. Please support the request. [[10:05:16]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the violation of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on responding to parliamentary requests. [[BOLOGUE, YVANCHO, MIHOVICH, AND OTHERS Total 12 deputies]] Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council on the insignificance of the liquidation of a military hospital in Lutsk. Well, the head probably doesn't eliminate the military hospital. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Lviv District Public Administration, on the allocation of state budget funds to Lviv district residential and utility buildings that require immediate work from reconstruction and capital repair in 2004. [[A VOLUNTARY, JAVORIAN, TRUST, AND OTHERS. Total 9 deputies]] Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial support for the construction of sociocultural sites for rural Hersonian sites. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine on violations of legislation by the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy in the use of State budget funds. [[COLONIARI, SULKOVSKI, JOSEPHET, AND OTHERS Total 7 deputies]] Roman TAKAČA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a forest management system for Ukraine. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the work of the open stock company “The Bikowska Glass Plant” of the Romani region of the Žitomir region and the repayment of debts on wages and dividends to its employees. Mr. Ivana VERNIDUPOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the repayment of the debt owed by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the construction agency No. 528 of the Open Shareholders Association “Kharkovmeterstro” for the work done on the accident site of the Yaltin Tunnel. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation in the Wallin district medical anti-tuberculosis compound. [[Heat, Kirilchuk, Chevchuk, and others. Total 8 deputies]] Viačeslava ANISIMOVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the temporary starvation of employees of the state-owned enterprise “Pridniprovsky Hydrometallic Plant” in the city of Dniprožinsk. VICTOR KING to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on rising housing prices in Ukraine. Roman TKAČA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of repaying the debt to the state-owned production company Carpathian for the work done for the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Kirila POLIČUCA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen as a result of the delay in the decomposition of land in the village of Dudarkov in the region of Kyiv. Anatoly of KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of construction works at the Taslic Hydroelectric Station in 2004. Mr. Jaroslav JDJIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on gross errors in official statistics. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the environmental situation in the Kozelščina region of Poltav. [[CULCHIN, LEVCUN, GAVRILUK, AND OTHERS Total 6 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problems of the work of the specialist “MAG” company in the processing of worn tyres in the city of Komsomolsk Poltaw region. [[Gavriluk, Gurov, Guriev, and others Total 11 deputies]] Hennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of filling the budget of the Opišnjan Village Council of the Zinkov region of Poltava. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of providing funds for the completion of the construction of the central hospital’s medical complex in a village of the Romanes of the Žitomir region. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the use of measures to stop the monopolization of the fleet-glass market as a result of the one-person acquisition of shares of a closed stock company “The Lysic Glass Plant” as head of the government of the Oschenko Hope, verification of the rightfulness of the establishment of this enterprise by attracting the guilty to responsibility. María MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of subsidies provided for in the 2004 State budget of Ukraine to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the regional and local budgets and the additional allocation of funds to the Tajov region of Zakarpatsk for the removal of citizens from vulnerable zones, as well as compensation for flood damage in 1998 and 2001. Mikoli NOSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on bureaucratic methods of abuse of veterans of the Great Homeland War. Vladimir SIMONOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the withdrawal of the awards of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which marked the Ternopil City Head. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unwarranted increase in tariffs for utilities in the city of Volnovah Donetsk. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the transfer to the Netherlands of the “Kenings Collection” held at the Bogdan and Barwara Hanenkov Museum, only on condition of return to Ukraine of two pictures of Durer – “King” and “Madonna” with the Boimans-van-Beningen Museum in Rotterdam. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of accommodation for the Tamara family, Zamula, in connection with the relocation from radioactively polluted territory as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident to the city of Cherkasa. Vladimir BRONNIKOV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the abolition of the social tax on veterans and persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the gasification of the village of Novokyyevka Calancek Region of the Hersonian Region. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the improper execution by officials of the Carpathian Regional Customs of the decision of the Uzgorod district local court in favour of a limited liability association “Reval”. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for preventing the dismantling of the Moyov sugar plant by a new owner who bought it at a cost of 1 million dollars at a cost of 10 million dollars and the ability to transfer it to a new effective owner. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of CEVK on the mass illness of members of the territorial election commission of Mukacheve and the possible collapse of the election of the city’s head. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Minister of Transport, on the deprivatization and placement of the Open Shareholder Society “Institute for Integrated Transport Problems” to the List of Enterprises which are strategic for the economy and security of the State approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision of 29 August 2000. Vladimir LECHENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the distribution and financing of expenditures to the State budget of Ukraine for capital construction in 2004. Group of People's Deputies to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance in connection with the braking of the draft Ukrainian Law “To amend certain legislative acts concerning the protection of constitutional rights to housing and the legitimate interests of citizens living in cooperatives, shareholders, institutions and organisations” led by Minfin. [[PENALT, HARMAS, AND OTHERS. Total 4 deputies]] Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on the unsatisfactory solution to the issue of granting Bilocerkow's training and manufacturing company of the Blind Unrefundable Financial Assistance Association of Ukraine. Mr Eugene HIRNIK to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on the appeal of members of the Rožnetów District Council of the Ivano-Frankov Region to grant status to the mountain settlement of the village of Petranca. Jury KOSTENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on the draft decision of the Government on the liquidation of the Institute of Postgraduate Education for Workers of the Domestic Service. Oleg PANASOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klav in connection with the bankruptcy case of the Open Shareholders Association Centrenergo. Gregory OMELZENKA to the Attorney General for bringing to justice the directors of the Cremenchuk and Poltavsk district for improper consideration of the MP’s appeal and the Attorney General’s commission to ensure the constitutional rights of Arthur Gerashchenka. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Education and Science, on the pressure of certain officials of the procurator’s office of the Kyrovograd district and members of their families on the teaching team and the management of the Taras Shevchenka gymnasium of the city of Kyrovgrad. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to provide an answer regarding the prosecution of a criminal case for causing Volodymyr Jurchenk serious bodily harm that resulted from his death. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the annulment of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Order of the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil Region of February 20, 2004. John YVANCHO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the disappearance of dangerous radioactive substances confiscated at the Chop Customs. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the failure of the Boguslav District Attorney's Office to respond to the request for the theft, the abuse of power by former Colossian authorities of the village of Šupika Kyiv district during the gasification of the village. VITALIA ŠIBKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Dnipropetrov City Head for violations of the rights of citizens living on the streets of Heroi Stalingrad in Dnipropetrovsk. Andrija SKILLY to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of distributing false information about the existence of a 1.5 - million - dollar trust fund, with the aim of misleading voters. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation into the kidnapping of Andri Wolintz, son of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Wolinz. [[TURCHEN, Taran, LUKE, and others. Total 10 deputies]] Vladimir NOVACA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to fulfil contractual obligations by the Hmeln Association “Novotar” to the Rossosan Rural Council of the Hmelnicka Region for the transfer of land to the organization of collective garden farming. GREGORY OF DEFINITIVES to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on bringing to justice the heads of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, who impeded the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy and gave false information to MPs and appeals for unlawful release from the Ukrainian Armed Forces of Colonel Mikola Seluk and for the use of measures to restore him to military service and to compensate him for the material damage he suffered. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the Ukrainian Law “On Election of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” by the head and members of the Election Commission No.27 of Yasinavat of the Maryan constituency No.61 at the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy on March 7, 2004. Petra KUZIMENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of former employees of the Umman factory “Shivanka”. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection, on the elimination of violations of Ukraine’s environmental legislation at the rental and construction of land in the territory of the Novoselian Rural Council of the Vinick region, and on the involvement of those responsible. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Reform of the Agrarian Sector. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Ministry of Defence for the Construction of Housing in Military City No.43 in Kiev. Anatolysa TO THE Ministry of Emergency Situations and People’s Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the financing of social protection measures against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the elimination of inappropriate poisons. Oleg TJGNIBOKA to the Minister of Justice on the legality of executive conduct and the arrest of the Dneprovska Pravda newspaper. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Minister of Justice, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the failure to execute a court decision and the inaction of the State Executive Service of the Regional Administration of Justice of the Montenegrin Region regarding the disabled and the group of Mary Mankish. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine regarding the use of “Urzlaznica” in the production of “MAG” in Komsomolsk Poltava region. [[Gavriluk, Gurov, Guriev, and others Total 11 deputies]] Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying service of railway passengers in Lutsk. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of assistance for the cochlear implantation of Jani Dovbius. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for the assignment of identification numbers for tax payers to Ukrainian citizens who do not have a permanent residence. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding the violation by the National Tax Administration of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” in part of the failure to respond to a parliamentary request. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the use of State measures to protect the interests of the State against attacks against organized criminal groups on its property, legalization of funds and other property acquired by criminal means, avoidance of the payment of taxes by legal and natural persons in the purchase and sale of part of a non-residential building on Sagajdajdajna Street, which is leased until 1 January 2005 in an open stock company called the Main Information and Accounting Centre. Valentina Seminyuk to the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the release of securities to open-ended stockholders' association "The Shrine". Petra KUZMEN to the Head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, on the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of the house on the street of Lenin, the Monastery of the Cherkas region. Vladimir NOVAK to the Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the case of bankruptcy of a limited-liability company called Ukrmoloko by the Land Court of Lviv. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of Montenegro’s Regional Public Administration for investing in sociocultural objects at the expense of Ukraine’s 2004 State Budget. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the city’s Kiev head for preventing the distribution of national symbols, Ukrainian literature, and music in Maidan Independence in Kiev. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Qualifying Commission of Judges of the Zaporozhye Region for the unlawful actions of Judge Ordjonikidzewski District Court of Zaporozhye Peter Koval. [[ARTHEMENCO, BABURIN, and others Total 4 deputies]] A group of national deputies to the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs for the unobjective investigation of the area under the control of the Air Force in the Lviv region of the Hulagin Act of Boyka, the village head of the village of Rodotacci of the town district of Lviv, and for the unjustified punishment of the employees of the City Hall of Internal Affairs. [[KENDZOR, STRANGE, SCHOOL]] Mr. Kulczynski's national deputy to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of existing legislation in the customs procedure of citizen Calchenk and the unsatisfactory work of the Attorney General's Office and the Prosecutor's Office in the field of reaction and violation. Please form. I've announced it, but I'm asking Kulczynski to make this request right. Mr. Schershon's National Deputies, SAMOPLAV'S VAT "The Crucifixion" on the lack of access to the telecommunications network for the general use of rural rural areas in the Plain region. The National Deputy MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, Minister of Health for the financing of the unfinished construction of the Solotvin Regional Allergy Hospital. All parliamentary requests have been completed. Please show the list again. Please show me who signed up. We have 14 minutes left. Here's three minutes of Lechchenko's unsatisfying answer to his questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Indignant is the bureaucratic-ignorant attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine towards individual requests from Ukrainian national deputies, with basic issues. Here's an example. Already around the year, 350 owners of land and property rations in the small village of Lebedin, in the Korob region of Chernigiv, are fighting local princes for their legitimate right to manage these ponds freely. They want to get their belongings and create a separate agricultural enterprise. The village of Nehayivka, the head of the private agro-firm Nehayevka, is a violent resistance to peasants. And he's supported by the head of the Rising Authority and the head of the Rising Board. This is contrary to the President's decree on the protection of the property rights of peasants. The inhabitants of the village of Lebedin came to me last July as a national deputy of Ukraine to assist them in resolving the issue. And I bumped into a deaf wall. First, I asked Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko with a question. I received a letter of assurance. Again, he was approached from the Parliamentary rostrum, a similar reaction. He had to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine Yanukovitch for his failure to take action on behalf of the government's agrarian bloc to ensure the legitimate rights of the village's inhabitants, and received a write-off at Kirilenko's signature that my request was under constant control. I don't need control, I need specific measures. And here's what the villagers say to me: "We, the 350-dollar co-owners, have to turn to you again, as our question has not yet been resolved: no property certificates have been issued, no property has been allocated in kind. In the meantime, our property is being destroyed and reduced by the head of the Cape. Our petitions to various government offices are written in writing and so on." They're asking you to react. I turn fourth to the government and personally to Prime Minister Janukovic: Victor Fedorovich, in Soviet times, we would settle this issue in a month. Do it now. Let the peasants work on their land. If you can’t, sin is the price of your openness, effectiveness, effectiveness, and responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u3	Yes, please, it's motive lock.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u4	Adam Ivanovich, I apologize. Adam Ivanovich, I beg your pardon, my first request to the President for this request, the agreement exists, practically, with all the factions, we spoke yesterday and today. Please put my request to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u5	No objections? Dear colleagues, once again, Valérie Gabrielna asks the President of Ukraine to resolve issues related to the implementation of Presidential decrees regarding the provision of the National Art Museum of Ukraine. Please support the request. [[10:27:11]] For 304 Enquiry approved. Now we need to make a decision to refer this request to the President. Please vote. It takes 226 votes at a minimum. [[10:27:36]] For 321 Decision taken. The request is being sent to the President. Yes. Please, Shuma prepare Anisima.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u6	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Honourable National Deputies, the deputy faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine has been forced again to draw the attention of the Supreme Council to the situation surrounding the dispatch of appeals by the All-U.S. Open-ended Union with the support of the national producer "Economic Ukraine". [[united]] All levels. A new dispatch was organized in February. The petitions contain props from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and are signed by the Secretary of the United Nations, Andriy Taranenko. And it's essentially an imperative character. What are such requirements worth, for example? The Council of District Centres and Councils must immediately take care of the creation of the "Economic Ukraine" verticals in the areas of subordination to these councils or the rural and village councils of the "Gromads" must immediately contact the Paradise for the sets of documents "Economic Ukraine". No doubt we have a situation of low blackmail and open pressure on local authorities. We have every reason to say this, since it is precisely such assessments of the actions of the All - Ukrainian Open Deputies Association that are contained in the letters of the Paradise heads that have come to the address of the faction. We fully share the fair indignation of the leaders of local self-government, and we state that the actions of the All-Ukrainian Open Deputies violate the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and other laws, destabilizing the political situation of Ukraine. The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine once again testifys: we have always stood in the position of supporting the national producer, but we never support those who, in a noble cause, use dirty technologies to achieve their goal. [[united]] Indignant, too, is the fact that, despite the official denial of headship information in the All - Ukrainian Open House of the National Deputy of Ukraine Krawczuk, the sending organizations continue to issue what is desired for real. Given the magnitude of the campaign and the fact that all the documents sent contain props for the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a reference to Parliament's leadership, directly to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvin, who knows nothing about it, the leaders of factions and a large number of national deputies of Ukraine, the faction states that the actions of the All-Ukrainian Open-Constitutional Union "Economic Ukraine" are discredited by Parliament as a whole. The faction of SDPU (o) requires that the Rules Committee, MP ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should finally find out all the circumstances of the case and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that they assess the actions. And I would also like to hear this talk from Mr. Koval, who never seconded the demands of my speech last time. It's probably going to happen this time, because he's not in the hall again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u7	Please, instead of Loboda, Anisimov has the word. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u8	Anisim, a faction of Communists. Statement by the Communist deputy faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the headquarters of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the United NATO Armed Forces in the Atlantic and the headquarters of the High Commander-in-Chief of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe to ensure support for the NATO operation by Ukraine. On March 17, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Headquarters of the Supreme Commander of the United NATO Armed Forces in the Atlantic and the Headquarters of the High Commander of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe to provide support for NATO operations by Ukraine. The representatives of the majority MP faction and the deputy faction of "Our Ukraine" were actually put to the vote by this vote. The destruction of the Ukrainian state as an independent and independent state. Because no nation can build its sovereignty on the bayonets of the armies of other countries, with a positive rhetoric that does not sanctify this shameful act. Against the backdrop of the actual destruction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the ratification of this document can serve as a classic example that a nation that does not want to feed its army will feed an army of foreigners. But in this case, the people are not to blame. He will draw further conclusions and ask those who have caused another black spot on the backdrop of Ukraine’s recent history. This document, written in essence in Jesuit manner, contradicts the position of the Constitution of Ukraine on the sovereignty and non-blocking status of our state. It is contrary to the peaceful character of our people and to the principles of neighborliness among nations. Under the soft forms of this document, its predatory nature and purpose are hidden, artificially creating a zone of constant tension between the three cousins of Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia. The ratification of the Memorandum not only transforms Ukraine into a permanent range for the Natov soldiers, it transforms Ukraine into a permanent threat to Russia and Belarus. Thus, article 3.3 of the memorandum emphasizes that the memorandum should correspond to the doctrine and policies of NATO, as well as to provide a framework agreement and procedure for the rapid admission of NATO forces into the territory of the receiving State, as well as the granting of permission to allow NATO forces to enter its territory. The ratification of the memorandum took place at a time when we still remember the horrendous images of the Nazi bombers ’ plundering of the flourishing Slavic Christian Yugoslavia - State in the center of Europe against which nuclear weapons were actually used. In this situation, we, the people's deputies, the communists are strongly demanding that the Supreme Council, the President and the Government of Ukraine do their utmost not to allow for entry into force.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u9	Thank you. What happened to the microphone and the Council system? Thank you, sit down, please. It's not up to me, it's how the machine works. Please, we have quite a replacement. Instead of Karnauha Boris Ilchi Oliynik Get ready for Ještenko Petrova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u10	Thank you, Karnauhu and Nikolainka. Dear colleagues! I'm not going to divorce the issue of our soldiers in Iraq, because the point of view of our faction and the entire left wing you know, we were against sending our boys there. I'm just going to add that. The Spanish tragedy is also burdened by the fact that it is not the first, and our helpless grief is not the last. And for such a cowardice, we can only look at the explosions in Spain, not separately, but in conjunction with Kosovo, the New York apocalypse, with the robbery in Iraq, when we once again, by condemning terrorism in any form and for any purpose as an unacceptable anti-civilization phenomenon, we get to the causes of this evil. One of such or not the most important launching mechanisms of fratricidity is the effort of certain forces not only to master the world but also to keep it within their standards. What happened, you can see. It began, in principle, what Hanhington warned of, "The Confrontation of Civilization." Some forces have used the old principle of separation and rulership in an effort to channel the energy of Islam into Slavonicism. As it ends in Kosovo, you see, in the form of Albanian protection, in principle, those forces that support Kosovo's terrorists are now only the deportees of the last Serbs. I'd like to tell you, not for populism, not because we're particularly afraid, but just from a purely humanistic point of view. We need to call off our soldiers, I understand it's not that simple, but the Supreme Council has to make its point of view, as it, to her honour, stated before the bombing of Kosovo four hours before the bombs went off. We have the moral right to give up nuclear weapons, to offer the highest officials of the world society to join us and to begin a dialogue of civilizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Boris Ilchi. The word has the national representative of Peter. And instead of Zarubinsky, prepare Kadenyuk. That's where we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u12	Victor Petrov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Vinnitsk region. Dear MPs, dear guilty countrymen, 60 years ago, a bright holiday of liberation from German-Fashistic invaders came to Vinnichin. On 20 March, the district centre, the town of Vinnica, was destroyed by Soviet liberators. During the offensive on 26 March, the area was cleared from the enemy. On 15 March 1944, part of the 38th Army under the command of Colonel-General Moskalenko came from three sides to the district centre. At all costs, Hitler’s efforts to keep the city under control have not reached its goal. On 20 March, as a result of storms and bypass manoeuvres from the hoses at 17 hours, Vinnica was completely released from the enemy. Almost the entire garrison of German-Fashite troops was destroyed. On the evening of 20 March, Moscow, on behalf of the Family, congratulated our valiant troops. Eleven associations and parts were assigned the name “vinnicki”. This second front was the anti-fascist struggle between guerrilla forces and the party-communal underground, in which the underground regional and district committees of the party played an outstanding organizational role. There were six guerrilla groups operating on Winnichina, which destroyed 24,000 fascists during the years of the occupation, leaving 265 echelons of the enemy behind. The blameless work feat was manifested by the guilty in a brief period of restoration to the ruins of Vinnica. She became the true pearl of Dole during the years of Soviet power. 60 years have passed since those glorious and heroic times, but the memory of courage and virtue, of our Soviet waste of Ukraine, will remain forever in memory of the generations to come. A low tribute to the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the participants in the liberation of Vinnica from the German-Fashistic occupations for their war and labour exploits, for the significant contribution they have made to the great victory over the enemy and then the restoration of our land, the construction of a new happy life. They are still at the front of the fight. Among them is Vinnice's well-known people, participants in hostilities, distinguished citizens of the town of Vinnitza: the Chairman of the Veteran Council of Veterans, General Glasov Vladimir Vasiljevic, Colonel Burennikov Anatoly Petrovic, The Hero of the Soviet Union, Colonel Kostuk Andrey Vasilevich, Maria Mihajlovna Juriev, and many others. Most veterans today find it difficult, not because of their guilt, that veterans are materially and morally humiliated. But you are convinced that you are an example of people who are strong in spirit, dignity, and honor, fighters for the triumph of social justice. Let me wish all veterans, the inhabitants of Vinnica and the areas of sound health, happiness, peace and good, unity and cohesion in the struggle for worthy winners of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u13	Please have the word of the national deputy Kadenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u14	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable national MPs, occasionally in a district that usually appears agrarian, encountering people, encounter a huge number of problems that are characteristic of all of Ukraine. The causes of these problems are both subjective and objective. In 2003, farmers suffered massive losses as a result of their well-known complex climate conditions for agriculture, which resulted in the failure to pay off their loans to banks, timely settlement of wages with people, and the acquisition of fuel-oil materials. Thus, the issue of long - term low - interest loans to rural households is again raised. Unfortunately, the problem with long-term loans has not yet been solved. Although this year’s budget provides for reimbursement of interest on loans received from commercial banks to affected households. But the problem is not solved. Of course, we need to put in practice a state crop insurance in case of his death under different force majeure circumstances. So the state shouldn't leave the villagers alone with the trouble. For objective reasons, I would put problems in the countryside caused by our imperfect legislation. Many problems with earth’s degradation. But the main one is the injustice that exists in this. There is a shadow of those who are involved in despair. Because of this, many of the pie lawsuits involved. Generally, people are not satisfied with court decisions. But what happens is that it's because of the imperfections of the law, and the court can't decide anything. A circle is closed, and the problem remains a problem. Animalism is another problem that needs to be solved at the national level. People want to do animal farming, they ask for help, but they need a targeted program to solve this issue. Many people turn to them after returning their former deposits. People are asked to pay them both for treatment and for repairs or purchases. Of course, this is not a simple problem for our nation. And those 50 bracelets that are paid each year don't solve any problems. Thus, the system of distribution of these funds is far from perfect because it does not take into account man’s age or his primary needs. It's not the whole list of problems in the village, it's hard to determine the priority of their solutions, because I think they're the same, but they need to be solved, of course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consult. He's asking very hard for the word Volintz. I'm putting it in the hall. Who, in order to give the opportunity to speak to the National Deputy Wolin, please vote. [[10:44:47]] For 210 Is there no denying that they should vote again? We're voting again. [[10:45:11]] For 305 Thank you. Dear colleagues, those. Which one of you is helping me and saying 150 votes as a procedural question. There were better times, and there was a rule in the Rules until 2000, before they went to the Ukrainian House. Now any question needs 226 as a minimum. Please, Mikhail Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! Thank you so much for your support and for voting to give me the floor from this rostrum. I'll explain the situation. On March 7th, there was a rather sad case for me and my family, which had a critical case, reflected in both the 7th and 8th, and 9th March, just on weekends. And so on March 7th, at 15 o'clock, 30 minutes at a bus stop on the street of Dniprovska coast, where very large movements of cars, unknown people in masks, in a uniform where Berkuta or Sokola's workers are wearing, my son just couldn't see, they drove on to the Volkswagen car and dragged him into this car, knocked him unconscious and drove him in a car around town for about five hours. Several times he came to memory, at that time there were threats that we had found drugs in you and that we would crush you in prison. Then, after six hours in this condition, he was pulled out of the car with a blindfold and dragged into one of the driveways of the house where he left. While he was being thrown into a car, a plastic bag was put on his head, and it was clear that the abuse continued for all six hours. I don't understand that if drugs were found, why, if they were authorities or militia personnel, why didn't they make a protocol, and why didn't they finish the case? I want to say that to my son 24 years old, he works at the bank as an economist. He's a young specialist who doesn't have enough experience like, let's say, doing some serious banking business, he doesn't do business, like me and my family. He doesn’t drink alcohol except beer or maybe champagne, he never used drugs. What, then, are the motives for this? Nor did I realize that the blood tests showed that there was alcohol while he claimed that he had been injected with an alcoholic fluid into his throat. And all because he had a difficult, critical condition, and that the doctors insisted on taking a ton of the brain, he had a concussion and he was bleeding. And this was confirmed as a symptom, confirming constant fever. I don’t understand why the police didn’t carry out an analysis of what fluid he was being injected with and how it would affect his health. I think it's a little formal for the police to be investigating right now. I'm not a professional on this issue, but I'm still asking your support to have the appropriate authorities join this situation. So far, the matter is being considered according to a criminal case filed by the prosecutor of the Darnitsky district and the Darnitsky RUSS at the place of registration and residence of my son. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u17	Thank you. As you may recall, dear colleagues, today we have sent an appropriate parliamentary request with you to what is said to be the competent authorities. Dear colleagues, today we are having a discussion of the agenda. You have a list of questions for today. I would like to inform you that today all our debts are included in the agenda this week. So the questions that you and I haven't been able to consider on Tuesday, we're looking at today. So the questions that were to be considered today are none of them today. We are guided by the rule of law. There's a draft of the Agricultural Census Act, registration number 4591. Reported to the head of the State Committee of Statistics, Osaulenko Alexander Grigorovich. Please, Alexander Grigorovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. You're looking at a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Census. The main purpose of the drafting of the bill is to create the necessary legal rules for the organisation and conduct of such censuses in Ukraine. The agricultural census is a long-term, wide-ranging, one-stop-shop for the set date of the statistical survey aimed at collecting quantitative and qualitative information on the state and structure of agriculture. First of all, it should be noted that general and thematic agricultural censuses are being held today in more than 120 countries around the world. Usually, the periodicity of the general censuses is once every 10 years, in countries called so - called five - year - olds. The coordination and development of such censuses worldwide is carried out by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, known as FAO. Ukraine has not yet conducted general agricultural censuses. Until then, the censuses were thematic, that is, dedicated to one or more questions. The last census was a census of cattle and birds on January 1, 2001. It is particularly relevant to use censuses for the statistical study of agricultural activities of the population, which, unlike agriculture, do not provide statistical reporting, but at the same time now use almost a third of the country’s agricultural holdings and produce more than 60 percent of the gross output of the sector. The need for the adoption of the Agricultural Census Act is due primarily to the fact that, according to the rules of articles 30 and 32 of the Constitution, there is a need for appropriate legislative grounds for conducting surveys such as agricultural censuses in part of the population. The draft law lays down the legal, organizational, and financial principles for the preparation and conduct of the agricultural census, the relations of its subjects, their rights, duties and responsibilities, the State’s safeguards for the protection of confidential information obtained during the census process, and so forth. Structurally, the bill consists of six chapters and 20 articles, it's in the materials provided, so I don't think there's any need to comment in detail on its structure and content. The adoption of the Agricultural Census Act will allow for the creation of the necessary legal bases for organizing such censuses in Ukraine, which in turn will allow for full and reliable information on the state of agriculture and, accordingly, improve the soundness of government decisions made on its basis. To conclude, in the case of the approval of the bill under consideration today, the creation of European Union-compliant national legislative bases in the field of statistical activity will be practically completed, which form the basis for the laws of Ukraine on state statistics and a number of others. This is going to be serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will there be questions? They will be. While the recording is coming up, I agreed, please, to say that Tuesday's issue, and the Wednesday issue that we haven't discussed is under consideration today. Light up, please. Three minutes. Novak, follow him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u20	I am, of course, quite frankly impressed by your courage to carry out your agricultural census. I don't know what you're going to be doing there, in the state of our agriculture, but I'm very glad we have such heads of state committees, courageous people. Can you tell me, please, are you sure that this census, which will spend a huge amount of money on the state, will produce really objective results?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all. I believe that Ukraine, by integrating itself into world society, should not and cannot fall out of the processes that are taking place in the world. The world round of agricultural censuses is under way. I've already said that it's being held in more than 120 countries of the world, both developed and those that are in the first stage, let's say, development. That's the first one. The other one. A particularly important census in countries where there is great dynamics in agriculture does not matter how positive it is, how negative it is. So this dynamic is very difficult to capture in statistical reporting. That's a second. Third. I've already said this is especially important for people's farms where we can't take this report. We do their tests, but only selective ones that can't give, let's say, completely reliable information. So we just have to do a census to know the real state of agriculture. That's the other thing he's gonna do. That's another topic to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, dear, prepare for Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u23	The distinguished rapporteur, I am concerned about the question not even the organization of the census, and how will the information that will be received be used? First problem. Unfortunately, we have a population that has grown accustomed in the 20th century. If they rewrote, then we'll get another one of those in the form of extra taxes and stuff. And second moment. How protected are we today from misusing the information of this census subsequently for the Silovites, for. After all, it's not. the commercial trade and all that we get when in someone's hands full or sufficient information is collected throughout the industry. That's why I have two questions. If we don't, we're going to run into resistance, because they're going to be afraid it's going to be bad for them. And the second question. How qualitatively will the State protect this information from improper use: by a State or by some other transaction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Indeed, this is a serious question you have asked. Answering the first. We already have a census experience, I've talked about it. For example, we conducted a census of cattle and birds on January 1, 2001. It was. On this subject, it was a complete census, and we saw the population ratio, which in general took a positive view of this work and we didn't have any particular problems, we got the information we needed. This information is really very important for decision-making at both regional and state level on politics in this area. So plus we did a census of the entire Ukrainian population, and we also saw that the population is being positively perceived by Ukraine. and understands the importance of these measures in all these problems that arise. Now for the second one. Again, we have been going through this problem during the Universal Population Census and the problem of confidentiality. It's a very strict norm that's laid down in international law, it's written in articles 18, 19 of the draft law, which clearly states that all materials can only be used for statistical purposes and nothing else. They cannot be required by the courts, the prosecutor’s office, or other authorities to exercise any rights against a person. It's an important norm, it's clearly spelled out, embossed, and I think that's enough to convince the population not to be afraid of this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I give the floor to my colleague Roman Tkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u27	Roman Tjak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter. In principle, I have a question that just resonates with my previous colleague. You have already said somewhere that article 18 states that no one can use this information and that the data is confidential. But in the Criminal Code, article 47 clearly states that a court may require any data. And here's the question that's why you mentioned the population census, but it's a little bit different. You see, when they're doing a census, I'm allowing these people to do a census and they're getting complete information. You know, somewhere in society today, it's about that, and here in our Supreme Council, a bill has been adopted that deals with the taxation of the income of individuals today. You can imagine today, without actually having any money in the village when these data are used to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. I understand the seriousness of the problem you're raising. I want to appeal again to the experience of the U.S. population census, it's been three years. In the U.S. population census, there was a tremendous amount of information that could have been used for, say, the things that you're asking me about. It's been three years. The destruction of the original census documentation, according to the All-Ukrainian Census Act, is about to be completed. Over the years, we have had no precedent for the power or any other structure to try to obtain this information. There was full understanding at all levels of both government and population level that this information was strictly confidential. And it makes me happy to know that I have no doubt that in terms of the agricultural census there will be the same situation. And we'll find an understanding of both the population and the strong structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Alexander Grigorovich, sit down. But there's a difference between the censuses. It's one thing when I get my education, and the other thing is when I get my pig. There are very different things here. Have a seat, please. The committee on agrarian politics and land relations of Sulkovsky Pavlov Gnatovic has the floor for the report. Will you be in three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u30	Paul Sulkovski, Aishtian constituency 154, Equinoxina, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, having considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Census, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for the establishment of legal organisational and economic bases for the preparation and conduct of agricultural censuses, the processing, generalization, dissemination and use of its results and regulates the relations of agricultural census subjects, establishes guarantees for the State regarding the recording of confidential information obtained in the agricultural census process. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Census as a basis. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Agricultural Census Act will allow me to establish the legal basis of the organisation and the conduct of agricultural censuses, improve the quality of statistical information on the state of agriculture and its management decisions. The implementation of this bill will give the organization and the holding of agricultural censuses of public importance, allowing them to be emphasized by socio-economic significance and ensure positive public perception, will contribute to the creation of a positive image of Ukraine in the world. So, honourable people's deputies, I think, for this reason, I would like to advise us to take this project as a basis and to make a second reading seriously yet to work on taking fully into account the proposals on the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, which, indeed, has made a number of proposals, and I am confident that this law will benefit the entire state and that it will not do any harm to our rural worker and the resident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u31	Thank you, Pavel Gnatovich. Wait, they're willing to ask questions. Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Darling, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u32	I would like to make this point clear: it is stated in the law that the person about whom information has been gathered is entitled to be consulted. Sadly, though, the law does not say, but what if a person disagrees? Thus, there is no mechanism by which a person can assert his or her rights if he or she has written what he or she wants. Regrettably, subjectivity can be on all sides in this life. So I have a question: how can the participants or objects of this census be able to appeal and defend their rights in terms of the objectivity of the information they have entered in this census? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u33	Thank you. I think it's important. Such an important issue will not be brought into the hands of people who are accepted by executive authorities who will not be trained by the profession. And really, people have to be professional. And that's why when I think there's such a problem, this issue of disagreement between his census and so on, so I think it should fit in here, I think it's in the law and it's reflected in the fact that we need to study this action, which is the reason why, or whether it has an important basis, for example, that a citizen doesn't want to admit to this census. And I think it would be wrong if everyone wanted to let in -- not to let in and so forth. It's not, I think, a serious, negative, unserious thing to do. I think a smart job will be done, and every citizen of Ukraine won't argue about this job. That's what I'm gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u34	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u35	I think you and I are on one side of the barricade. Of course, this law is necessary. He needs it for a number of reasons. First. No one will raise his hand or his tongue to pay additional taxes on the farmer. Well, we understand very well what's going on in the markets today. There are no net farmers in the markets. And today, there is an absolutely clear meat mafia that trades in agricultural production. Therefore, we need to know objectively what is being done today in the agricultural sector. Moreover, in the future, we and the State must stimulate the individual sector. How do you know how to do that if there is no objective painting? It is therefore necessary to explain to the population that this is not to introduce additional taxes, but to track this sector of the economy, and to stimulate an individual agricultural enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u37	Please, I can't help but say the word to the national MP very much with the agricultural name Bulba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm asking you to pass on the word "Nicolanek" to the Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u39	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter, there is no doubt that the subject that is today by Drjkomstat and the draft law that he is proposing is very interesting. But I am still said to have been in the district recently, and in many parts of Ukraine, I remember the discussion that our law on when we passed the Law on Taxation of the Income of Individuals raised. And there's 13 percent for agricultural farming. After that, we will describe and fail to do as Stalin did — for the tax tree, for the tax cow, for the pig, for the tax, and so on. The voters asked me about it. I said it shouldn't be like that. But as a member of such an agrarian committee, do you appreciate that? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u40	Thank you. I want to tell you, my dear colleague, that I thank you for asking. That we have today, thank God that, at last, I know a little bit about previous committee calls, and that's why the members of our committee are doing everything they can to keep from making things worse for our agricultural producer and the entire village dweller. And so our committee, as a village committee, stands in the defense of our peasant, first of all. And that's why I want to tell you that we didn't discuss so much on the committee, but we did seriously, so this bill is what we think, and that's why our committee has decided that it won't do any harm to our citizens, our villages and our peasants as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u42	I thank you for your attention and call for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! We'll talk about it first. Before the vote, there's still a lot of time. We've got eight national deputies on board. Let's have 15 minutes to talk. Please, Karmazin. Prepare Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Of course, the law that is being considered today must determine the legal basis for the preparation and implementation of the agricultural census and the use of its results, as well as the relationship between the subjects, determines their rights, responsibilities and responsibilities. At the same time, I would like to make sure that it is really the basis for receiving complete, objective, and reliable information and that it is used in the interests of society. For this law to be taken away from the fundamental flaws there is. If the state is going to do a census like this, how can we leave what's in article 18, I'm paying attention to the head of the committee, I'm paying attention to the scientific and expert administration, which has somehow not seen that in article 18, part two says that the primary data of the agricultural census cannot be required by the court, the prosecutor's office, other authorities for the study and use of evidence when dealing with civil and criminal matters or for the purpose of making decisions on a particular respondent. And if this does not change until the time of the vote, I personally commit myself to making a decree that the Constitution is not acceptable. Part two of article 124 says that the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all legal relations that arise in the State. What do we do now that this is now being created, when the earth is drawn up unjustly, when people are deceived? Why are we limiting the law enforcement agencies and canceling the Criminal Procedure Code and the Civil Procedure Code and the Constitution itself? I'm definitely against that approach! I will also oppose the approach envisaged in article 11 for temporary staff to prepare a census for those who have reached the age of 18. This is contrary to the requirements of the Labour Code, article 188, which clearly states that persons who have reached the age of 16. I will definitely oppose gathering by phone, as described in article seven. That is why I would ask the developers to keep this in mind and to reconcile it with part of the third draft of article 27 of the budget code. That is, in the case of the adoption of the bill, its publication by August 15, 2004 can take effect only from January 1, 2005. And this should all be written in the bill. It's Asian, but I have to tell you this because Mr. Janukovic and his apparatus don't want to study the laws and the Constitution. I know it's easier to live by the terms, but it has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u45	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Get ready, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! The Analytical Advisory Council has been following agriculture closely for several years. As a result, agriculture is among the most important areas of production in Ukraine. Ukraine has the most fertile land in the world. Natural crops, crops obtained without fertilizers, are 26 centimetres per hectare at a cost of $40 per tonne. So Ukraine has very big prospects in this direction. But in the state, the land is privatized. 65 rental companies have now been created, 65 land areas are owned by various rental companies. 10 percent of the land is occupied by farmers, 20 percent by farms. In a village of 8 million families, 17 million people. This is a huge army that deals with a small agricultural enterprise and this farm must somehow be accounted for by the Ministry of Statistics, the State Committee on Statistics puts this bill perfectly right as to the fact that it should have quality information about what agricultural production we have. Until now, large farms have been providing their information, and everything that is done in small farms is unknown until now. Small farms are very large. It is known that for the land to produce normal income crops, a certain classification of various types of agriculture is needed. For grain, you have to have more than 500 hectares, for livestock -- over 150 hectares, for vegetable -- more than 50 hectares, for strawberry -- 5 hectares and so on. All of this will come about in our country in the future. But to do that, you have to start doing normal statistics. It is known that the main mass of animal production is transferred to the private sector, but the production of animal products is done through intermediaries. And the peasants are losing a lot of money. So I think that peasants should be protected. This law is supposed to provide statistics, but next to it, we have to create protection for the peasants. The state can't protect the peasants, the peasants can protect themselves. They can only protect themselves by creating special sales cooperatives, which they self - control. When this is done, then this law will work successfully. And so far, I think I want to advise the State Committee on Statistics, give an example of how statistics happen in other countries, particularly in Poland. It'll be better understood.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u47	Thank Igor Raphaelovich. Please, Lechchenka, get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u48	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. In general, under normal conditions, when in a state of stability, when the economy of a country, including the agro-industrial complex, is not in a state of decomposition, but works effectively when all social issues are resolved, the agricultural census is a normal statistical procedure. Sadly, though, things are the other way around in our country today. The bourgeois authorities in their lust to turn the land into an item of sale and thus to take it into peasants in the last twelve years have led the village, agriculture and peasants to a pitiful state. Powerfully destroyed are the most effective and acceptable forms of agricultural production for rural people. Destroyed by years and hard work, a strong material and technical base of these farms. The fearsome handicrafts covered animal farms, machine tractors, and social infrastructure objects with black wings. They are either completely destroyed, or without windows and doors, looking at the world around them with empty windows as a reproach to the masters of all the masters who, to the detriment of the common people, are faithfully serving the capitalist sharks. Our fertile Ukrainian land is undervalued. Those who have robbed workers and wicked methods three times on the man - made mountain had a hard time filling their pockets as the shivers rallied around it to shake up as a victim. bourgeois authorities promote money bags in this regard. They already possess large - scale rural groups of grills, and they benefit greatly from this. At this time, taxes and assemblies, low-priced purchasing prices and crazed prices on resources that controllessly install monopolistic intermediaries in the market, even the newly created so-called "market" structures in the village, different TOVs, POPs, PSPs, and so on. Tax and pension authorities, with the support of the prosecutor's office and the debt police, are taking the last of their livestock, the last of the laminated techniques, which, by the way, belong not to them, but to the spiders. Soon, in most agricultural enterprises, nothing will be copied except debts. In this situation, both the state and the rural population will be abandoned. Unemployment, pennilessness, sickness, alcohol, and drugs make the village of the Ukrainian State impoverished. Part of the peasants, who are younger and stronger, were forced to survive on their own because of the heavy uneducated work in private farms, brought 2-3 cows, 5-10 pigs, birds, but they were again "heated" by the state and middlemen: can you make ends meet when the price per litre of milk in summer drops to 40 kips, and a kilogram of nourishment to nothing worth three? This led to the mass slaughter of cattle in rural areas. The government’s proposed agricultural census in this situation will lead to the cutting out of chickens, geese, ducks, and so forth — no sin. Let's put the order in the village first, and then we'll rewrite it. In general, it is necessary to make a census of the wealth that has been plundered by the oligarchs of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u49	Please, Alexandrovska, prepare for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u50	The best intentions that the Government of Ukraine has recently proclaimed have been a major disaster for the people of Ukraine. It would seem that there was little substantive to say about the intention to conduct statistical studies. Statistics are indeed a good tool for management. On the other hand, practice shows how this instrument works against the people of Ukraine. Well, it's the essence of the law. Who Is to Be Censused? Here, article one defines "household." These are the people who live together in rural areas, in one building, on the same site and are related or not even related. Article 3 refers to the purpose and reasons for the census. And here's the question. In addition to obtaining comprehensive information that can be used for economic calculations, forecasting, planning and so on, this refers to the purpose of obtaining data on small territorial units and detailed combinations of structural units of agricultural activities for policy development at the regional level. Why did that phrase warn me? Because we have already voted with you, unfortunately, against the opposition of the Communist faction, the Supreme Council has voted on the law, and it has entered into force, a law called agriculture. In this law, I objected to this law because it defines all persons who are members of these households as people who are employed. The wording was then adjusted and they were employed at a certain level of income. The level of income that gives rise to the view that they are employed does not appear in that law. Now this census is going to bring the base under that rule. The Cabinet of Ministers will establish this security rule, the rule will be established through this census, statistical data will be obtained to enable this rule to be established. And then people who have a certain income from their own backyard will be considered to be people who work. I appreciate the further reference in article 6 to the periodicity of the census. Indeed, it may be necessary to watch once every ten years, and it may be necessary to watch once every five years. But the last part of this article also states that other thematic agricultural censuses will be held within a time frame to be determined by a government body. This means that, as necessary, the poverty of the people will be reduced to lower and lower levels, until then and as often as the Government will need. I am considering an attempt in this law to establish an integrated system of camping for peasants. I believe that this law requires serious refinement and answers to the questions I have asked here. Therefore, I believe that we must send him on re-reading and seriously refine him. Otherwise, I see a dove here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Please. Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u52	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, with regard to the assessment of the bill that we are currently considering, I am in solidarity with my colleagues that the bill is not in time. When it comes to large accounts, of course, the state and its citizens need to know what to expect from each other. Rural policy must first be predictable. As a former councilman, I do not understand why this law was not discussed at the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. This is not the case without local self - government agencies. The other one. I have to say, I have always looked at how people react to this by taking part in similar census activities. And unfortunately, people don't believe in the authorities. And even though one colleague here said that no one's gonna have a hand up against people, he's going up. And recently, she's with you and she's up in this room when we've been taxing the income of the physical person and then we've come to our senses and we've come back to this bill and we've made amends, but that's not always the case. The other one. When we want to make a census at a time when agricultural production was completely destroyed. And here a representative from the Cabinet of Ministers said that we're in the early stages. Yes, after everything has been destroyed, we begin to be saved and saved at what expense. So let's take extra statistics today, and then we're going to do all of that plus and we're going to see what we want for what's real. Two years ago, you and I had solid agricultural statistics, and we had a food problem, and we scared the whole world off, and we didn't realize where we were going, and now we're looking for excuses. I don't get it in this bill: What is it, an autism or something? Overwrite or fine-tune the data obtained via mail and telephone? It really doesn't make sense where we're going. The next aspect of this problem is how the authorities will try to prove the rightfulness of the census. The role of the media in this matter is not seen at all. And what I want to say is, before you count, power has to help, but not the way that the Hersonian region has helped. Here is my decision to support the recommendation not implemented by the executives, and today they want to count something there. There are no seeds in the country and in Hersonland today, and how can you plant them? And we'll count! First let's help, then let's count. And that's the last of it. I have to say that the faction of Communists and I personally to this law, I understand that he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I would ask, given that we have automatics, the best thoughts to express first, and then to leave everything else you want to say, because, as you can see, you are interrupted by the most profound. Question: The draft of the Agricultural Census Act is over. By voting, with the fate of this, the further fate of this law will be determined on the day of making decisions. There's a draft of the Act on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign. Here are two bills, registration numbers 4526 and 4526-1. Reported to the first deputy head of the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration, Voronin Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill "Renewal of Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, Prepared to Regulate the Legal Status of Persons Deported by National Sign, Establish the Guarantees of the State in Restoring Their Rights, Identify the Powers of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities for Repatriates. A few words about the nature of the problem. In 1991 a Ukrainian law on the rehabilitation of victims of the political repression of Ukraine was adopted, mentioning deportation from national minorities. However, the decree for its entry into force states that this law does not extend to deported persons by national sign. Since deportees are a separate category of victims of political repression, it was decided not to amend and supplement the law but to draft a separate bill. This project is presented to you. The proposed draft law was implemented with the participation of a number of interested executive authorities and had several stages of harmonization with the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It should be pointed out that the draft law states that the rights and legitimate interests of citizens living in the respective territories should not be limited to the rights and legitimate interests of deported persons in the implementation of the guarantees. This allows us to avoid possible conflicts on international soil and prevent increased tensions in the Crimea. State policy in the area of repatriation, adaptation and integration into Ukrainian society is now being implemented according to special programmes approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Yet, despite the efforts of nations that have been under way for more than 10 years, many issues remain unresolved. Yes, in the legal field of Ukraine there are no concepts and terms used in these programs, including the not yet written terms “deportation” and “persons deported by national sign”, there is no definition of who belongs to these categories, which is the order of confirmation of ownership, which is necessary to address the issues of equipment. According to the bill, evidence of deportation is carried out through authorized authorities, since documents that can be used to support the deportation of a particular person are located in places of deportation. And a large number of deported persons who returned to Ukraine for permanent residence do not have such documents. One of the main aspects of the project is that of guarantees and the right to return to their homeland. This right is also recognized in the Bishkek Treaty, which has just been extended by Ukraine for another 10 years, one of the main issues related to the restoration of the rights of deported persons, national minorities and peoples. It is also about the actual payment of at least part of the compensation for damage caused during the deportation period. In doing so, it is not a declarative aid, but a financial framework for the State. In this case, it is an indirect compensation in the form of material aid for recovery, equipment, and development. I will point out that if adopted, the government bill does not require additional budgetary funding, considering that all costs are already in place in three existing government programmes. These programs are aimed at solving the problems of deportees' equipment, adaptation and integration into Ukrainian society, and were funded by 100 percent last year. Of course, the economic situation has an undeniable priority among the main objective factors, which is the basic element of the guarantee of the implementation of the law. At the same time, the constitutional principle of the rule of law, the recognition of human beings as the highest social value cannot be fully dependent on socio-economic factors and the resources of the state budget, but requires the search for different sources of funding. This is what the articles of the bill on international cooperation discuss. The bill also provides an opportunity to respond to changes in the country's economic situation by increasing compensation costs and creating a set of political and legal conditions that guarantee the rights of returnees to Ukraine to participate equally in the political, legal, economic and cultural life of the State. Of course, guarantees for the rights of deported persons are the Constitution of Ukraine. For the purpose of implementing and defining constitutional provisions, it is urgent to establish an appropriate legislative framework. And the first step in this direction is to adopt a bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. Let us ask the Supreme Council to support the adoption of a bill that is essential for the elimination of historical injustice in relation to many of our fellow countrymen and the preservation of international peace in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u55	Thank you. Sign up for questions. Please, three minutes, please. Verni Dubov. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u56	Thank you. Verni Dubov, Sevastopol. Indeed, on 18 May 2004, two months later, we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of one of the most disgraceful in our country of history, the deportation of Crimean Tatars. And thanks to the authors and Kabina and the authors of the other bill, a bill was born. The question of what order? There are a lot of problems here. In your opinion, here's the most pressing problem about the land, is it going to relieve the tension about this issue with this project of yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. As for the land issue in Crimea, I would like to point out that we don't think that these land problems have some kind of inter-national collision. According to official statistics, in terms of self - capture, Crimean Tatars account for only about 20 percent of these crimes, not much of which exaggerates their overall percentage in the entire population of Crimea. Earth relations, if they're not settled, they create tension in any region of the state, regardless of its national composition. And so we think that it's impossible to give any national color to the ground in Crimea. And we think they're going to be regulated by existing legislation on land relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u58	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u59	May I give the floor to the national deputy in the field?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u60	Terrena's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u61	Victor field, block of Yulia Timoshenko. Your Honor, in your bill, you're in great need of a bill, you're talking about national minorities, you're talking about deportation, and you're talking about renewing the rights of national minorities. It's all right. Such normative acts are considered to be the basis. Like, say, the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union or the CPRS, if that was the case, the peoples are considered deported. It's all right. They're national minorities. But there is such a situation that there are also government acts, such as the treaty with Poland, whereas for example, there is an appropriate order by Zhukov and Berija to deport Ukrainians. Is the Cabinet of Ministers going to end up with a bill to recognize the Ukrainian nation as being deported on the basis of those?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. This problem really matters. Because between 1944 and 1946 and 1951 more than half a million Ukrainians were deported from Poland. Their legislative status has not yet been regulated. Although it was a voluntary evacuation under official documents, we have no doubt, and all historians confirm that it was a mere deportation that was carried out by totalitarian acts of violence. This problem, of course, requires a legislative settlement. And a bill has been drafted for the recognition of deported persons forcibly displaced in 1944 or 1946 from Poland to Ukraine. Now, at the request of the government, an interdisciplinary working group has been set up to consider this bill. I think it's after you've taken the interest. In this bill, he will be presented for consideration by the Supreme Council. The Declaration on the Recognition of Forced Displacement of Persons from Permanently residing in Modern Ukraine in 1944-1946 and 1951 is also being prepared by the State party. So this declaration is also going through the stage of reconciliation with the interested authorities and will be presented for consideration by the Supreme Council. The government considers the problem of deported Ukrainians from the territory of Poland to be extremely important, caring for them by fate. And it can be said that the government approved a special plan of measures to honor the memory of victims of forced displacement in 1944-1946 and 1951 from Poland to Ukraine for 2003-2004, including the initiation of parliamentary hearings. And I think that in the near future, all the problems will be major disruptions that will allow the fate of Ukrainians who have been forcibly deported from Poland.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u63	I'm addressing Bogdan Kostinuk, please don't interfere with the session. Have a seat, please. His bill will be reported by the national deputy of Chubarov. I repeat, the time taken for questioning is over. The first reporter carried out his work. There will be questions for the second reporter. Please, five minutes. I'm telling you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u64	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The issue raised for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the rights of persons deported by national status is one of the more relevant to the modern - day Ukrainian State, which has inherited it from the former Soviet Union. It is well - known that in Soviet times many violent movements of large groups of people have been carried out in Ukraine’s modern borders. You can argue and find no common understanding with the modern political forces of the reason, the motivation for such actions in our recent history. But agree, this cannot justify the fact that during all the years of independence, Ukraine’s higher legislative body has failed to adopt laws that would be designed not only to remove the consequences of the former Soviet Union’s criminal acts against nations, national minorities, and individuals in the form of violent expulsion from places of permanent residence but also to resolve the many issues that arise in connection with their return, arrangement, and the need for the restoration of their rights. Presented today for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine both bills aimed at restoring the rights of persons who were deported at national level between 1941 and 1944. In anticipation of your questions, dear colleagues, about the need to restore the rights of other groups of people who have also been subjected to forced displacement under other motivations, I would like to emphasize that for them to be resolved we also need to consider and adopt appropriate laws. At the same time, we need to understand that deportations by national significance, in addition to certain national groups and individuals, have also been made subject to the Crimean Tatar people. We will recall that in the recommendations adopted on 20 April 2000 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of parliamentary hearings on "The problems of legislative regulation and the implementation of the State policy on the protection of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people and national minorities who have been deported and voluntarily returned to Ukraine", it was acknowledged that, quote: "The absence of a clear, complex state policy to restore the rights of the deported Crimean Tatar people and a number of national minorities, the ignorance of legitimate interests and the rights of deported persons raise mistrust among the authorities and lead to increased socio-economic and political tensions in individual regions and the country at large. The purpose of the bill that we are considering today is to define the status of persons deported on a national basis, to establish State guarantees for the restoration of their rights, the principles of State policy and the authorization of State authorities and local self-government authorities." Because I am presenting Bill No. 4526-1 of which is the National MP Mustafa Djemilev and I want to draw your attention, Your Honorary Colleagues, to some of the differences between the bill and what has been tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First. We tried to write more clearly the definition of terms used in the bill. The importance, but at the same time the complexity, of this work is linked to the fact that in the current Ukrainian legislation, such terminology is almost untenable. The other one. Our bill sets forth appropriate rules that provide for specific mechanisms and forms aimed at restoring the rights of persons who have been deported on a national basis and are now returning to permanent residence in Ukraine. Third. The bill, which is proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, lists more fully the powers of government authorities at different levels to restore the rights of persons deported on a national basis. In considering both bills, the Committees of the Supreme Council of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine made a number of comments, including on restitution and land issues, which we will necessarily consider when preparing the bill for second reading. This is also true of the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations is constantly receiving numerous appeals from both the Crimean Tatar people and the national minorities, who have been subjected to violent deportation from Ukraine for a national sign. It is well known that these same addresses come to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the address of many of you. In these speeches, not only do our electorates tell us so much about the suffering and injustices they have suffered but they express their misunderstandings more about the fact that we have not yet been able to adopt a legislative act that would start with a legal solution to the consequences of criminal acts committed against them in the recent past. Hundreds of thousands of deported who returned to Ukraine during the years of independence on their own land yearn for decent conditions for full integration. Society. In May of this year, Ukraine will celebrate the sad anniversary of the 60th anniversary of deportation. So all of them, deported, are waiting, waiting for our understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u65	Thank you, sign up for the question. Please, three minutes, light up. I'd love to get Verni Dubov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u66	Dear colleague, I would like to ask the question asked by the previous rapporteur. You have limited chronology for 41-44 years. As the initiator of the bill, how do you feel about adding more time to the exiles, the same problem that our respected colleague Teren called the forced expulsion of Ukrainians from Polish territory, so that they too will be subject to this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u67	In general, in dealing with the problems of any group of Ukrainians being deported, I'm very and very positive, and I've talked about it. In the past, we have tried so hard to resolve these questions in a single law regarding these categories of deported persons. Unfortunately, these attempts were unsuccessful in this room. I am convinced today that we have to take specific, isolated situations involving deportations from different regions, and we need to solve these problems in this very room through legislative acts. In fact, you have pointed out that these two bills are aimed at solving the problems of those peoples and national minorities who have been deported formally according to those documents on a national basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u68	Please, Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u69	Respected Rephat Abdurahmanović, Ukraine, had in fact made commitments to restore the rights of Crimean Tatars. And if there are these freedoms in the area of return, I mean: the media in the national language and national classes, schools in the field of culture, there are many things being done here. So how do you think this is going to attract the State, first of all Russia or where the Tatars lived for a long time and created a national economy there, by participating in their work to bring them to their reparations for this material damage: the return of Crimean Tatar property? To this problem, in your opinion, can we, apart from the law, maybe this, where we can't prescribe such things, by some other means act?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u70	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. Right away, you feel like you're from a region where these issues are very relevant. If it's very tight, I want to answer that way. In Ukraine today, as a state, we have all the legal grounds, first of all, I am referring to the already mentioned prolongation of the Bisker Agreement, in order to continue to work with the SND member countries, which are somehow involved in the problems of deportation, in order for them to participate in assisting Ukraine in the return of people. And what I'm saying is that this job has been going on for almost 10 years. Regrettably, until we as a nation find a response from our partners, even though the legal bases are and the SND states have made such commitments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u71	Please, Terrence. [[Taran]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u72	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Adam Ivanovich, thank you very much personally. Dear reporter! One second. You're absolutely right when you propose this bill, but I would like to point out that this will support your bill in such detail that the current law on victims of political repression in its 4th article does not provide for deported persons by national sign. And so when the question is that there are social moments that need to be taken into account by those who have been deported by social political signs, this is not the norm of this law, so Chubarov did what he could do, but, Rephat Abdurahmanovich, would you please tell our parliament what you would like to have our Parliament hold even a hearing on the problem of deported Ukrainians? There's so much that our Parliament hasn't done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I'm very frank and I'm just sure if we vote for that option, and I urge you to support the option prepared by the National Deputies and we'll work for the second reading, which is when this bill is filled in for the second reading, I'm just sure that we'll come up with almost one more bill to solve the problems of those other major categories and large population groups and primarily ethnic Ukrainians who have been displaced from their territories. And such attempts on the part of our committee have already been taken here and here in this room, but unfortunately, then they didn't find such a great understanding either, but I just said, this is the first step towards the great work of restoring the rights of all the people who have been deported from the territory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations of Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council has already had considerable experience in examining the question of the renewal of the rights of persons deported on a national basis. As early as 1991, when Ukraine’s legislation on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine was considered and adopted, the issue of political rehabilitation and the restoration of the rights of deported Crimean Tatars was widely discussed. Even in the preamble of this law, a category of persons displaced in forced order suffered. Since then, various laws have been proposed that directly or indirectly refer to the restoration of the rights of the deported Crimean Tatar people, but none of them have been adopted. The situation in Crimea and Ukraine is known to have generally stabilized, but the legal regulation of the fate of the deported remains unresolved. Moreover, it becomes more and more acute. The sharpness, primarily because the Crimean Tatar people, understanding and together with the Ukrainian people, are experiencing in their own time all the difficulties of forming a young state, is no longer understanding why now that the situation has stabilized, the issue is not being resolved. At a time when even neighbouring Russia has a number of legislative acts to restore the rights of internally displaced national groups and peoples. In this regard, I would like to remind you that on April 20, 2000, the Supreme Council conducted parliamentary hearings on the issue of legislative regulation and the implementation of State policy on the protection of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people and national minorities who had been deported and voluntarily returned to Ukraine and accepted appropriate recommendations. The recommendations noted that parliamentary hearings demonstrated inadequate legislative regulation of the process, as well as the low effectiveness of the practical measures taken by the executive authorities in resolving the issues of return and placement of deported persons. In particular, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that steps be taken to develop and adopt laws related to the implementation of articles 11, 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It's been four years, as the Russian say, "and now the train is there." Dear National Deputies! Today, we have a unique opportunity to raise the issue from a dead point of view, to adopt in the first reading the Law on the Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, which shows not only the need to restore historical justice but also to give due courage and patience to the Crimean Tatar people who have suffered so much distress and suffering. Finally, at the legislative level, declare to the Ukrainian society, the international community, the neighbours of the North and the South our national position that the Crimean Tatar people are an integral part of the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian society. The State understands and cares for its preservation and its right. On March 10th, at its meeting, the Committee considered both bills and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Djemilev and Chubarov, taking further account of the draft legislation submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like the Ukrainian people's deputies to support the committee's decision and to adopt in the first reading the bill proposed by the people's deputies Djemilev and Chubarov. And the questions that are being raised by the national MP, Terrence. They're perfectly right, and, really. We also need to have a law on deported Ukrainians. But here's the word I need to say my government of Ukraine and not delay the drafting of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. Three minutes. Please, Gunner. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u77	Dear Gennady Josephovich, I understand the problems and I feel for the problem of the Crimean Tatars and the problems of the Crimean peoples in general, but please tell me what was the sign of my mother being evicted in Siberia in the 40th year? What was the sign of my father being placed in the Stalin concentration camp in the 40th year? What was the sign of deportation from Ukraine in the 48th year? And so on. Why are there such time limits? After all, the Soviet Union, which covered all these matters, was not a Ukrainian empire. Germany owed its debts. I don't mind adopting a unified law on compensation for the deported people, but primarily for the Ukrainians. But it is time for us to present our claims to those, including the Communists who carried out all these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u78	I'm addressing you and everyone, so let's not politicize the very difficult question. We've been deported. It was not possible for the regime that existed to deport the entire Ukrainian people, but only a part of the Ukrainian people was deported, and including your father was deported at the national level, because he was Ukrainian, that was first of all. But I urge you, let's rise above, let's decide the fate of this miserable people. 260,000 returned to Ukraine, a working nation, a nation that makes and makes a significant contribution to the rebirth of Crimea economically, socially, and so forth. This is the purpose of this bill. The President of Uzbekistan, Karimov, is the one I associate with my colleague Vernidubov’s question, the President of Uzbekistan personally told me what a huge contribution the Crimean Tatar people made to the development of culture, economics, science. He says: “We have great respect for this industrious nation, and it is a pity that they are moving in from Uzbekistan today. And we have to contribute. And they suffer economically that they have left Uzbekistan. They can't sell their houses, well, and a lot of related questions. So, colleagues, I absolutely share your philosophy, your practice, but let's take the first step now, in parallel, we're working on legislation on deported people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u79	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich, I'd like to make a presentation here on two questions. The first question is still about the Bishkek Agreement. Russia has never ratified the Bishkek Agreement, unlike Ukraine. Why and how Ukraine's actions will be in this direction so that Russia will still participate in the ratification and enforcement of Crimean Tatar rights. Because that would be a lot. And most importantly, I think we need to find out that the Crimean Tatars have done a lot to make this law in the hall today. But unfortunately, Ukrainians who do not yet make up a minority in Ukraine have done or did little or nothing in this room and beyond to ensure the rights of people who have been forcibly displaced from Poland by national signs. These people are now illegal, they can't return anything, restitution doesn't work on them, it doesn't spread, because they're not recognized as displaced, forced displaced in Ukraine. I'd like you to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u81	Dear colleague of the school, I would like to stress once again about the deported Ukrainians. We get hundreds of letters, hundreds of references, why the Supreme Council doesn't make decisions about deported Ukrainians. It's a very sharp question, it's an urgent question. But let's do the draft laws, let's do it. National Deputy Terrence, other national deputies have made a very simple proposal: let's hold parliamentary hearings. And this Parliament has rejected this proposal. What are you talking about? And we'll see how much our Parliament, how many national MPs can rise above the political preferences and finally determine the socio-economic rights and deported Crimean Tatars. But with them when I spoke of deported Crimean Tatars, but with them were deported Germans from Crimea, Bulgarians, Greeks -- all those who were of any other nationality were deported under the butterfly. And this does not apply only to Crimean Tatars. Let's take one step. We listened to a very interesting speech by Mr. Voronin, and he said that the State Department is drafting this bill, and we're going to be looking at it in the Supreme Council. I urge you not to mix these two ideas. The fate of the Ukrainians, at least our committee, is as disturbing as the fate of the Crimean Tatars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I don't think you'll mind if I give you the opportunity to ask the question of Zari Katushev. Please, it's Katuszevi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u83	Katusheva, the Communist faction. You know, that's my question. Now here in the hall, I think it's just that my colleague made a careless lineup, he said it was the 18th birthday. It's not a celebration, it's a grief, it's a terrible date. But I have a question of this nature: I would very much not like it to be a problem for my people, I speak in this language. Right now and as a Crimean Tatar and as a communist, and for me, these concepts are completely inseparable, I would very much not want my people to speculate on the problem. Law, undoubtedly, necessary. And if we adopt this law only by the date of deportation, then the price of such a law. The law must be adopted so that it does not undermine the interests of all those living here in our country. It is only a law that seeks peace and stability in our Power, not a national one. To the extent that this provision is taken into account in Kabminovsky, it is peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u84	First of all, I would like to point out that you have not heard the word “60 years” in my speech. And we are considering this bill without referring to this tragic date in the history of the Crimean Tatar people, in the history of the Ukrainian people, because the Crimean Tatar people are part of our nation, part of our nation, of the Ukrainian nation. And we don't link it to the 60s, but we link these bills to the need to regulate the fate of the Crimean Tatar people. Next. In my statement, more faithfully, I said in my answers to the question that there was no need to stomp on different nations, different nationalities, to solve the Crimean Tatar problem. And I constantly urge, let's rise above our political ambitions and resolve the fate of these people who have suffered so much for their return in the struggle to return to their historic Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have 45 minutes left to discuss this issue, and we have another 9 minutes of 45 seconds. So, please, nine minutes to talk. The word is given by the national deputy Soboljev. Get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u86	Dear Chairman. Honorable colleagues, in general, consider what question we are considering. Question of deportation by national sign. It's just a matter of thinking about the cynicism to which the regime was meant to deport entire nations, hundreds of thousands of people not for crimes committed, although the other question is whether citizenship and the state could be deported for crimes committed. But deport for a national sign. Think about it. And when the Communists are trying to answer this question right now, I have a question about just the morals of these people who are sitting in this room right now, and allowing themselves to sit still, realizing that they have the blood of those who have been deported from this state by a national sign. Think about it! The other one. At the time when Hitler deported people by national sign because they were Slavs, Ukrainians, Jews, at the same time were deported by another national sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u87	Please discuss the subject, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u88	Don't interrupt me, I'm acting by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u89	I'm right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u90	You have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u91	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, I remind you of the rule of law under which the chairman has the right to make a comment to the speaker if he does not speak on the subject. We're not discussing the political issue of deportation -- we're discussing the law. Please, I'm making an observation on the basis of the law. Who. Can you give us five minutes of time, please? Three minutes to talk. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u92	You're not the one who's talking about it. And I'm speaking on the subject. And that's why let me say it. Now the second one. This law is only responsible for the consequences of what happened, without responding to who should be responsible for the fact that hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatars, Crimeans, and representatives of other nations were deported from Ukraine. This law does not answer the second question: On what basis have hundreds of thousands been deported in 1939 - 1940? That's why I have the next offer. I am very grateful to the drafters of the bill for raising this question. And I would suggest the following: to support in the first reading the bill introduced by Jemillo and Chubarov, but on the second reading, to take into account all the suggestions that have already been made on the subject and are still being heard in the speeches. And the last. At the time I was born in Zaporozhye, and Zaporozhye was an area of obsession for Crimean Tatars, and they were not allowed to go back any further than Zaporozhye. The only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u93	Please, Bezpali. Get ready for Kenzior. I repeat, Bespalium, please Kendzer. I'm in control of the Rules. Insomnia, please. You talk on the subject and no one will take it away from you. The line is at the end. Unburned from the spot, please. I'm not going to give you the opportunity. I'm not going to give you the time limit. Incorruptible, will you be performing? Yes, please. Come on. I gave you my word, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Allow Bespalloma to speak. I'm where I am. Yes, Bespalani, are you speaking or not? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u94	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the law is of no concern to anyone. There is a problem and there is a very acute problem, as has now been seen from the situation in the hall. Is this problem acknowledged? She's confessing. Is it a solution? It's not a solution. That's why there's so much tension. And this is confirmed by the parliamentary hearings that took place on April 20, 2000, "The problems of legislative regulation and the implementation of the State policy on the protection of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people and the national minorities that were.".. Members of the parliamentary hearings then examined them and noted that the State was unequivocally condemning crimes against the nations and national minorities who had been subjected to violent deportation and supported their desire to return voluntarily to a place of historic residence. At the same time, parliamentary hearings demonstrated an unsatisfactory legislative solution to the process and indicated that the Crimecatatar problem was one of the most acute problems associated with the fact that out of the 280,000 deported persons who returned to Ukraine at the time, 270,000 were Crimean Tatars. So the problem is, and the problem is not solved. So the bill is just necessary. I would like to point out that other peoples have also been seriously affected by deportation, and I want to apologize for not being able to give them a full list, and I would like to pay particular attention to Ukrainian citizens of German origin whose civil rights have not been fully restored this year. The problem is also close to the Ukrainians because they are also a repressive nation. And today there has been a lot of talk about this, especially about the question raised by the national MP Terrence, and when, according to the ethnic sign from Poland, the Ukrainians have been deported since 1944. And so far, these people are the orphans of the nation. Parliamentary hearings were failed when they were proposed, and they were failed by the same Communist party and by the majority of the majority, who are now reluctant to resolve the issue and respond. So I think it's not just a question of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine, it's a question of the entire Ukrainian people. And we are simply obliged to accept now the bill tabled by the people's deputies Djemelov and Chubarov, to thank the government for paying attention to this problem, to return immediately to the problem of Ukrainians deported from Poland, to hold parliamentary hearings. But we cannot thank, in this case, the venerable Adam Ivanovich. who uses the chairman's rostrum solely for communist propaganda. It's not good anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Don't get excited, everyone's right to say what they think, even what they dream. Please, Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u96	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Adam Ivanovich, I understand the discomfort of the situation you're in, but that doesn't mean you have the right to interrupt and shut down the Ukrainian National Deputy. Dear friends! Indeed, a draft law of extreme importance is being considered today. We know this problem very well, we understand who should be involved and how this problem is being solved today. Ironically, today both the Crimean Tatars and the Ukrainians in Crimea are truly second - class people because we understand the condition of the Ukrainian part of the population that now inhabits Crimea and under which the Crimean Tatars are present. For Crimean Tatars today, there are no earth blocks, and at the same time we understand how the Ukrainian mafia is buying coastal areas of the Ukrainian Crimea. So this problem and these problems that go in parallel, these are problems, actually, of the Ukrainians themselves, we have to solve them all together today. I agree with how a person who was born in western Ukraine knows what turned out to be Soviet power in Galicin and what happened to large ethnic groups of Ukrainians as a result of the conspiracy of the dictatorial regime of Moscow to neighboring Poland. And these questions also stand in the order of the day. But today, when we discuss the law, and if God gives it to us, we begin to solve the terrible problems that the former Communist regime has left us. We realize that Ukraine today alone cannot solve this problem. And if in Ukraine the Ukrainian authorities would, without a doubt, use both the SND and the Bishkek agreements, they would have made it, they would have turned to the world public, so that, in the first place, the successor of the Soviet Union, today's Russia, as it were, would have put its basic costs in place for those peoples that it had evicted back then. So I propose to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm simply asking you to remind me of the rules of the Rules. Article 3.3. Part One: "The speaker should speak only on the matter from which he was given the word." Article 3.8.1 part one: "At a meeting of the Supreme Council, the speaker shall not use abusive speech and obscene and abusive speech, call for illegal and violent action. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right to warn the speaker of the inadmissibility of such statements and appeals or to terminate his statement and, in the event of a repeated violation, to deprive him of his right to speak at the session in question." Please, page 40, read carefully. The replica. Who's from the faction? Katusheva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Yes, Mr. Sobolov, sit down. Yeah, there you go. Judging from the statements made today by such lords as Sobolev, no one gave him the right to solve the problem of my people. The law is undeniable. But today's statement, such as Sobolov, tells us that some don't want to solve the problem of my people, but they want, as a sign, just how.This is a solution to this issue in order to confront us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, that's enough. Each of us understands how difficult this question is. No one gets a replica anymore. The question is closed. The questions will be taken on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, I want us to adopt this bill. If you want, drive so that it can be accepted. You weren't the only reporter, I'm sorry. Please, Chubar's minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u100	Literally 30 minutes. I really want this law to be passed. I don't want his politicization. And the factions that want him to be accepted will be demonstrated next week by voting. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry we're taking a break. But we usually have a lot of questions on Friday, and there are many different questions, many who want to speak. So let's work quickly. There is a bill to amend some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the settlement of property rights. Registration number 3085. Consideration of the simplified procedure. Reported by Czernowetské Leonid Mikhajlovich. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished radio listeners, Our Ukraine, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Darnicke electoral district, Leonid Chernovetski. I would like to remind everyone who will decide on my bill, that all my bills, they are in any way related to the word "freedom" and the economic and any other. The point is that in the field today, by abuse of their rights, local authorities have come to the point of being so absurd that, for example, a person should have a thousand bracelets, he is hired by the JEC to hire a law firm for utility payments. [[It's also about my bill.]] Here. In order to get him out of his apartment, he makes a contract with a lawyer for 20,000 bracelets and presents such an amount to that unfortunate pensioner. And at the end of the day, his apartment is sold, he's thrown out like a dog, out on the street, no matter how much he's involved in the war. And I'm afraid I've had enough cases in my district. The law I propose is very simple. Today, there is a wild norm in the law, which is as follows. If any Ukrainian citizen should have at least one penny in his budget, that is, he did not correctly indicate in the tax declaration, the worker or the farmer, how much he earned there, or whether it was a bourgeois or anyone. All his property is currently under arrest. And what will happen to this property is for the people's deputies and for all, only Allah knows. I don't really have the data that they're still doing with him, but the fact that it's being used by effectively unscrupulous officials to keep accounts in the political fields is what I guarantee you. When you see this law, you have no doubt about voting for it or you won't. He doesn't protect capitalists or anyone in particular. He's just ridiculous. In my law, I proposed that if a tax payer had to pay a bill to the budget, his property would be arrested for two bracelets. That's all there is to it. Actually, I have a very interesting idea. I'm asking you to support my VAT bill. Well, listen, it's got crazy money all over it. Well, back him up in the hall, we voted him out. And pensioners pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u103	Please have a seat. It's already a matter of another bill. We need to speak on the subject. Yeah, who's from the committee? Yes, please, Baby, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! This bill, submitted by the people's deputies Chernevski and Poroshenko, has been considered by our committee and has been supported. But the committee has its own, let's say, supported in the first reading, proposed, but its warnings are such that the adoption of this law destroys the mechanism, let's say, the collection of taxes. And there is a threat that the budget will not be replenished. But at the same time, the rights of the author or authors of the right that today there are problems that Leonid Mikhajlovich has been talking about. And the committee's proposal is to adopt it on first reading, but very carefully on second reading, take into account all the proposals of Minfin, the proposals of the DPA, and they propose to consider the bill in the context of the problems raised by the authors, while at the same time avoiding budget failures. So, final word, I've given you the committee's decision and the warnings that are there. And the fact that Leonid Mikhailovich has a revolutionary, I know, so you can give him your final word, he wants his law passed. It's all right, it's his wish, but at the same time we have to think about the country's budget. I made a statement to the committee, it's not for the information of Chernevski, it's not for me. My view is that the bill is standing, but it needs to be looked at very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Do those who are registered insist? Please, Karmazin. I can't see Yavorowski. Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u106	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reputable Ukrainian people. Today, you all suffer from what is done by the tax authorities and where it is done unjustly. So I would like to thank the authors of this bill and the authors of this bill, Peter Prashenko and Leonid Chernewick, who have really grasped the essence of the problems that are happening in society. I also thank the committee for showing understanding, National MP Tsushko: to support in the first reading. And I just don't understand why the committee thinks that when they act legally, they're in violation of the budget. Because there's an illegal amount of money, because the companies that are illegally broken down, which are now being destroyed by thousands of people under the circumstances of what's going on right now, what's the name? It's immoral, it's going to benefit this state? What, did it go down when the sugar mills got cut up as a tax return? Do you see what we've done? How many more of these companies are there? The project therefore proposes to amend the procedure for paying off taxpayers’ obligations to budgets and government trust funds in this law and to the Law on Bail. It is envisaged that the right of the tax authority to withdraw, under the Act on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and to state trust funds, property in the tax bond is revoked. The bill proposes that such an assembly be carried out solely on the basis of a court’s decision. Article 124 of the Constitution part two says that it is only by the court that all legal relations and disputes are resolved. The prohibitions on the removal of this pledge without a court’s decision will allow the court to make a judicial decision, more faithfully, by order of the court, allowing for a judicial decision on the issues arising from the tax collection by the tax authority resulting from the default of the taxpayer’s tax debt. I want to tell you, honourable national MPs, I want to tell my voters today that if we're being held by a left-hand car with vodka, under-taxation goods and so on, that's what UT-1, "1+1", "Inter" and all, all the decent channels are reporting right now. When I applied to the tax administration that 9 million bottles were installed by activists of the Party of Protectors of India. It was a composition that was illegally moved to Odessa and then fraudulently everything was camouflaged. I got the answer from the tax administration that "it's all good, it's a beautiful Marquis." Thank God for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Solomon. Get ready, Gunnery. Give me three seconds and then you'll give me back.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u108	I'll finish thinking. Well, thank God, the Attorney General's office has violated a criminal case, police, 9 million bottles. In the Gitomirsk region, there was a forgery. Well, no one said it on any of the channels, because we need to tell them who's covering for Kiev. That's not what they want. I ask you to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for these 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u109	Please, Solomon. A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u110	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out from the outset that our faction will not support this bill. I want to say a few words to define and argue our position. What does it mean to refer the question of how to make a pledge solely on the basis of the court’s decision? You and I have once and for all in this session hall and beyond announced that our judicial system, which is in a state of reform, when the courts are depressed, when there are such undesirable phenomena that they even talk about from this rostrum, when the courts are filled with lots of cases and they are unable to deal with these cases, when these cases are usually tried from the local court to the appeals court and even to the Supreme Court for years. And add that to the courts. I understand the authors of this bill, I understand that they think they have some important influence on these courts, and they're trying to use this bill in this mess to solve their problems. So, honourable voters, honourable fellow MPs, let's be honest and honest in determining the essence of this bill. Behind him is something that actors have not been announced from this rostrum. And at the end of the last sentence. Dear colleagues! We have once again encountered you when a bourgeois democracy tries to solve its far-out issues with attractive slogans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u111	Please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u112	The miner, the valley constituency, the faction of our Ukraine. Deputies! Dear voters! It appears that the issue has matured and, above all, it has to do with the low efficiency of the institution of the flag, which is confirmed, inter alia, by the fact that the tax debt is actually growing and the implementation of the pledge is usually carried out in very selective order at metal prices. But the authors of the bill need to determine what they want in principle. Because what the reporter, the respectable Leonid Mikhailovich, refers to his Bill 2447, which really proposes to limit the size of assets that may be in a tax double amount. The proposed bill does not propose that. And if we're looking at the proposed bill, it really eliminates the tax return as an institution, and the realisation of the property of this tax return suggests a court order. This is a perfectly normal, civilized process. I will allow myself to disagree with the previous speaker, for when it comes to the imperfections of our court, the greater reason we can talk about, to put it mildly, the prejudice of our tax administration and especially of the tax police, as evidenced by the numerous attacks on it not only on business structures, mostly opposition deputies and generally opposition officials, but even on the authorities, as evidenced by the epoch of Ternopil. Therefore, I believe that the proposed bill is appropriate and must be adopted in the first reading. I don't know, at least there's no published warnings on Minfin or tax. Obviously, if they are, they should be discussed in a second reading, and this law should be adopted in the first reading in further processing. In general, there is some doubt as to the possibility that the bail could be eliminated, since on voluntary grounds there is a mortgage that is voluntary, it can continue to exist. And about democracy. bourgeois or something is a bad way of ruling, but it's much better than that communist terror and that communist regime that we talked about in the last few questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Wait, please. From the DPA Cabinet, one minute, please. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, would like to point out that Law 3085 repeals the tax system. It's a very big problem. And in order to make the right decision, I draw your attention to the fact that all the amounts in the tax bond are tax liabilities, are agreed upon with the taxpayers, which he has to pay in due time to the budget. First question. The second question. Even after a tax debt is incurred, the law provides for 70 days for the payer to pay off the amount of the tax debt. In addition, those who are subject to this tax debt are involved in describing the assets involved in their assessment of obligations. And it's only after that that the legislation of the regulated processes comes into effect with the famous taxpayer of the property being auctioned. That is to say, it is completely destroyed by the bill's tax mechanism, which calls into question the arrival of payments to the budget of unscrupulous taxpayers. In this regard, a request is made not to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u114	Please give me a minute for the reporter's closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished representative of the tax administration. I want all those who today, whom you come across, not to do with anyone, to be forgiven in our difficult times and the imperfections of our democracy, to do whatever you want. But you're not telling the truth. It doesn't ruin the tax system. And why don't you confuse the deputies, the tax return stays, I'm talking to two people, so why don't you answer my question, tax stamp, arresting every citizen's property, everything he's got. Isn't that right? Oh, well, tell me, in this one, that's not true, I'm going to bring you to trial. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ There's not a single fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u116	Tell me, I'm not telling the truth. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ For one penny, it's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u117	Oh, come on.Oh, my Are you kidding me? So I'm telling you with full responsibility, I've proposed a normal tax institution. Well, the lie is that it's something. And you're a good man, you're just saying, God help me. You will be arrested along with your tax returns and obligations. Or you think you're gonna lose it. Don't bury yourself. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u118	Question completed. With his future fate, we will be determined on the day of the vote. So let's move on to some pretty important issues, so let's mobilize. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons. Registration numbers 3718, 3718-1, 3718-2, 3718-3, 3718-4. Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. Project 3718 Rudkovsky Dmitry Alexanderovich reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u119	Dmitry Rudkowski, 91st Bilocerkow constituency, deputy faction of Trudova Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past ten years, there has been no solution to the issue of the elimination of imbalances in the size of the pensions of members of the armed forces and of the members of the military and the primary members of the internal affairs bodies. Those who have been released before 1997 still receive a pension a few times less than those who are being released today. The only reason was that there were no different kinds of allowances and salaries that were in place today. Equally acute is the question of the proportion of pensions of former military personnel, depending on which power structure they were released from. This is due to the recent adoption of laws that have significantly increased the level of pension insurance for military intelligence officials, Derzkomcardon, court officials, and prosecutors — all state officials. Why, for example, should the conditions for the assignment of pensions be worse for the armed forces and all other military forces. Because valid legislation clearly defines military service as a public service of a special character. I want to give you an example of the fact that today the flag is getting a bigger pension than even the former Secretary of Defense, Lieutenant General Morozov. That's not fair. That is why I have drafted and put forward in order such a bill that excludes double standards in the calculation of pensions in the force structures, establishes a single basis for pensioning and aims at eliminating imbalances in the pension insurance of military personnel, creating a single legislative field under state rules and principles, in the establishment of a social and economic justice pension among military pensioners of all military formations of the state military organization. The bill was drafted in strict compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and with valid legal acts. Most of the conclusions from this consideration are positive. The Supreme Council's own committees supported the draft law and recommended its adoption as a basis. I mean, I didn't support the Cabinet of Ministers, Minfin. They say there's no money. This is a question that needs to be resolved because it is mature and needs a solution. With a view to establishing social justice and improving the attitude of Ukrainian citizens toward the higher legislature. Please support the bill. This is a real confirmation of the concern for people who have dedicated their lives to the ministry of the Fatherland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The next bill will be reported by National Deputy Zubov Valentin Sergiyovich. I can't see. Then, please, Bill Kadenuk Leonid Kostinovich. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kadenyuk, 205 district. Chernobyl area, NDP faction. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 April 1992, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants and the First and First Composition of Internal Affairs Authorities. The changes and additions made to this law have improved and improved its standards since it became effective. Along with the ten-year practice of applying this law, many of its regulations and standards are now outdated and do not comply with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the international treaties concluded by Ukraine and other states in the field of military pension. The imperfections of the pension system of military personnel and their counterparts are severely limited by the law of this category of Ukrainian citizens. As evidenced by their analysis of Ukrainian legislation in the last 8 years, the general principles of law, namely the principle of justice and the principle of legality, have been violated. As a result, the aim and end-of-life objective of the bill is to progressively implement the principles mentioned in the Ukrainian legislation, to further improve the pension system for military and internal affairs officials and members of the internal affairs and some others, to settle issues relating to the payment and recalculation of former military and law enforcement personnel assigned to them. The bill is designed to improve the system of national legislation. Most of the proposed provisions of the draft law are detailed, are rules of direct action and do not require the establishment of an appropriate mechanism for their implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers. It strengthens social security for the parents and wives of deceased or deceased or missing military personnel, who have since January 1, 2005, planned to provide an additional pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. A mechanism is in place to calculate pensions for a more extensive circle of persons. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Justice, State Tax Administration, State Border Service, and other central executive authorities. The Ukrainian legislature fully supports the draft law. The Cabinet of Ministers supports this law, but taking into account its comments and suggestions. According to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance, 1.3 billion dollars are needed to implement this law, of which more than 1 billion dollars are needed to eliminate the imbalances in previously assigned pensions. The committee has considered this bill and proposes to support it to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u122	Thank you, we heard Bill 3718-2. Bill number 3718-3 is reported by the national deputy Krutz. Nor is it. Please, Bill 3718-1, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u123	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. The bill has its own history, and I'd like to put it here. The Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Civil Servants, the Chief and Military Staff of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons was adopted on 9 April 1992. During this long period of time, the law has had many changes and additions that have improved its content in order to provide social security for those who are subject to the law. Sadly, however, the principle of social justice is still being violated for those who retired after the adoption of the law. As a result, the irregular amount of pensions that leads to a case when a person who held a position and had a military rank below, but who retired after the adoption of the law, receives a virtually the same pension, and sometimes more than the person who retired before the adoption of the law and had a higher military title in the same position. The size of pensions for members of the military service and members of their families assigned in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Staff of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons is regulated by the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Since the defence of the army, maintaining the high moral spirit of the army, is one of the priority conditions for the establishment and development of a strong, independent state, the issue of social security for military personnel is of paramount importance in this context. What is the purpose of the law? Relevant changes to article 43 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons" are proposed in order to establish the principle of social justice, equal conditions and order of calculation of pensions for all military formations, as well as the leveling of pensions for persons regardless of the time of release or retirement. I would like to stress that this bill has been drafted, not only supported, but also worked with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, because in principle, it replicates their desires and aspirations that they would like to see in the amendments to the bill. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that this bill can be adopted as a basis in the first reading. I ask you and you to be accepted in the first reading, and later you can be complemented, added, and so forth. I'm going to say that the opposition to this is the Cabinet of Ministers. He says too much money will need it. We have the Cabinet of Ministers always computes a person for what he costs, his fate, how much money he has to spend on securing his rights. Therefore, despite the protests, we need support, for these people deserve our support. They did their duty honestly and conscientiously, and no matter when they retired, they had to get equal from the State. Thank you for your honest and conscientious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u124	Bill 3718-4, please. The rest of Igor Ivanovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. We've been really paying a lot of attention to pension issues lately. Yesterday we had a very serious discussion in this room and, of course, it will take quite a while, because we were never able to find the optimal solutions to this problem in Ukraine. In particular, I would like to say that until now we have not made a single law regulating the retirement of all our pensioners. So far, we haven't limited the external limits of pension insurance, and so far, the difference between pensions can be 10, 20, 30 times, which is completely groundless. By the way, I've put in a bill where the pension limit should be somewhere in the area of four subsistence minimums, and I think we're going to talk about it with our ministry. Regrettably, the new law didn't make the pension much better either, and we talked yesterday about government regulations, including Decree No. 1378 and others, which really didn't contribute to our pensioner's finally being able to get, in fact, a decent pension. When you talk about this particular bill, it's really hurt by me as a major MP, because there's a lot coming to me at the voter's table that's been cut down, that's when you're in the army. Unfortunately, in my opinion, this part is really seriously deprived of pension insurance, because we need to understand that it was the State’s fault that they lost their disability, that they lost the ability to earn money and support their families, and of course the State should accordingly strengthen their social protection. So today I want to tell you that these people are going to get that kind of pension. The first group will receive 106 bracelets, for example; the second and third are 89 bracelets. Imagine if an army disabled who has lost his job could survive, and who really has serious problems supporting his family and himself, can he survive on such money? Of course he can't. That's why we're proposing to increase pensions to this very category of people with disabilities who have lost their jobs while serving in the army and attach it to the same amount as the minimum of living, because it's the minimum of living today that best reflects the need for retirement. And after retirement, these people fit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u126	Thank you. I'm addressing representatives of ministries and departments, other bills today, besides that, there won't be any. So you can be free. Please, who's from the committee? The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Bulba Stepanovich, will report, please, for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine First of all, what I want to do is analyze and evaluate all the bills, and I want to draw attention to where this particular problem of the imbalances in the pension insurance of military personnel came from, more faithfully, military pensioners. It came up with thoughtless, perhaps well-thought-out decisions by the senior management, including the President, the Commander-in-Chief. They are that, let's say, the President of the preceding elections in 99th year, by his decree, increased the salaries of those who served, which led to pension imbalances compared to those who had been released until 99th year. The other one. On February 23, 2002, the parliamentary elections again raised the level of financial security for those serving, affecting once again the level of pensions for those who had been previously released and for those who had been released since January 1, 2003. The pensioners were, of course, forgotten about the census. As a result, this is the situation. To date, Kabmin’s efforts have created a situation where the basics of the pensions of military personnel are not the basic components, but the introduction of all kinds of allowances, sometimes illogical, questionable. For example, two examples are for a job that provides for access to state secrets. That military man, we remember, can't be military unless he has access to State secrets for some reason or other. Or for continuous service and so on. And so this is, let's say, the basis for the pension is 465 dollars for the colonel, and with all the supplements, 1714 dollars. So the supplements are three times larger than the base. And that's why it's entirely fair for General Rudkowski to ask the question of taking into account all of these allowances and the additions to the financial security that would be taken into account when determining the size of the pension. In this respect, the Bill of Julia Timoshenko essentially recalls and essentially corresponds to the Bill of General Rudkowski. I believe that, and the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept them and offer to unite them into one. With regard to the Croat bill, the National MP, this rule could be included in a bill that more broadly identifies problems and solves problems, this is a project by Kadenuk, Bulba and other people's deputies. They could also be taken into account and united into one. Regarding the bill of Igor Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u128	Add, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u129	Regrettably, there are many inadequacies about and disagreements with current legislation. For example, a pension is offered to determine, not according to the minimum wage, but according to the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum wage. It seems to us that, for now, inappropriate, more faithfully, relevance is and logic is, but then we need to write more detail in this bill. I've informed you essentially of the position of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u130	Thank you for the clarity of the military report. That's the way we'll work when we do it. Discussion. Short-term procedure: two for, two against. Please, Karmazin, Yavorowski's gone, Sinchenko's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u131	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, the Party of Protectors of India has repeatedly called your attention to the inadmissibility of the state that has taken place today with the provision of military personnel. We have repeatedly addressed this issue to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the President of Ukraine, to the Council of National Security and Defence. Sadly, the question is in the way it is today. And it is a good thing that today a few of the authors who reported paid attention to these questions. And I said, well, the point is, here's how many of these bills are, much by measure, and they complement each other when I start studying, they don't contradict each other. But you have to take some one complex, more complex, more comprehensive and better written bill as a basis and then complete it. In this case, it seems to me that the authorship should not be excluded from the other deputies; they should be united. For this to happen, there must be common agreement among all, and this could be done before the vote. You've seen that there's no antagonism between these bills. And there's really an absolutely abnormal situation that's happened today with pension insurance, when people who have been released before the introduction of so-called presidential allowances, other allowances and so on, who have substantially changed the size of salaries and the size of pensions, they are now in worse shape. A paradoxical situation. Those who have been through a war are now receiving fewer flutters. I'm sorry, that's the right thing to do. Of all the bills, I don't want to offend anyone, I would vote for them all, but I just don't see a way out of the situation that is now, the legal way out, I emphasize because their four bills. I believe that the most prepared, the most well-founded, is Bill 3712, which was introduced by the people's deputies Kadenyuk, Bulbo, Simonov. But on the basis of this bill, I think we can build this whole complex completely. And I'm talking to the government. Dear government officials, I don't know why you didn't send Hotch to me today, and I think there was at least a Deputy Prime Minister here. It's a complex, very important question. You'll find money for your army and your veterans if you don't want to feed someone else's army. We don't want to feed a foreign army. So we're going to accept that and make you finance it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u132	Thank you. That's how you didn't pay me back. Please, sonny. He's been followed by the Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u133	Respectable People's Deputies. We can only welcome the intentions of my colleagues and the committee for finally addressing this most serious issue. It had to be decided for a long time. Because the nature of the allowances given to the soldiers was discussed here, with a sharp, earlier question. It is generally said that these allowances are unfair. Well, imagine, 100 percent in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In 1996, the United States of And in what country did officers serve in 1995, 1994? I'm not saying that it wasn't just economic before, it was a political mistake for people. In the end, in the end, and in the future, the Generality, of course, of course the President had an election, whether or not he had any other additions to the cash content. They appeared “for secrecy”, and others appeared there. In short, the wild situation is now. Therefore, it must be said and noted that, at last this January, the President, signing the Decree on the Concept of Humanitarian Social Development in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, explicitly states: “Introduction, the introduction of the level of pension insurance for retired military personnel in various years, members of hostilities, families of deceased military personnel, in line with changes in the financial security of military personnel in the service of the Armed Forces.” [[As a task]] I mean, put everyone in the same position. But do all the bills put forward here do so? I'll tell you what, they don't. Unfortunately, the law is palliative, i.e. it holds out, well, for some part of the soldiers it decides, and for the main mass it still leaves behind. So, I suggest that all the bills are normal, all of them are good, but the point is that they need to be brought together once and for all. If that State is not in a financial position right now, we can develop a mechanism of implementation, not immediately, but at some point, but the issue needs to be addressed once and for all, rather than stretching it, one category, the second, third, extracting from the context the whole main, global task. That's what I have to offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Shurma. The rest I don't see in the hall. No one insists on those who are written down? Then we'll finish on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u135	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The issue of justice in the pension security of retired military personnel is exacerbated every year. The introduction by the Ministry of Defence of various types of allowances for military salaries led to the fact that senior military pensioners receive pensions much lower than their younger colleagues. Former military seniors are no longer able to work, and young retirees are generally able to receive not only a more decent pension but also a salary. Military pensioners are people who are active, and they don't want to tolerate that kind of injustice. The number of court appeals becomes dangerous, and the social tension among veterans continues to increase. Improvements and additions require a number of outdated provisions of the law in force, so without regard to budgetary constraints, a fundamental reform of the entire pension system of soldiers should be initiated immediately. The number of bills devoted to the improvement of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Supervisory Military Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons shows not only the social significance but also the political importance of the issue. In considering the proposed bills, we cannot help but notice from the outset that the most serious of the scope and content of the work was carried out by the authors of Bill 3718/2. [[authors - Kadenuk, Bulba, Simonov]] Not only does the law eliminate disagreements and contradictions and inaccuracies of the law in force but it also strengthens social guarantees for citizens covered and extends their circle. It can't be said that all the other bills don't have rational grain. But some of them show not only the wish of the authors to really bring about the pension system of the military, how much the desire to light up, how much it is for the voters to be involved in solving the complex social problem. Of course, the implementation of any of these bills will require a large amount of government funding, but you can do it in a step-by-step: first by putting into effect those positions that do not require additional costs. In further processing of this issue, it is desirable to support the bill, and the faction will support 3118/2. For the reason that the implementation of the project’s provisions will allow for the strengthening of the level of social protection of members of the armed forces, the members of the primary and the lineup of internal affairs and some others, to remove conflicts in this area of legal regulation. Of course there are shortcomings, but once again we say that by removing them, we will support the bill of Bulba, Simonov and Kadenyuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u136	Thank you. Question completed. Decision-making will be determined, taken on the day of the vote. Now we're going with you to consider the question, "It's different," which is what the hour is spent on. Please fill out the list. Let me see. Yes, please, Solomon. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, at the request of the Anti-War Committee of Ukraine, I have to make a statement to citizens, civil and political organizations of Ukraine. March 20 is a year from the beginning of the United States and Britain’s aggression against Iraq. At this time, it is sufficient for everyone to understand the fairness of warning the antiwar committee and the progressive international community of the inadequacy of the accusations and the declared objectives of this war to the real motives of aggression and its results. This war began without the consent of the UN Security Council and against the will of most nations in the world. This war began with the deception of the world’s community and world thought, and until now it has been a lie. The aggressors were unable to find any evidence of what the Iraqi government is producing, preserving and threatening other countries with weapons of mass destruction, that Iraq seems to support the Al Qaeda anti-terrorist organization and was involved in the events of September 11, 2001, in New York and Washington, which the Iraqi people are only waiting for liberation. It has already become clear that the real motive behind the occupation of Iraq is the efforts of the United States, Great Britain and the transnational corporations behind them, to establish their control over one of the world's most oil-intensive regions, and to establish a dictatorship on the world energy market in order to preserve the existing system of prosperity of a bunch of dominant countries at the expense of the rest of the world. I mean, the goals of this war are useful and shameful and have nothing to do with the declared struggle for freedom and democracy and human rights. The real motives and consequences of the aggression in Iraq have made this war a shameful part not only of the aggressors themselves but also of the so - called peacekeeping forces of other countries, including the Ukrainians. There are, unfortunately, Ukrainian troops among them. Therefore, two factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have made a corresponding statement that they are drafting a decision to recall our military contingent from Iraq. [[faction of Communists and the Socialist Party of Ukraine]] The Anti-War Committee calls on all citizens of Ukraine, all civil and political organizations, to participate in an all-U.S. anti-war campaign in March 2004. Including calling on the Chinese to participate in the march of peace that will take place tomorrow, Saturday, March 20, in Kiev at the Independence Square at 12 o'clock. We will unite our voices under common demands: to stop the war and occupation of the people of Iraq! The peace of the peoples of the Middle East! Occupyants, get out of Iraq and Palestine! Ukrainian soldier, return from a disgraceful war!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u138	Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch, Communist Party, has the floor. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u139	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. This year, Ukraine is facing a serious test - the election of the President. In Kirovgrad, the campaign has already begun. In the meantime, intimidation and violence began. The bourgeois power, hearing sin for what is done, and as a result, is a low image, with a beast's rock, has been involved in clearing the way for a long stay in power. And along with the mayor of Kirovograd, Chigrini, they began their dirty work from the hospitals of Kirovograda. They're taking out the bad people because they only have to have their own people there, because they're closed areas where they can do anything in elections. The first blow was taken over by the head of the children’s hospital. The Horatio, who is the third-time member of the Horsoviet, is a respected colleague of mine and of the common people. But after many years of successful management of the Horatio hospital on the verge of dismissal. As a result, he was hospitalized with a pre-farct condition. Thus, there were a number of others who had been placed in a common ditch of events. In the past year, the hospitals checked the various commissions a little over 77 times. Clearly, it did not contribute to the work of the community. A group of children's hospitals are outraged to death. They're ready to start a protest action right up to the hunger strike. A well-deserved doctor of Ukraine's 4th Tkac hospital, a well-deserved doctor of the 1st hospital of Speedhod, a doctor of the family of Sorokin, a doctor of the 1st city hospital of Stašok, a doctor of the 3rd hospital of Golikov, and others, suffered the same ingratitude. We have witnessed, over and over again, the implementation of the dirty anti-national policy. It is clear that all these shameful receptions are used by the current authority to establish a dictatorship in various regions. Let me give you an example of the word of the doctor's indignation: "Who could believe in such an impossible, incredibly wild and disgusting society? Who could seriously imagine that after leaving the workplace, a doctor takes part in an act of protest requiring normal working and living conditions? It's very scary to live in a country where yesterday you were talented and smart, and today you suddenly turned into a fool and ignorant, and you're being thrown out into the street." It's amazing, but in our country, it's a fact that doesn't require an explanation. Today, in all spheres and at all levels, the ball is ruled by the ferocity and poverty of the same thought, the idea of wealth and power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u140	The word has a deputy, Carmazin, to prepare the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u141	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Ukrainian people, Mr. President, I'm going to address you from here because I've been denied permission for several years. And, God sees, I'm going to tell you right now what you might not want to get on the air. This may not be what other people would have wanted, but I am addressing the Secretary of the Council of Security and Defence of Radchenk, the Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Igor Smisko. The circumstances that took place a few weeks ago in the city of Iliziewsk with the application of special units of the Security Service cause serious concern in the population of Ukraine when even representatives of the Central Security Service of Ukraine were banned from taking legal action to eliminate smuggling in the city of Ilchievsk. The territorial units intervened personally according to the direction of the chief of the Odessa district office. That's what legends are about right now in Odessa. I would like to see a service investigation conducted and severely punished by those who prevent corruption from being tackled at the highest level. I would like to draw the attention of the leaders and the President of the State to the fact that, since November 2003, shares have been transferred to the private property of the Ukrainian Security Service, the former KGB of the Soviet Union of Odessa. There are 14.3 hectares, 1 hectare [1 ha], 0.9 acres [0.9 ha], at the market value of $30,000 in the United States for one hundred dollars. I have a project, I have, more faithfully, an investment agreement to build housing in Odessa and a reconstruction of the Odessa sanatorium. This reconstruction is to be carried out by people close to Santa, who are now building a U.S.-European Joint Distribution Committee in Odessa. I'm worried about what's going to happen with the service today, and I'm worried about when this deal is going to be number 19/1-52, which I'm going to send to the Attorney General's Office and to the head of the Security Service to be able to have such an agreement in general and to be in harm's way in the area that we're exempting from taxes, all of which are made of equipment. With the help of the city council, other corrupt things are being done. I'm asking you to direct my speech to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u142	Thank you. The word has the national MP of the Cloud to prepare Sherka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u143	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, the President's message begins with a chapter that says about the formation of society, that the primary task of political reform is to strengthen democracy, to turn democratic processes into irreversible beautiful words. But they sound like great hypocrisy, lies, and blasphemy if we associate them with what is happening in Ukraine. It's like Orwell's 1984 novel. The criminal oligarchic and dogma regime has undergone a massive attack across the front on the growths of democracy and civil society. The regime seeks to destroy local self - government, civil society base, and real democracy, as evidenced by the removal from power of the legitimate leaders of Mukachevo in Zakarpatta, Mr. Petovko, the head of the city of Red Light in Luhansk, Lukyanenka. Repeated attempts to remove the heads of the city of Vasilkova Valerija Popovic in Kiev Attempts to remove the head of the city of Ternopol Bogdan Levkov, head of the Lviv district council of Sendak. The brutal pressure of the criminal regime is exerted on all the heads of local self - government authorities who try to serve their communities conscientiously, not to be obedient puppets of the criminal regime. Measures are under way to deprive our citizens of objective information. It's in this key that we need to consider removing Radio "Freedom" from Radio "Trust," closing Radio "Continent" and at the same time removing transmissions from the FM-range of the German wave "V.V.S." Polish radio, public radio. Pressure on printed media. For example, attempts to smother the independent newspaper Kremenchuk News Bulletin. Pressure on independent journalists, death in mysterious circumstances recently by journalist from Poltava Yuri Chechk. Terrorism against public activists and members of their families. Yes, well-known events, the brutal beating of Michael Wolinz Andrew, son of the Independent Mining Trade Union. Recently, the secretary of the Ukrainian City Company, Mariupol Fomenk, was kidnapped for trying to help create an independent trade union at the Austal factory. It's taking place at a fast pace at all levels by the largest organized criminal group that's seized the name Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u144	The word has the national deputy Shirko - "Our Ukraine". Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u145	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine", town of Raven. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say what you've been looking at recently. You were talking about pensions for soldiers who are still alive, and I want to remind you of heroes who have fallen to the ground. March 20 is 60 years old as one of the chief commanders of the Ukrainian rebel army, Vavček, was killed in the fight against German invaders. [[Alexa Noise]] A hundred under Wolf’s command have fought a host of victorious battles against German invaders and NKVD gangs. One of the most important operations is the destruction of German General Viktor Luce, the head of the Nazi forces, who vowed to put an end to the Ukrainian resistance movement. It was so, on May 15, 1943, the UPA special opa “Vengeance Police”, under the command of Alexia Shuma, ambushed Kovel-Brest near the village of Cortelis. As a result of a short but intense battle, General Luce and his headquarters were eliminated. On March 20, 1944, a small division headed by Vovczak in the Lukovich district of Ivanničiv was confronted by a column of motorcyclists in the 16th tank division of the SS. After the shooting, the Germans retreated, but the wolf was seriously wounded. [[Alexa Noise]] The fighting brothers buried their commander in the village of Jaskovich in the Ivannichov district of Volin. And on Sunday, March 22nd, at 12 o'clock at the grave of a true hero of Ukraine, patriots will be gathered from the surrounding areas to honor the great warrior's memory of the will of the land. And to some pro-Moscow politicians who block the adoption of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army Act, I recall, the UPA, unlike the red commissioners, did not co-organize or send bread to the Third Reich. Unlike the Bolshevik command, UPA did not conduct the schools of future commanders of Wehrmacht, including the execution of the U.S. And along with the fascists, the UPA did not conduct advice in Brest, but the invader beat and paid thousands of sons and daughters to prevent Stalin’s planned hunger strike in Ukraine. Praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u146	The word is made by the Oliynik People's Deputy, Our Ukraine. Prepare Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u147	Olinik Petr Mihajlovich, 125th Sokal constituency, Viktor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! We have sent a letter from the Lviv Region to the President of Ukraine: "Dear Leonid Danilovich, we, the Ukrainian National Deputies, elected from Lvivščina, address you as the guarantor of the Constitution, the guarantor of human rights and freedoms, the citizen. The situation in the city of Lviv and Lviv is contrary to all the rules of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the Constitution, and current legislation, so it requires immediate intervention. We receive numerous complaints about pressure, wrong actions, calls for the protection of people from the cruel political regime. The systematic destruction of the economy, the lack of basic protection of the population, and the cynicalness of the authorities have led to incredible consequences. The persecution of political beliefs, the ban on professions, the rise in criminality with part of the law enforcement system, the destruction of freedom of speech, basic free competition, the enforcement of strong structures of government orders, have led to a deep crisis and public outrage. During the years 2003-2004, there has been a systematic pressure of power structures on members of all levels of the Council of Lviv, particularly on the head of the siege of Michael Sandak and other deputies of the Lviv District Council, the City Council, district councils. The Attorney General's Office, the OMC, the management of the government, the tax administration, the purpose of their action is to change the legally elected head of the district council. Today, members of their families are removed from their seats. Similar events take place in the city council of Lviv. The destructive impact not only on the MP’s corps but also on investment attractiveness, free enterprise, resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs, a sharp decline in social standards. Mr. President, when you were in Germany, you were able to see what our customs office required for cargo processing and VAT returns from the company. Your reaction was brilliant: In Stryu, in the presence of Medvedczuk and Kozak, you solved all the questions for the protection of a foreign investor. We hope that you will respond in a similar way to the actions of the authorities who have launched a large - scale repressive car in a national business that wants to pay taxes to the budget rather than to the pockets of officials. The entrepreneurs of Lvivščina are forced to create the International Business Association. The immediate destruction of the law - enforcement system prevails. You released the previous head. For weak coordination in the fight against organized crime. And now dozens of militias are leaving the police today because they refuse to do political orders. And the distribution of the Prime Minister's funds in the Lviv region also shows that, with political motives, the funds are allocated only to Bolshevik districts. We demand that you return as a guarantor of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u148	The word is Michael Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I wanted to draw attention to a number of serious problems discussed in the media and, as always, distorted, unobjectively and, I would say, lyingly. It is said that the Supreme Council of Ukraine recently passed a decree on a moratorium on the verification of the media. In the news media of the Presidential orientation, the language is in such a way that President Leonid Kuchma has supported this initiative, but we still have neither the decree nor the relevant document, but we have only a so-called commission to stop the tests. You understand very well that a specific document is needed for health workers, firefighters, and health workers in order for this situation to be stopped when the media are closed because of the tests. So I want to tell the radios. The position of the 4 opposition factions who, along with the leadership of the Supreme Council, made this decision and the ruling, was supported by the President, but the President must not only declare but also sign the decree to make this position clear and clear. The same declarative position, I would say, is largely a lie about the situation of printed media. The government of Viktor Yanukovič, the first of the independent governments of Ukraine, withdrew VAT benefits from the printed media. All government officials are officially backing what needs to be paid back, but no one is doing anything. Moreover, today it is stated that, until changes to the Constitution are accepted, no one is going to make changes to the budget in order to recover the tax on all domestic printed media. Unfortunately, the situation of the closure of the media, and not only in Kiev and the regions, and not looking at false declarations again, is still ongoing. The story from: Carnations very clearly show how the media will be closed if there is no proper response. An interesting story is now happening to the police. The more the authorities say about the order in which they work, the more the people who work here suffer. I've been approached by a group of militias who are talking about, as soon as the President has declared that there should be order in the militia, there's a situation now: Private militias are talking about how they should order, buy themselves a new form for 2.5 thousand dollars, they should deposit it in the appropriate banks. We have two and a half thousand dollars in the Cherkas region, for example, at the Resources Bank, and then they're going to give them a form. In the militia, as you know, they don't produce fuel, they have to make money on the road for that fuel and stuff. Just like Yuri Carmazin said on the TV. The U.S.A. does not allow them to do their job today, but they do involve in the political problems of listening to, investigating opposition. So I would like the authorities to return the B.S.A. and the police to carry out their duties and to engage in politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u150	Mikola Nosenko. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u151	Mikola Nosenko, Ukrainian Communist faction, Chernigovishte Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Today I want to draw your attention to the difficult situation in the labour market that has been found in mass unemployment especially in the rural population of the Chernigian region. Thus, in the past year, 11,000,400 people in rural areas have become unemployed, 40 percent more than in 2002, filling and without them a huge army of unemployed Blacks. The situation is particularly complex in the Barvensk, Gordnian, Prilyutski, Rybkinsk, Mensk region. The reason for this is now understood by everyone -- the consequences of notorious rural reform. In recent times the problem of military employment has become acute in connection with the new government’s military reform affair. In 2003, the lists were listed and 1,600 military personnel were released. In the current year, 760 Montenegrin military personnel have been released. The situation was even more complicated with the adoption of the Supreme Council in the first reading of Act No. 5101 "On Reforming the Armed Forces of Ukraine", for which members of the presidential majority voted almost unanimously because, as a result, more numerous lists are being prepared to reduce military personnel. In view of the circumstances that the main masses of their families have remained homeless, unemployable, and the liberation goes with the constant violations of the rights of military personnel. One can only guess what such action will lead to from the Ministry of Defense. Another problem of the modern-day job market in Montenegro is the quality and competitiveness of the labour force. 46 percent of vacancies are not filled due to the absence of non-working citizens with the required profession and qualifications, a third due to the low wage, and 12 percent due to default. The number of university graduates registered in employment centers is increasing. Because only half of them get a job. At the same time, the labor market lacks doctors, feldshers, pharmacists, and construction professionals. The relatively small percentage of unemployed people employed by the employment service is neither satisfying nor changing the situation globally for the better, for the roots of all these problems are primarily social ones. We Communists demand that the authorities take immediate measures to eliminate unemployment in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u152	Igor Šurma, get ready for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u153	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Statement by the Lviv district organization "We express deep concern and indignation about the events that took place on February 29th in the city of Lviv County. During the public meeting of the district with representatives of the "Our Ukraine" bloc, there were representatives of the people's deputies led by Kendzior, the head of the Sandak District Council, the deputies of the District Council of Kurdzhinski, Kanivec, representatives of the law enforcement authorities at the initiative of the People's Deputy Kendzior, committed unlawful acts against Orest Bayek, the head of the Rudatack Village Council, the secretary of the urban district organization of the SDPU(o). During a speech by the head of the People's Movement of Ukraine, in which Kenzior, in an unethical and brutal form, expressed his claims to power, Baek tried to express his own alternative to the "our country's" position on the political situation in Ukraine. In response, Victor Yushchenk, a representative of the democratic political party bloc, abused the status of the national MP, demanded that law enforcement officers remove Baek from the hall, using harsh force. Representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs forced the head of the Pediatric Village Council to leave the premises, causing him bodily damage. To your right, I'm telling you that this person is in a very difficult condition today at the cardiological center. It's right in our Ukrainian language, as you say. The man came out of this room with an elbow beating. This is what they do in democratic Lviv. SDPU(o) draws the attention of the public, the representatives of various political powers, to the fact that provocations by representatives of "Our Ukraine" to the address of the United Social Democrats of Lviv, have become a common phenomenon of the political life of the region. In the face of the slogans of freedom, expression, and democracy of political life, our Ukrainians, beyond that, display better qualities of political intolerance to another opinion. We think February 29th in the city is straight and straight. Continued democracy in our Ukrainian language, which has been evident since September 25, 2003, when he was not given the floor at the request of the national deputy Shurma. The Lviv district organization SDPU(o) is outraged by the position of the head of the Sandak district council, who, under his mandate, would stop fighting, taking into account professional and corporate ethics. Instead, Sandak did very democratically, moving himself away from the problem. So he's trying to keep his position occupied. We appealed to law enforcement agencies, and the law enforcement authorities brought responsibility to the guilty. The Lviv organization of SDPU(o) requires the leader of Our Ukraine, Yushchenka, to offer public apologies to the head of the Rodatian Village Council of Oreste Bayek for the actions of individual deputies. I also address the President and the Prime Minister, put an end to what is being done on the district council. The K.R.A.R.A. Act, falsified district council decisions, is a permanent state of normal life in the district council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u154	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u155	Vladimir Novak, faction of Communists in Ukraine, Hmělničina Dear colleagues, the problem that I would like to raise is extremely relevant today when large industrial complexes are being privatised in Ukraine. The wave of privatization of sugar factories has caused irreparable damage not only to Ukraine’s economy but also to the socio-cultural sphere. Everyone knows that almost every sugar plant has its own home, a club, a kindergarten, a medical unit. Usually, when privatizing a so - called efficient manufacturer who buys it for no price, only one thing interests him — the equipment on which he can earn his capital or, as is often the case, cut it in scrap metal, which he gets a huge barrel for doing so. The main effect, as we can see, is the profit that has been generated for decades by whole generations of our people. What about a social sphere that simply cannot exist without funding? This new owner is not interested at all, and so is the state. This problem is said to have been thrown off her shoulders. Here's a specific example. In my name came a letter from the Hero of Socialist work Svijolov, who worked for 53 years as a cameraman for the Kamyanec-Podil sugar plant in the Hmelnicki district. Here's what he writes. "We had a very beautiful house of culture where there was a library, a sports hall, a cafeteria, a music school, a lecture hall for 100 places and a cinema for 500 places. Privatization is here. The factory changed the owner. In 2003, I quit my job, and more than 400 people were unemployed. And the robberies began. In the House of Culture, windows were knocked out, all sports equipment, film equipment, instruments of two spiritual orchestras, carpets, tracks, pianos, and costumes were stolen. In an unknown direction, even a chair was taken out. Now it's all taken away, the ceiling is cut, the pipes are cut, the tiles are beaten, the wiring is cut off. And no one can help us. And we created all of this with our work." Here's a letter. And you, your respectable colleagues, well know, report to yourself that this situation is not just in this business, but in Ukraine. I'm talking to the law enforcement agencies, and it's time to stop this vandalism. Such objects, which have a general social and cultural purpose in privatization, should be transferred to the property of city and district councils and asked for their purpose. I think it would be appropriate to give an assignment on the premises, to conduct an inventory of such objects and property that is still there. We are not rich enough to dispose of property created by the work of a number of generations of Soviets and to hand it over to a bunch of Glytes for looting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u156	Vladimir Leschenko has the word to prepare for the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u157	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. It is gratifying to note that the political reform in Ukraine was staged by the communists as early as 1999. There is hope that it will take place, and only then will there be hope for order in the State and for improving the lives of the workers. But they are desperate to resist capitalists and nationalists from the blocks of Yushchenk and Timoshenko. The “ours” are particularly trying. They see the earth rising from their feet, they realize that they are losing confidence in the deceived part of the Ukrainian people because of the grief they have caused in all their years of shameful activity and are doing today. On the conscience of the “ours” destruction in Ukraine of Soviet power and handing it over to the merchants of villains and passersby. By the way, many of the “ours” have been and are now in this system of power. Thanks to the “ours” in the Ukrainian people, the winning work of several generations of national wealth has been created. A good half of them still have this wealth in the background of poverty among the workers. It was they, along with the majority of the Bushmen, who made a coup in the Ukrainian House in 2000, to increase capitalist abuse of the common people. It was they who took the most active part in the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the anti - Selyan, anti - national Codex Earth. Only by walking Victor Yushchenk to the former U.S. ambassador in Ukraine, Carlos Pasqueal, and to his Pope Kuchma and the semi-sorious voting of the faction of “ours” are our boys on the American-Iraq war on the side of the aggressor. They are now crying from the rostrum that the Ukrainian forces must be brought out of Iraq because there is a danger of Islamic terrorism over Ukraine. It is thanks to “ours” that a shameful law has been passed on the mandatory state pension insurance, according to which the Yanukovic government has been deceived by almost all pensioners and deprived of the population, and now they are also pouring tears. The “Our” days have betrayed the Ukrainian people by actively supporting unconditional surrender to the notorious NATO. That's all we've got left. Hence, they no longer fight with the right authority because they have a gun in them. As predators they have recently attacked Communists, because the Company is the only political force that prevents them from carrying out their sinister plans, completely possessing Ukraine to give it back to the villains and to the worlds, not to their own, but to the foreigners, to the Americans. They delight the “creatures” in the dirt of the Communist Party of Ukraine, its leader Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. It's a waste because their filth won't land on pure and honest. Our grief - stricken and proud Ukrainian people are capable of separating grains from half, and in the 2004 presidential election, they will be able to cut off these adventurers from politics. “Ourism” will not pass! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u158	Andrew Schlell has the floor to prepare for Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u159	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Now, in the context of the previous speech, I would like to quote a quote that Stephen the Cloud did not finish in his speech: "The speedy Fascism of the state is happening now, and it may stop it, this fascism, just a revolution." The National Revolution, I'll add by myself, because, in principle, similar statements force me to call it then, if it's “ours” then “community”. No, no, “chuchmo-communist”, maybe then say it. I apologize for moving away from the main theme of my speech. I have every reason to believe that, in 1992, the Executive Authority of our State, namely, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs under the auspices of the former Ministry of Foreign Economic Affairs and Trade of Ukraine, today the Ministry of Economics for European Integration, created a super monopoly on the production of car signs in the person of the then Dnipropetroval Institute of Sports Workers, and today the joint Ukrainian-British enterprise Dinamo.".. By manipulating well - known orders and the lack of legislative regulation, the officials of these departments, using their own view of the specificity of this issue for 12 years, have deliberately prevented the manufacture of this product by domestic producers, thereby providing thermal conditions for the operation of this supermonopolist. As a result, British investors in the company, with a contribution of $253,000 to US investment, have raised tens of millions of dollars from the population of Ukraine, with a corresponding contract, Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs for seven years, which, by the way, was in violation of all the requirements of our state’s legislation. For 10 years, two domestic producers are judged by the executive authority for their simple and guaranteed right by our Constitution: to produce what they can and for what they have the technology to do. As a result of these cases, in June 2003, the Kyiv Master Court finally acknowledged the monopoly in our country on the production of this product and committed the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to violate the law on the protection of economic competition against the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs."who have created such a monopoly by concerted action. Moreover, the committee has broken the matter, but to this day, despite my four questions and the numerous requests of interested operators, it has not been able to give a clear answer: at what stage of the investigation and when it will be completed. I propose and ask the Supreme Council to entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement with analysing this situation and developing draft amendments to the laws of Ukraine governing road traffic to put a stop to this story. And I am obliged to personally join in the implementation of such laws. And finally. I'd like you all to know that the MP funds exist and are allocated 300 million dollars, as reported by the newspaper High Castle and the Ministry of Transportation of Ukraine. And I'd like that to be my question as to where it came from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u160	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Chernevski. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u161	Dear Alexander Aleksevic, distinguished people's deputies, respected radios! "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party, Darnicke electoral district of Kiev, Chernovetski, People's Deputy. Well, first of all, I want to go to my constituents who are probably listening to our broadcast, and remind them that in cases where I'm able to perform live, I'm always asking you to call your older parents today, because that's the most important thing you can do during this week. For them, of course, it will be very good. Secondly, I would like to say that, thanks to my various actions, not always as intelligent as they may be, but I have succeeded in passing two very important laws in this Supreme Council, one of which is called the Morals Act, and we will soon be witnesses of it, with the help of the Attorney General's Office, and the deputies have supported it by almost a majority, that all acts, all kinds of abominations will disappear from magazines and newspapers. I would also like to say that the second law is very important, which has been voted almost by the entire Supreme Council and has defeated the President's veto for an unacceptable write-off, it has been a gift to entrepreneurs, but I also have hundreds of laws that concern people living below the poverty line. The main laws that I am trying to implement are the law that eliminates all the benefits that are available to members of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Office of the President. These are tens of billions of dollars worth of property, which, in its bill, are sanatoriums of various, different houses of rest and the mass of any unnecessary “Mercedes” and any dregs that can only be used after sale to cover the savings that have been lost in the savings bank of Ukraine. This is the only opportunity to count, not after death, but in life and with my constituents and with the electorates of those elected to the Supreme Council. Those who listen to me on the air today make it difficult for me to move this bill. In the past Parliament, it has not been considered. Support me in some way: written, oral, whatever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u162	The word is given by Katuschev Zorima Hafarovna, a Communist. Prepare Kadenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u163	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. At the request of our voters, the Soviet Autonomous Republic of Crimea settler wishes to read out a piece of their treatment. Please read out the Supreme Council of Ukraine and submit the following questions for authorization under your parliamentary authority: on the deterioration of the pension security of the people of Ukraine in connection with the adoption and entry into force of the Act on Compulsory State Pension Insurance as of 1 January 2004. The voters continue to make a comparison in their application as calculated by 1 January 2004 and beyond. And the comparison, as you can see, is not in favor of the latter. During each year of work, a woman was entitled to 2.75 of the average wage for the pension and plus 1 per cent for each year over 20 years. Male 2.25 plus 1 percent for each year over 25 years. Now there's only 1 percent left. That is why even with 45-50 years of work, pensioners received 5-6 bracelets. The pension that most of our citizens receive does not even provide a minimum level of living. In this regard, the question of the second of our electorate's appeal. How many people can be deceived and how much can a law be passed that makes the situation of workers worse. Once again, the Communists had warned that, in the case proposed by the Government, the law could not be passed and that it would have the same consequences as it had. We did not vote in favour of this shameful reform. The electors must know their woeful heroes, to whom they are obliged by their deceit. In order to correct a radical error on this issue, it was the Communists who were asked to review the concept of the law. My friends and friends have made every effort to rescind the disgraceful decree of the Cabinet of Ministers number 1783. But only 192 deputies, including our entire Communist faction, supported the decision to abolish the disgraceful decree, but unfortunately the forces were lacking, and the authorities played as always those who spoke so much about taking care of their people. We're used to blaming communists, but if we listened more often to the Communist opinion, there wouldn't be such a shameful pension reform. It was the Communist deputies Simonenko and Cibenko who had proposed more than twenty proposals that would allow the establishment of a normal pension system, but unfortunately the constructive proposals of the communists had not been taken into account. There were words in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u164	Anatoly Orzhachowski, instead of Petrov, has the word. Prepare Mihowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u165	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Party of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, voters! Let me briefly comment on two painful questions that have plagued the people of the Hersonian region of recent times. First. This is not supported by the Supreme Council of the draft Law on the recognition of the area as a special disaster in the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine in 2003 with damages. The other one. A government team led by the Prime Minister into the region and its consequences. As a result of Parliament's refusal to recommend to the government support the producers of the village of Hersonščina, I will say. Dear countrymen! You were not supported by the President, the government, during 2003, even though there were repeated arguments made by the district councils and district councils, members of the High Council of Hersonians. She did not support you once again, the so-called MP government coalition, she did not vote in favour of the legal release of the government's promised agrarian bloc on November 10th at the next session of the Supreme Council of 40 million Carbovanians. The industrial factions were voted against by industrialists, the NDP, the Agrarian Party, the SDPU(o), the Timoshenko Block and the Yushchenk Block. As a result of the crisis, the APK "Hersonish" has been said by Communists, socialists and individual deputies who have an independent position. It turns out, President, Prime Minister, that it is not known to the majority that the agricultural sphere of Hersonland has been destroyed by the free reforms of land and property, the destruction of irrigation, the transfer to the private property of the skynergo, the transfer to the metalworks, the destruction of the colossals, the Soviets, the social sphere, the villages, the human resources. They don't know that the district councils give a negative assessment of the state of production, of the woe reformers of the age of independence. You rightly mention Soviet times when Leningrad said we wanted to live like in Herson. Unfortunately, you don't even say that to my countrymen today. As for the visits by Viktor Yanukovic and his team, there was a lot of hope that the government would understand its calculations, explore the possibilities of the spring before, and support the area financially. As we say, the barium will judge us, it will help us. I didn't. In addition to high - class words, discipline, and accusations, there was nothing. I don't have to comment on the negative work of district officials and district officials, it's a team of authorities. And with regard to the unsatisfying assessment of the work of the people, you have confirmed, Mr. Yanukovich, a case drowning in the hands of the drowning man himself. You are not told what was ahead because the area had negative production performances. Comparisons of Hersonish, comparisons with the darkness of the tarac, merit yourself and your predecessors: Kinahu, Yashchenka, the Empty Tank. My countrymen were not to blame for the lack of independent agrarian politics but for the policies of American recipes. I have nothing against your investment promotion program. However, farmers today need to sow rather than wait for the government to reshuffle the frame, creating a base under investment. They're demanding. We were able to stop the development.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u166	Ivan Mihovich, get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u167	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear colleagues, presiding officers, fellow countrymen. For days, representatives of the public of Mukachev, one of the picturesque cities of Zakarpatje, became the target of the vicious experimentation of the district council, which is being usurped by SDPU. On December 25 of last year, she inspired the establishment of a presidential government in this city, for which there were no substantial reasons. And today, this authority, using all the administrative resources, in gross violation of existing legislation, is trying to put a candidate from the SDRU (o) in the chair at all costs. In spite of article 48, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Elections of Local Councils, a new constituency and constituencies have been suspended for a period of time. These decisions of the city authorities have been accused, but district authorities have put pressure on even the judicial authorities to reconsider their decisions. Moreover, the authorities with the involvement of the police and the prosecutor’s office are terrorizing and persecuting both members of the City Council of Disobedients and producers, leaders of political and public organizations who dare to resist its actions or express their opinion or dissatisfaction. At the same time, district authorities have banned citizens from meeting for meetings, meetings to which they intend to express their views on what is going on in the city, and to take action against threats, persecutions against disagreeable citizens, and to defend their legitimate rights and interests. Today’s Mukachev authorities are restricting access to information about organization and campaigning, as well as persecuting a wide range of journalists. And it happened that you know that here, under the fabricated excuses, the work of the local television studio is being shut down, there are all kinds of speeches in the law-abiding press that all who do not please and oppose today’s authorities are being inspired. Moreover, today the district council is doing its best not to allow elections as long as it feels that it can be defeated in a destructive way. Deputies, other representatives of the public have appealed to our country’s leaders and foreign nationals for help. It's a shame that President Kuchma is deaf to their waves. So all hope is in us and the request, Your Honor Alexander Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u168	Oleg Belarus has the word to prepare for the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u169	Honourable Head of Nationals, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Today, Ukraine is in a special situation. And despite the thousands of problems that my colleagues have been so passionate about today, we cannot stop talking about what is going on, and what is happening in Ukraine? What is happening to our nation, our society? And I fully support the words of my fellow national MPs who directly said that the threat of falsification of Ukraine's government machine, of working it on its own, of self-preservation is a real fact. And we, as a parliament, as the only higher forum of direct government, as the highest branch of power in Ukraine, have a special responsibility to protect the Constitution, to protect democracy. Let's take a look at the facts. Constitutional reform, which is carried out directly in the direction and in the process of electoral campaign, which imposes on this electoral company a trait, an absence of democracy, unacceptable to democracy, the characteristics of forceful pressure, the violation of the Constitution. These facts cannot go beyond our attention and our joint action. If the problem of transferring the state government system from the Presidential Parliamentary Autocrat to the parliamentary-presidential system is a normal process. And most of them, and they've been opposed for years from different positions -- opposition for, and most of them for, "against." So today it's turned upside down, and this paradox also needs to be explained, explained to our citizens. And it can't be out of control. Why no one talks about the establishment of a state commission to implement or implement a new system of government, why no one talks about the establishment of a parliamentary standing commission to monitor the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's our direct constitutional function, and we haven't done it in years. And today I want to present you with a threatening trend when.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u170	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u171	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! At the request of many administrations of district councils, village councils, farm managers, I would like to address the Cabinet of Ministers personally to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic with such a request. As a result of the unusual conditions of winter, spring, and summer 2003 in Zaporozhye region, the winter crops that were repeatedly transplanted in spring and the summer drought in Zaporozhye region caused the loss of crops in the area of 310,000 hectares [310,000 ha]. The transfused and newly planted fields of culture have been destroyed at an area of 103,000 hectares [103,000 ha]. As a result of a severe drought, in 2003, agricultural producers suffered $45 million,144,7 million in losses. Dear colleagues, I am approached by many district leaders, Yakimivsky, Mikhailovsky, Wesselivsky, and a number of other districts of Zaporozhye, heads of agriculture. I'll just read some. This is the head of the Open Shareholder Society of Kalina, Yakimiv district, located in the south of Zaporozhye district, bordering on the Herson region, which my colleague here was talking about. It calls on them to help agriculture. At the moment, he says that agriculture has no means to pay interest on the use of credits and pay taxes, a salary for spring-field jobs. And it also refers to the rural administration of the Yakimiv district, where they write in their letter: “without taking extraordinary action by the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers to recognize our area as a disaster zone without the assistance of the Cabinet of Ministers, this will exacerbate the social situation in the village and the decline in agricultural production.” The area's credit resources have been used, there's no money coming to pay off the loans, there's no money going to be spent on the next crop. The provision of material aid from the State Budget to the affected countries will help to prevent natural bankruptcy. Therefore, taking this opportunity, taking into account the facts I have mentioned above, I appeal to and urge Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, taking into account that Decree 4128 was not adopted in the Chamber by our fellow deputies, please take into account the situation in Zaporizki, the Herson region of the situation in the agro-industrial complex. And take personal control and help with that. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary request to the government and personally to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-19-m0.u172	Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on March 23, 2004.
