ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:46]] There were 394 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, December 3, the International Day of Disability, by which the world’s society has shown its attention to the disadvantaged plight of the people who especially need it, has raised the highest level of the problem of integration and equal opportunities for people with disabilities. The improvement of the national legal framework for social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities is constantly among the priorities of our nation, its legislative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During the current year, there have been substantial changes in Ukrainian legislation, and a series of legislation has been adopted on this issue. There is a whole group of draft laws on these issues on the committee’s agenda. So I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee, the drafters of the bill on these issues, and to express my expectations on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will do its utmost to make these people feel full in Ukrainian society. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sharov Igor Fedorovic, from the political party's deputy faction "Trudova Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of Ukrainian national deputies Klimenko Klimenko Anatolia Volodymirovich and Sergei Leonid Grigorovovich from the parliamentary faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I will inform Ukraine's National Deputies of the exit of Burjak Aleksandra Vasilovich, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, Kuzmuk Aleksandra Ivanovich, Vasadze Tariela Shakrovič, Rudzkov Dmitr Alexandrovich, of the political party's MP "Trudova Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy, One Alexander Josephovich, from the MP's political party "Trudova Ukraine" and its membership in the "One Ukraine" faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the exit of the National Deputy Kirillov from the "Soyuz" Group. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make applications, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies would like to prepare themselves, more specifically, to sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the President of Ukraine on the constitutional duty of the President of Ukraine to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote for mistrust in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I bet on the vote to support the request [[10:11:13]] For 148 Request not supported. Boris TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of the state of defence. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the issue of the material and technical provision of the Starzoburi special boarding school in the Herson region. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Prime Minister on the constitutional duty of the Prime Minister to submit an application to the President of Ukraine for resignation on the basis of a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine dated 1.12.2004. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problems of establishing the status of a participant in the Great National War to individual Ukrainian citizens. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Attorney General for the lack of activity and formal write-offs of the procurator of the Kirovograd region for the parliamentary appeal for failure to comply with the decisions of the Court of Appeal and the falsification of election documents by the territorial electoral commission of the territorial constituency No. 100, resulting in the distortion of the election of the electorate of the city of Kyrovgrad. MIKOLI TOMENKA to the Attorney General’s Office on the use of prosecutorial response measures in connection with the unlawful use of force against participants in the rally to support Victor Yushchenk on November 23, 2004, in the village of the Black Sea Cherka region as head of the Black Bay District State Administration. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the Trieste District Council of the Sumya District of Sérgio Kirička and the Chief of Criminal Investigation of Oleg Avershin for direct involvement in the beating of the people and the attack on the candidate's headquarters at President Viktor Yushchenka. YEUGENA JOLJAKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence against the resident of Podgaitsi, on the occasion of the presidential election of October 31, 2004. Mary MARKUS to the Attorney-General for refusing the Zacarpathian Forest Community to pay off the employee's salary and for providing information on the absence of payment arrears. Mr. Jurija ARTEMENKA and Ms. SOLOVEVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Prosecutor of the Zaporozhye District, Head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Zaporozhye Region for the violation of the criminal case, following the attack by employees of the Lenin District Department of the Zaporozhye City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zaporozhye region on members of the People's Deputies. Igora Jeremeeva to the Attorney General for violating effective legislation by a person authorized by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market to deal with the “Register” consulting firm. To the Attorney-General, Vladimir YAWORIY, on the basis of the actual privatization by the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine of the Western Regional Customs in the person of its Chief Taras Kozak, a sharp increase in the smuggling of goods and repression against customs officials who refused to carry out the criminal order for the administration of customs. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for the criminal responsibility of the Head of the Umman District State Administration and other officials of the public authorities of the Umman district of Cherkas region for the crimes they committed during the 2004 elections of the President of Ukraine. Anatolia LOVINA to the Minister of Justice for the conduct of an examination of the illegal actions of the private notary of the Kyiv City Notary District. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the implementation of measures to restore the nutrition of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to Kiev City Head for the delay in repairing the roof of House No. 1 along the alley of the Artillery City of Kiev and the cost of repairing it. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, the Head of the High Council of Justice on the violation of disciplinary conduct against the Head of the Luhansk Court of Appeal for violating the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and the oath of the judge expressed in his personal participation in the political Sabbath, where the issue of the change in the territory of Ukraine was discussed. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Head of the State Property Fund, Minister of Agrarian Politics, for the delay in the local authorities in resolving the issue of the breeding of land of the former Suma district of Dimitrov. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, the Head of the High Council of Justice on the violation of disciplinary conduct against the Head of the Donetsk Court of Appeal for violating the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and the oaths of the judge expressed in his personal participation in the political Sabbath where the issue of the change in the territory of Ukraine was discussed. So a few more questions we have, dear colleagues, that's Parliamentary request by Vladimir Yavorijski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the criminalization of members of the territorial electoral commission of the territorial constituency No. 100 of the cities of Kyrovgrad, which signed and submitted to the Central Electoral Commission a forged summary report of the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004. Mr Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister of Internal Affairs of the Security Service for the Prohibition of Entry into the Territory of Ukraine of State Officials of the Russian Federation: Gerinowski, Slyz. , Rogozina, Luzkova, Cobzona, in connection with their brutal interference with internal affairs and activities that affect Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Valery Samoplavski, Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of forest legislation in the forests of Min agropolitics of Ukraine, particularly in the Shastkin district of Sumsk. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the covert informational psychological manipulation of the collective consciousness of the people on the area of Independence in Kiev during the protests against the falsification of the results of the election of the President of Ukraine. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the parliamentary questions that have been made at this time. The number of these requests is 24, according to factions: "Our Ukraine" - 12, Communist faction - 5, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, National Agrarian Party - 3, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 1, Postfraction - 2. It's just 24. Dear folk colleagues, I am told that today there are 65-year-old areas in Western Ukraine, especially in Lutsk. Let us welcome this Jubilee and wish to establish and strengthen a whole, only independent Ukraine. I don't see enthusiasm, my dear colleagues. [[Applause]] Yes, I would like to highlight on the table the name of the people's deputies who signed up for statements, reports, information. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u2	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. During the last days, there have been insidious accusations from various rescue workers of the nation that they do not support the struggle of the so - called opposition to power. Some of the traitors and traitors of the left socialist movement are particularly trying. I would like to address these critics with the following. Guys, stop fooling people. Tell them honestly that today’s struggle between two criminal oligarchic clans is not about the common interests of ordinary workers — workers, peasants, intellectuals, students, pensioners, and other categories of citizens — but about the clan’s leadership in Ukraine, continuing to abuse the people for the next five years. Tell them honestly that this year's presidential election for the people of Ukraine ended on October 31, 2004. And no matter who the candidates for capitalists now become president, nothing will change. On the contrary, this battle against the clans will result in increased exploitation of hired workers, price increases, and tariffs — a decline in the standard of living. In addition, it is quite likely that our nation’s dependence on external influence — that is, the loss of independence — will increase. Tell them honestly that all decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine both since November 27 and from December 1st have no legal effect, as both the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister have practically stated this. So the efforts of the protest participants in this direction are futile. One side stalled them to keep the protestors warm and profited, the other side to release the couple. Once again, don't fool people, today you have an orange color, but it's constantly changing depending on who pays more. The Communists will never let you down to your level to deceive the people and participate in the slaughtering of the clans. We have a clear and balanced position that we speak of openly and honestly. We are constantly fighting for the establishment in Ukraine of a really national, not a criminal oligarchic power that would not embody it. We want Ukraine to move to a society where everyone would have respect for himself. We want to set up and strengthen, together with our neighbour brothers, a mutually beneficial economic relationship with all the nations and states of the world. Today, the current authorities and oligarchs fighting for power have brought Ukraine to a dead end. In order to overcome the crisis, communists are demanding political reform in the end, in order to avoid further violent fighting by the criminal clans for the presidency. Consider this year's presidential election as if it hadn't taken place and held a new election. All the power to transfer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to preserve the social calm and integrity of Ukraine, Yanukovich and Yushchenk voluntarily renounced the further struggle for the presidency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon! Alexander Baranowski, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Get ready, Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u4	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear national MPs, our constituents! I'd like to draw your attention to the previous speaker from the Communist faction that you don't have to look for the cause of your failures in someone's actions. Look at the root of your policies, and you will understand why the population of Ukraine has turned away from you. I'd like to say. I would like to say, dear friends, that in our view today there is a deliberate delay in the power of the resolution of the political conflict that has arisen in connection with the mass falsification of the presidential election in the second round. In the same way, the government provokes the street to take more radical action. In this regard, we would like to address Parliament first, today, dear friends of yours, that all of our next days should be working, that we should consider in an urgent manner the amendments to the President's Elections Act, the changes to the Constitution. We have to go to the President again today, and I want to ask him to start acting in the right constitutional field. Because his inaction leads him to the constitutional field. And so today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the situation is that if the President does not make any appropriate decisions under the Constitution, these decisions should be made by the Supreme Council. We need to start forming a government. And the question is to decide as quickly as possible. So it can't be a country today. Who is running the Cabinet of Ministers today? We don’t even see the President’s decision, even if it is temporary, who performs these duties. The problem that has arisen with the Central Election Commission needs to be solved. Of course, all of us today have high hopes that this knot will be resolved in connection with the decision of the court. We would also ask the court, your honorary colleagues, as easy and easy as it is for you, but when it is necessary for the peace of the state, you can work not until 8 p.m., but work for, say, 4-5 hours or more. Therefore, we have very little time left, and we need to solve all the problems in our society today. And that can be done, to my deep conviction, only by the Supreme Council today. So let us be worthy of the trust of our people and deal with this situation with honor and the slightest loss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u5	Ivan Ivancho, "Our Ukraine" faction. Ah, Ivancho is sending Pinzenic, please prepare Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The events of the last day give us reason to claim that the process of political settlement of the conflict has been blocked. One of the key points of Wednesday's negotiations and agreement with international participants was not only the non-application of power in conflict management but also the conclusion of the President's elections. Yesterday's presidential statement in Moscow about the re-voting shows that this crucial most fundamental arrangement has been violated and that the negotiation process of the other party has essentially been abandoned. I recall that, according to the law in force, the election of the President is considered unfinished until the winner of the election has been declared. Yesterday's parliamentary consultations testify to the blocking of the political process of negotiations, as the working group on the legal regulation of the conclusion of the elections resembled a discussion club of the theory of law rather than a working group on concrete steps in the legal settlement of the situation. A temporary special commission for political reform has made its proposals, but individual members of the Conciliation Council have put forward conditions for political reform that are not acceptable to our political power, even though we have taken this step as a compromise to address the political crisis. Victor Yushchenk's faction "Our Ukraine" suggests: 1. To take a decision now that you have been given a project, Project 6382 on the evening, Saturday and Sunday of the morning and evening plenary. 2. Work on a package of documents after the election, and today consider a draft law on the specificities of applying the Presidential Election Act in a re-vote. With this goal in mind, the MPs and factions, by 12 o'clock, will make proposals to the Matvienka Committee to the already drafted law, and then to vote in parliament. We have a legal basis for voting on such a law, since the results of the second round are not found to be valid by Saturday's decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thirdly, to make proposals for a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, not by quota principle, but by principle 5+5+5. 5 from each candidate to the Presidents and 5 from the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Fourth, set the date for the re-voting. And lastly, in the event of a failure to respond to the resignation of the Government and the need to form a new government by the Ukrainian Parliament to form a temporary government of national trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u7	Yes. Thank you, Yuri Lucenko, for getting Mikola Karnauhu ready. Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u8	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners, we need to talk today not so much about the duel of presidential candidates, but about the economic situation. I am deeply convinced that Kuchma is bringing the country into a full-scale not only political crisis but, above all, economic crisis. President Kuchma does not recognize the Constitutional Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the resignation of the government of Yanukovich, which is exactly what he does, and not those who block the country's economy. I would like to remind you, however, that on Monday, when Kabmin was unlocked, there were as many as 50 cleaning houses and no government officials except for Minfin’s employees. I think it's a sign that Kuchma and Janukovic want to destroy the country and write it down as an opposition. The economy is fully involved in the collapse, which is known by those present here in the hall, the industrialists from Donetsk, from Kharkiv, from Luhansk, from other regions. Plants today feel threatened by a full - scale economic blow. The kind we experienced in the year 98. In this situation, it is Parliament that should think of the government of national salvation. This government is to assume responsibility for two months. In all countries, such a government is called the Service Government, which brings the country out between the elections from disaster. This government should be formed here today, in Parliament, on the basis of coalition agreements, I strongly believe that they are possible. That's where we can find the compromise. From my point of view, the main condition of such a compromise is the conduct of a polyform that will take effect on January 1st. The sixth year. And its key article on the formation of a coalition government will take effect immediately. And today there is a person in this room who is a symbol of the conduct of this polyform, which is the guarantor of both sides' non-attack on each other, which will guarantee the stability of the economy. This man's name is Frost Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. I now propose to the faction leaders, to the thoughtful MPs, first to the industrialists to engage in immediate negotiations. And today, to support this candidature for a few months to stop the crisis that Kuchma and Janukovic had for us. In addition, Parliament is, of course, to consider the Law on the Amendment of the Law to Elections, the Law on the Composition of the CLTC, and to require Kuchma to sign it. If he doesn't, not just the President's Administration will be blocked, but the whole country, starting with Mr. Kuchma's forest residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u9	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine To prepare the Battle of Volodymyr Semenovich instead of Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u10	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. At the beginning of my speech, I cannot ignore the speech by Communist Lechchenk, who accused the Socialist Party of treason. The Socialists have always been followers, advocates of the interests of the Ukrainian people. And as for the communists, I want to say that the Communist Party of Ukraine is neither of its activities nor of its positions, unfortunately, today is neither Communist nor Ukrainian party. It is very painful, of course, for us to admit. But when Alexander Moroz supported Simonek in the second round in 1999, and Janukovich in fact stole the victory in Donbasa, the Communists did not apply to the court but agreed because they always supported that authority. Now essentially. Communists speak and say that President Kuchma and Janukovitch have spoken their word, and the people, as it were, do not take their opinion into account. Dear Communists! The source of authority is the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian people have expressed their opinion and their will. And so, by no chance, there are songs on the grounds that we have not been bullies or goats, we are daughters and sons of Ukraine, and we stand our ground. So I'm going to say that the Socialist Party is an honest party, unlike you, and we've never been to concessions or to co-operate with the regime. No, we're not selling as opposed to you. That's why my constituents and all the people of Poltavščina have long said their word that neither Kuchmi nor the Communist Party of Ukraine! However, today the events are unfolding so that Kuchma, who is the main culprit and economic crisis in the past, and social social instability today has actually taken an enemy position, he has no confidence in the people, and he is disgracefully going to consult Putin, even at the airport of Vnukovo, he is no longer allowed into the Kremlin. Therefore, honourable national deputies, today the Supreme Council as the only legitimate body should act with due weight, determination, and speed. We must carry out political reform, we must form a coalition government, we must make changes to the President's Election Act in order to foresee a re-vote, and we must adopt a re-vote date. And, dear colleagues, I know that both Ukraine and the Ukrainian people are the only ones, and no acts of separatism will pass. Therefore, I propose to the BSS for the period of pretrial investigation of officials who are involved, away from duty, and as a precautionary measure to take them into custody. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u11	Yes, Vladimir Semenovich Boyko, faction of Ukraine. Get Terran-Taran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I don't go out to this rostrum very often. The latest event in Ukraine is forcing me to express my position clearly and clearly. We have one country, one constitution, one shrine, one value. We oppose any sentiment, any action against the disengagement of our country. Yes, I'm sure millions of our fellow citizens think. But Ukraine is developing a terrible economic crisis due to an acute political situation. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable policies! I remember 1998 de-holt in Russia. The former Prime Minister Valery Pavlovich Pavlovich Pashtowytenko is here, unfortunately not Victor Andreevich Yushchenka. You remember my statement and my programmes, which I asked you to do on September 5, 1998. For 4 months he had not left Kiev until he had received those questions and, since January 1999, the country had begun to take action in the light of the decisions taken. What do we have today? Starting on 1 December, prices for industrial goods are being raised, prices are being set by those who have made decisions here in the Supreme Hall and above all in the Ukraine. Today we refused to confirm the prices today stopped shipping the ore and tomorrow we will stop shipping the concentrate. We state that these prices are unconfirmed. They call me "the red director." Yes, I have also survived 1990, 1991, 1993, 1998 and today I say that the people will not forgive us! Therefore, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have worked with my colleagues on the ruling, I understand that it is illegal for today, but I ask her to immediately put her in this room and vote, to decide today whether to appoint the Acting Prime Minister and to take someone into my hands. I'll just tell you one thing you can check out today. As we load up today, $8 million to $9 million a day, today we get a million and a half dollars, and tomorrow we end the business-to-business calculations. Are we trying to get the barter back? We're trying to get the country back? Think about it! Today and tomorrow we must make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Taran conveys the word of Turkin Alexander. Please. Get Chickanova ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u14	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. Today, our country is experiencing a crisis that we have not experienced since June 1941. The people of Ukraine refused to obey criminal orders under the Constitution. There is no central authority in our country today. In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers has not been in operation for two weeks. Legally, the Cabinet of Ministers ceased to exist after he was retired by the Supreme Council. Kuchma's authorization ended on November 30, this year. Local authorities are disoriented. Criminals who have come to positions in the regions in an administrative way are now trying to play separatist cards in the east. Today, they are charging themselves with the numbers of laborers. I want to address our friends, our citizens who live in Donetsk, Lugansk, in other eastern regions. Look at those who are trying to protect you today. They are the same people who have abused you for ten years who did not respect you, who considered you to be a bastard. Today, they are trying to scare you from the western threat. I want to turn to you and say that we all respect you, we love you, we're the only people who can't be divided. Next, dear friends. During the past ten years, Kuchma has been a disgraceful leader of the country. And today it can be predicted that he will come down disgracefully from the political arena, the only thing that is required of him today is to sign the decree and accept the resignation of the government and immediately resign in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of the Central Electoral Commission, but the latest statements show that he does not have the understanding today, not only does he lose even the instinct of self-preservation. That is why it is today that the Supreme Council should assume responsibility as the only legitimate body. I will remind you that, apart from the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council in exceptional cases, acts can be taken. It's already adopted the Independence Act, and it's this act that gives us independence today. And today's time has come for the Supreme Council to adopt an act to overcome the crisis and to form the Cabinet of Ministers, by this act to form the Central Election Commission, by this act to clarify the issue of the vote of the President of Ukraine and by this act to place the President's authority over the Supreme Council of Lithuania. That is how we will overcome the crisis, and I ask my esteemed colleagues in connection with a situation that has arisen in the state not to break up with the Supreme Council and to work without weekends and Sundays. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u15	Yes, Chickanov gives the word Simonek, to prepare for the Melnik of Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! You and I are witnesses, just like the oligarchs on one side and the other today, wanting to take power at any cost and in any way created a situation that comes to a critical limit. Is Ukraine split into sections behind the Zakokensian, or more specifically in connection with the last statement made by Bjozinski?? U.S. scenario. We have repeatedly warned the people of Ukraine of such consequences by speaking from this high rostrum about meeting you. Unfortunately, our warnings happen, none of the two candidates for the presidency reflect and cannot defend the interests of the working people, because they are representatives of powerful clans and various other groups. The opposition of the clans has grown into opposition to the geopolitical nature of this crossroad of Ukraine just now. The Communists, by dividing and supporting the aspirations of the people of Ukraine, students and young people of free and prosperous living in Ukraine, are at the same time warning all Ukrainian citizens who willfully take part in one or another action not to be a different coin in impudent speculations on popular, natural feelings from political adventurers and criminal circles. Social tensions are on the rise, so we Communists have appealed to law enforcement officials, to all power structures, to protect public order, safety, life, and health. To show endurance and not to give rise to bloody conflicts and to urge local council members, local government officials and executive authorities of all levels, business leaders, institutions and organizations of all forms of property, to resist blackmail, to ensure and maintain public peace and order, to act exclusively within the framework of the Constitution, because we are behind the lives of the people of Ukraine and Ukraine. My appeal was also triggered by those who appeared among those who took part in the protest of a fair fight for fair elections, and a group of specially trained fighters also appeared. We today, the Communists believe that only the recognition of elections that did not take place and the transfer of power to the Supreme Council of the one legitimate elected legislative body. Political reform will primarily enable a peaceful solution to this political crisis. I'm talking to all those who have been blowing the Company for a few years for our principled position, today you see that it's just the offer of the Communists that this real program of getting out of the crisis. I state that we Communists have been proclaiming from this day forward an action of national control over the implementation of the commitments made by the candidates to the Presidents and that we propose to vote today on the decision to withdraw ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u17	Please, in place of Melnik Boki, prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u18	Ivan Boki, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, first of all, I want to inform the people of Ukraine that the team of Kuchma, Yanukovich, Medvedczuk has come up with another adventure. Now, there's a theory in society that for the next two months, it won't be possible to pay people their wages because, you see, the opposition is undermining the economy. So I think the people of Ukraine are right to know that it's not the opposition that's undermining the economy, it's long since been blown up by this team. As you know, the election spends an enormous amount, calculated at about $3 billion, on the gold reserves of our nation. And this team still dares to lie to the people about what the opposition seems to be tearing things down. Well, you know how far you can go in cynicism and wickedness against your own people. What is being done in our country today has been taking root for 13 years, 13 years ago our nation has been in victory and stolen by bandits, political adventurers who have come to power in Ukraine. And today, when all the people rose up against this horde, this horde and I still desire or maintain power, dares to intimidate the people with such horrors and, at the same time, President Kuchma does not carry out his basic duties, the Supreme Council, based on the Constitution, sends the government to resign, and the President deliberately sabotages the resignation of the government. And it says a lot about something, it tells us that he thinks he's above the Constitution, over the people, he thinks he's some kind of superman, a superhero who's allowed everything. In fact, as we understand it, that is not the case. One of the last nights I spent with the participants in this, they say, orange revolution near the Cabinet of Ministers. And then a group of students came up to me and said, "Why does the Supreme Council allow statesmen to do things that compromise the Ukrainian state?" I'm saying, which one? And I'm told, and you know that the Kuchma family, Yanukovich, the Tobacco bought parts on the Moon. I'm saying, well, there's not much going on. Well, they say, you know, these parts sell fraud? Well, I'm saying, yes, of course, crooks have a right to cheat, otherwise they can't be. And they asked us, MPs, to draft a bill to oblige us to nationalize property on the Moon of Cuchma, Yanukovitch, and Tobacco and to pass it on to the people of the Moon, which may once be there to be owned by a legitimate owner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u19	Please give the floor to the national representative of Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u20	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters, your Honourable Head. With regard to the artificial blowing up of separatist sentiments in some areas of Ukraine, we also have to think clearly of the external factors that reinforce such anticonstitutional actions by the leaders of certain areas of Ukraine. As far as I'm concerned, dear colleagues, the response that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made on Luzkov's visit to the Donetsk district is not enough. Today, as we know, yet some Russian politicians intend to enter, not only to enter Ukrainian territory, but also to take part in the political action that will take place tomorrow in the Donetsk region. I think the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to make a clear and firm statement about the intervention of the leaders of specific states, which should be referred to as internal Ukrainian affairs. I think that today all Ukrainian citizens are clearly reporting in which countries or governments, or what political regimes, as they relate to the situation here in Ukraine. I think some of these statements by Ukrainian politicians, especially in Crimea, about the criminal intentions of the European states regarding Ukraine, about what is said to be such Nazi aspirations in Ukraine. They are all such statements today because we see that it is Western European countries that are talking about the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the inviolability of its borders. And it is those leaders or those countries whose leaders have acted with seemingly friendly expressions to Ukraine that are now openly and brutally interfering with the affairs of the Ukrainian State. I don't think it's right for Parliament to remain silent in this situation. And the last thing I'd like to say. I think that even though we have not fully solved the problem of the crisis that is, we must clearly demand the prosecution's office, especially its regional structures, to comply with Ukraine's laws. And especially when it comes to violations of legislation regarding international, interreligious, or vice versa. So once again, I would like to reiterate that the many cases of international disaster, especially in the area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, have been ignored by the Crimea Prosecutor's Office. Moreover, they do not see any.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Yes, the replica, please, Peter Simonenko, is a faction of Communists, since the name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u22	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. I will not answer these foolish and baseless charges against the Company of Ukraine. This is an attempt by politicians who have committed political crimes to justify themselves before voters, and I think time will judge us, and time will answer all these questions. But I would also like to use this time to reiterate that the Communist faction of today has announced the public monitoring of the fulfillment of the promises, the political statements made by candidates during the election campaign. Vladimir Mihajlovich, a faction of communists today insists on considering, among the first issues, the withdrawal of our military from Iraq. That's what all the candidates said. During the year, three and a half thousand died in Iraq alone in Baghdad. Peacekeepers, 7,000 wounded. And we call upon everyone today to vote in favour of withdrawing our military from Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u23	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, speeches by national deputies with statements, information, reports have been completed. There is such an offer, dear fellows, pay attention! Consider and vote on the 6380th draft of the Order on the Transfer of Parliamentary Hearings, and then consider the decree on making changes to the calendar plan. No objections? Dear colleagues, before considering the draft Ordinance on the transfer of parliamentary hearings on the implementation of judicial and legal reform. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council's decree of 23 September this year provides for parliamentary hearings on the implementation of Ukraine's judicial and legal reform. It was supposed to be December 8th this year. In connection with a political and legal situation in Ukraine, the Committee believes that holding such hearings on December 8 will not contribute to a comprehensive, objective parliamentary study of judicial and legal reform issues. The committee considered this question and asked that it be transferred to March 16, the following year. You have a draft decision, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, no warning? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u26	None. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone the parliamentary hearing on the implementation of judicial reform in Ukraine is then put to the vote. Registration number 6380. Please vote. [[10:56:07]] For 336 Yes, please, for -336, the decision is made. I'd like you to log in, three minutes, please. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u27	May I have the right to speak to the focal point for the Victor Pinzenic faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's Block. In a statement from the faction, we insisted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not have the right to finish its work today at lunch. We are obliged to conclude the legislative settlement process of the election process by deciding whether to hold a meeting this evening, Saturday and Sunday morning and evening. The draft of the corresponding decree 6382 is registered and distributed to you in the Chamber of Deputies. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we ask you to put to the vote now decree 6382 on work in the next three days.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u29	Yes, Mikola Komar, please, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u30	I ask you to pass the word to Matthew Sergio Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u31	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u32	Matvienko's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u33	Please turn on the microphone. It's a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u34	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have already spoken on this subject today, and Vladimir Semenović, speaking, said that politics is politics, but economics are economics. Pensioners, both in the west and in the east, both in the north and in the south, are the same, they want to receive a pension, they want to live normally, they have to be confident that tomorrow they will be given a pension, not by flags, not by scarfs, but by a specific Ukrainian currency, by a bracelet. And we have to be sure of that. So let us today accept this decree that we are talking about. At least the economic situation we have today will not allow us to dive into the abyss, we will not hold back our markets, we will not hold back our stores. You'll see what happens to banks, what happens to currencies. To this day, we are one step to the abyss, if we plunge into this abyss, then we will not be justified in anything before our people, how will we choose from it, by what power, by what means? Again, the category of population that we have already suffered in the collapse of the Soviet Union, which has lost its contributions, and which has created this Power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u35	Give me this document where he is. Please, George Ponomarenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u36	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u37	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u38	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Only then will we support the proposal for organization of work today and tomorrow only if we consider and vote on political reform. What will enable us today to resolve issues that have a bearing on the political crisis. And second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a faction of Communists, insists that you put the vote in order of the day and urgently vote on this short text of Decree 5580, which is discussed on the committee and which positive decision the committee has. This has to do with the withdrawal of our military contingent from Iraq. Please put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda and immediately vote on this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! We've been exchanging thoughts with motivations and procedures, let's see if we can work out this algorithm. May I have everyone's attention, please? We will now consider draft regulation 6382 on inclusion in the agenda, and then the proposal that Peter Mikolaiovich made is draft regulation 5580. And also the Boyko draft decision to put everyone on a level of condition, we're going to look at the inclusion in the agenda essentially. Every single one of us. Therefore, I would like your attention, fellow Members, to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order, registration number 6382, of the change to the calendar of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call. Please vote. [[11:01:24]] For 234 By factions, please calm down, please. "Our Ukraine" - 100, "Regions of Ukraine", Communist Zero, SDPU - 1, "Trudova Ukraine" - 9, People's Agrarian - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19. Soyuz - 11, One Ukraine - 14, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 7, Center - 13, Democratic Initiatives - 1, non-fractional - 19. Now, the question of inclusion in the agenda, now please pay attention, honourable national deputies, I propose to vote on this ruling now. Since we've included it in the agenda with one detail so that December 4th, please log in. Now we're going to do, please cancel, Your Honor, everything will be fine, please, head of the Regulatory Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to say, let's follow the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules, if there is no proposal for a violation of the Rules, it has not been considered, this draft ruling, at a meeting of the Committee and it is included for consideration by the Supreme Council, it has been two other proposals to consider or to present for consideration by the Supreme Council now two other projects, 6381 and the one relating to the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, so we need to decide whether to include one or two draft regulations and then to consider them at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u41	Well, dear fellows, I thought we agreed with you, there was no objection that we would now consider one, then we would move the other into the order of the day and consider it, well, as it were, can we? Yeah? Well, there isn't. Well, we're going to look at one, then we're going to include the other one -- looks at it, then we're going to include the third one -- we're going to look at it. Well, as we agreed. Then I would like your attention, Your Honor, to take note of this draft decision, with one clarification, that tomorrow morning's December 4th session will begin by 12 o'clock, so it's time to hold appropriate consultations. For three minutes, please sign up with your respectable colleagues. On the board is the name of the national deputies who wrote: Manchulenko Georgie, let's stick to the rules, it's motivated, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u42	George Manchulenco, 203rd District of the Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Honourable Head, Your Honor's colleagues, it's clear that we don't have a formal situation right now, and we need to find the most ways to solve it. It's a strange alliance, an alliance: a party of regions, a company, an SDPU, that is, real fighters with an oligarchic regime, and, I think our electorate, especially those communists, ideological ranks, who don't know how the top of the company behaves. There is no doubt that decisions must be made in an unusual way now, and it would be entirely logical for us to work tomorrow and tomorrow, and today, too, to be evening meetings. So I support the consideration of a draft decision that changes the calendar plan so that we can come up with a constructive solution these days to those issues that are now being dealt with by the authorities that are delaying the negotiation process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u43	Zara Katusheva, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u44	The Communist faction, Katusheva, please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u45	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. First, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we should put all the proposals that have been made to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda proposed by the chairman of the Regulatory Committee. This is the first time. It's different. As we vote in favour of Decree 6382, we do not know at all what our agenda will be. So I suggest you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, before you go to the discussion of this decision, gather the Conciliation Council, and let's form a day order. Because it's not clear what we're going to talk about. I asked a question like that. If political reform decisions are discussed and made, we are ready to support them. And if it's just a chat, we're against it. And I insist again. Put to the vote and include in the order of the day those proposals that were made. And the last. Again with the charges. I'd like to remind you of the gentleman who used to speak before who you were turning in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u47	Honorable National MPs. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please. We have one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u48	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine knows what questions we must consider tomorrow, today, after tomorrow. It's about getting Ukraine out of the crisis, it's about amending the Presidential Elections Act, it's about setting terms for the second round of voting, it's about making changes to the Constitution, and it's about forming a new Central Electoral Commission. Even this brief list tells us what we have to talk about. With regard to other matters, they really can. But I would like to ask all the colleagues present in this room today not to ask questions about our choice of questions that would break this room, and that is that today only the majority of these, some healthy force, are born, so that we don't cool down the hall. That's why there's work to be done. We are voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I want to say that the list of issues that we should consider was discussed twice at the Conciliation Council yesterday. And today we will be discussing at the Conciliation Council meeting at 2 p.m. In line with the proposals that have been made, I will put to the vote and now, after considering this issue, others to make the appropriate decision. Well, we can't put it in a bag, sir, you understand that. Well, respectable colleagues! Well, you know perfectly well what you're talking about. Why are you yelling? Dear colleagues, please. Now we're going to put another question into the order of the day, you know how we are. So we're looking at, we've always looked at the inclusion of the issue, and we've moved on. I'm begging you! Dear colleagues, come on! Now let's make the decision that we always made. May I have your attention, please? Sit down, please! I'm putting to the vote, please note, for the adoption of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree 6382 "To change the calendar of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" with the clarification that the morning session of December 4 will begin at 12 o'clock. Here comes the vote. Please vote. [[11:09:27]] For 221 The decision is not taken. You guys get your ass together, we're gonna move on. Mobilize, please. May I have your attention, please? Calm down, you don't know what this is about. Calm down, please! You don't know what this is about! What are you yelling at?Oh, my God! May I have your attention, please? In response to the demand that we have spoken, we put the vote to a vote, please calm down, then we will go back, please note that the inclusion in the agenda is, well, you will not know what you are voting for, for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project Order 5580 on the withdrawal of the peacekeeping contingent of Ukraine for participation in an international peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Iraq. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:10:33]] For 234 Decision taken. Please calm down. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 17, "Ukraine" -58. The Communists are 57. SDPU (o) - 33. "Urrigible Ukraine" - 1. People's Agrarian - 1. C.O.P. - 20. Block Timoshenko - 15. "Soyuz" is 3. "The only Ukraine" is 4. SPTP NPB - 1. "Centre" - 2. "Democratic Initiatives" is 8. Postfaction is 14. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Because the question is included in the agenda. Sit down and calm down. I'm going to put to the vote a draft decree to take it as a ruling, and I'm going to read this resolution right now. Draft Decree No. 5580 on the withdrawal of the United States peacekeeping contingent to participate in an international operation in the Republic of Iraq. I'm betting on a vote to take this decision as a whole. Change the vote. They need to read. I'm reading. Please. Draft Decree No. 5580 on the withdrawal of Ukraine's peacekeeping contingent for participation in an international peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Iraq. In view of the sharp exacerbation of the situation in the occupied American-British coalition of Iraq, which has already led to the direct involvement of Ukrainian peacekeepers in hostilities to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not given its consent to the loss of human lives, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides, in accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations, to contact the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, with a proposal to recall the peacekeeping contingent of Ukraine from the Republic of Iraq. I'm willing to vote for this ruling. I'm asking you, distinguished national MPs, to be determined. [[11:12:52]] For 257 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 24, Ukraine - 58, Communists - 57, SDPU - 33, Labour Ukraine - 5, National Agrarian - 1, STI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 13, Union - 6, Ukraine - 6, NDP - 6, industry and entrepreneurs - 3, Center - 3, Democratic Initiatives - 13, non-fractional - 15. Now, if you'll have your attention. The next draft of Decree No. 6381, introduced by People's Deputies Boyk, Matviyenko, Yehanurov and Gurov, on measures to prevent further development of the financial crisis and the consolidation of monetary accounts between businesses and the National Budget of Ukraine. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of this ruling. Please vote. [[11:14:00]] For 377 The draft decree is included in the agenda. If there are no warnings, I am voting on the approval of the draft ruling as a whole. Registration number 6381 "On measures to prevent the further development of the financial crisis and the accumulation of monetary accounts between businesses and the State budget of Ukraine." Please vote. [[11:14:41]] For 386 Decision taken. May I have your attention, Your Honor? Since the Supreme Council has demonstrated such unanimity, may I have your attention? So, "no, no"? I will put to the vote a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to amend the calendar plan for the 6th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. Please vote. [[11:15:22]] For 227 Order's on. The factions, please. She did. What, what? “Our Ukraine” -99, “Ukraine” - 1, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 1, “Urban Ukraine” - 10, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 4, “One Ukraine” - 8, “Centre” - 13, “NDP and PPU - 7, “Deminicatives” - 1, “Afterfrakation - 24. For reasons, please write them down for three minutes. Warm up Boris, faction of "Our Ukraine" then Kirichenko "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u50	Give me the word of Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u51	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u52	203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! No doubt this is the right decision that we have just voted on, since the situation requires swift and radical decisions on our part. I want to warn you of one problem. The point is that today’s negotiating process is consciously being used by the authorities to delay the resolution of the issue. The problems she is now having in the economy of Ukraine she wants to translate into opposition. Shift the problem from a headache to a healthy one. I want to say that this is not going to happen, and we should not allow this process to happen, but we should be working together all these days not to delay the process, but to radically resolve the issue and send the government to retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u53	Sophia Kirichenko, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! I want to draw attention today to the arbitrary event that is taking place in Ukraine. Today, tens of thousands of people who are standing in the square in Kiev cannot say that this is Ukraine today. Ukraine in the economic crisis that began in Ukraine, and we must understand that. First of all, we must say who is to blame today. And they must be fully accountable to Ukrainian workers. What I'm saying is, tomorrow the miners won't get paid. And tell Mr. Yushchenko how will you respond?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u55	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Passes the word to Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u57	Peter Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u58	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. The question is, so I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council immediately before the vote, which would define a series of issues that will be brought up and prepared appropriate projects that we should study and determine about its vote. It's different. If you are personally, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you guarantee that political reform will be the first to be considered and adopted in accordance with the decree adopted on November 27th, and we are already on time for political reform, then let's state it. And today, there's no definition of what you're doing, and you're just getting into the chat room, not the specific work of the Supreme Council. So I ask you to immediately assemble the Conciliation Council before voting on this motion for a ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I would just ask you not to accuse me of bringing the Supreme Council into this mess. Simple. As for the list of issues that we should consider, we had a conversation at the Conciliation Council yesterday, today at 2 p.m. we will be speaking at the Conciliation Council. In the complex, we agreed that we would consider three problems. That's why. Ladies and gentlemen. No, that's how we talked about what, what kind of complex issues we're going to consider. We will consider issues related to the application of the Presidential Election Act, specialities, political reform issues and all, two main issues that we will consider. And on this everyone insisted, in this they all agreed, honourable colleagues, and the question, well, the CFE in law will be, we will be considering the Law, we will be considering, honourable colleagues, as required by the joint statement of the round table, as required by the issues that we discussed, the decisions that we discussed on the Conciliation Council yesterday twice, the issue of the specificities of the application of the law and the question of making changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. I said the question is, this is a bill amending the President's electoral law, and if more specifically, it is formulated in this way: on the specificities of the application of the President's electoral law in the circumstances that have arisen and the second issue is the consideration of Bill 4180. There was a temporary special commission working yesterday, and she's working today, the final version, she'll give it to you at 2:00. We'll be looking at it at 4:00, so I'd like to make a very careful vote now, Mr. People's Deputies. It is up to the vote to adopt the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar plan for the 6th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call to specify that the plenary session of 4 December will begin at 12 o'clock, all the rest by text, please vote. Please vote. [[11:22:08]] For 293 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcements here require me to make an urgent request: according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report my withdrawal from the MP's faction "Trudova Ukraine, National Deputy Fedir Spig." Yes. Honorable People's Deputies, 2 factions: The People's Democratic Party, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, i.e. 3, the formation of the parliamentary factions: The People's Democratic Party, Industry and Entrepreneurs, no, it's still 2. Because we have one faction of two names. The NDP faction and the Centr group called for a break when we were in the process of dealing with the issue. Do you mind if we give them a chance to make a statement? Do you mind? Please, Santa Onitchuk, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u60	The Honourable Head, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The Federation of Ukrainian Employers and the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine accepted the application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and asked us to give a statement. As representatives of the Trieste of Employers and Labour Communities, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine and the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine are deeply concerned about the risk of a political crisis flowing into socio-economic growth. In spite of any political situation, employers and employees of the trade unions are working together to ensure the stability of the economy and have the right to demand that the Ukrainian National Deputies properly carry out their duties. Ukrainian citizens have the right to control the actions of those whom they have entrusted with the protection of their own interests. The Federation of Ukrainian Employers and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions endorse the actions of the national MPs who today make nation-specific decisions in difficult circumstances. They express their firm support for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which at this crucial time demonstrates a balanced position. At the same time, employers and trade unions are deeply concerned about the manifestations of passivity and incoherence on the part of its part of the MP. Employees and business executives felt the administrative pressure of the day before the election. The decision of the Central Electoral Commission, which announced the official results of the elections without considering the numerous complaints of a violation of the electoral process, has made a significant difference, despite the rallies of popular rallies, protests, and warnings of the world’s public. Such actions have nothing to do with the Ukrainian people’s desire for democracy and the rule of law. We are confident and welcome that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not gone beyond social processes, as it must ensure that constitutional rights and freedoms of all citizens of Ukraine are respected. And we demand that Ukraine's national deputies take decisive steps to overcome the political crisis, to make immediate decisions to ensure that the second round of elections is voted on. For the Employers' Federation. First Deputy Head of the Employers' Federation, Vladimir Grishchenko, for the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, acting as head of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, Vladimir Osov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, it is suggested that we continue to organize our work: there will be a temporary special committee meeting at 12 o'clock to finalize the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 4180. Yes, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Board on the third floor of the sitting room at 2 p.m. At 16 p.m., a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If there's no objection, now we could take a break so that you can work in factions, groups and committees. It's 4:00 p.m. I'm meeting you here in the session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 4:00 p.m. a.m. Thank you.
