ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:06]] Registered -422 442 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Anisimov Viacheslav Alexanderovich. Let us welcome him to all the good things in his life and success in parliamentary activities. In line with the Rules today, the Supreme Council takes decisions. You have a schedule for today, for Thursday. So we have every reason to continue our work. Yet two factions of our Ukraine and Yulia Timoshenko insist on a break of 30 minutes. I understand I'm trying to persuade the deputies to continue the work that no unforeseen events are planned for us today. So maybe you'll say what you need, and that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I announced that I had started a meeting. I'll get it. Here's the thing. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say that there will be nothing unforeseeable. There's a schedule, we'll be working exclusively and clearly on schedule. Does that suit you? So it's a break of 10 hours, 30 minutes. The initiator authors have already agreed. All of it. Let's work, please. Break until 10 o'clock 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. I'm asking you, from the factions that took the break, Mikola Tomenko, please. What was the information during the break?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the position of three factions -- "Our Ukraine", the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, regarding the situation that has arisen in the media of Ukraine. You know, in recent times, there's been a plan to clean up independent media. Yesterday was the next step after the appropriate actions were taken with regard to Freedom Radio, Radio Rox, Rural News. Yesterday, contrary to or without a decision of the National Council, without a decision, Statecommunity officials stopped broadcasting the radio “Continent” on which a whole range of both Ukrainian and foreign speakers worked, particularly the “Citizen Radio”, the radio “Freedom”, the “German Wave”, the BBC and others. Today there is a situation that, despite all the government’s claims that it provides freedom of speech, the media disappears from the Ukrainian information space one by one every day. Yesterday we again witnessed journalists being killed again in Ukraine. Yesterday, George Chechek, a well - known Polish journalist, was killed, and during the past few months, he was asked by the Attorney General to intervene without delay in obstructing his activities as the head of the television company, where he was searched, evicted, and his journalists from the television company. Since no one has responded, this ended with a conditional report of a car crash, but I think that in Ukraine, car accidents with politicians and journalists have purely professional political meaning. The situation is so acute that it looks like a farce when the government makes a decision on our requirements, and no one is going to implement the government’s decision. I was talking about Radio Rox is the exclusion of one representative of the Sanitary Epidemiology Service. Victor Janukovic made a decision two weeks ago, and no one did anything. So our demands are as follows: immediately cancel the decision of the Statecommunity and broadcast it to Radio Continent, because the decision is illegal. At 16 p.m. today, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, we demand that we set up a moratorium on the verification of the media, because we understand that the fifth channel, the regional newspapers, and about ten editions that now want to be closed. And we demand that tomorrow morning we listen to Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic's information, who should inform us what the government is doing and what the position of the government is when journalists are killed and the media in Ukraine are closed daily. At the end of the day, that's one word for all of us, the situation has already come up with such signs that we're about to be hit by the Voice of Ukraine. A newspaper founded by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, on the committee, we discussed the court’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u4	Yes, there is a problem, my fellow Members, with the Voice of Ukraine, because they've filed a lawsuit about 700. Five hundred thousand dollars. If such a decision is made, the newspaper will have to be stopped for a time. Now, dear fellows. Who wants motive, please, five minutes. Sign up. Well, there's one company calling both the author and the newspaper. Please state the name of the deputies on the board. Five minutes of procedure and motive. It's about determination. Let's do it today, but we have a first order: a moratorium on testing. Let's take a look at it today, work to see everyone. We have the opportunity to look at everything. With regard to the information you're proposing to the Prime Minister, I'd like you to know that the Prime Minister is going to Macedonia for the funeral of the President of Macedonia. And on the other hand, please let's make up our minds, let's make up our minds. It's all by the book. Please put names on the board. Sergey Ratushniak, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we had a good offer and we had the right decisions. Now, I would like to propose that, until the end of the election campaign of the President of Ukraine, all the controlling fiscal authorities should check the media. For violating this order now, I strongly propose that appropriate amendments be made to the Criminal Code for the criminal responsibility of those who ignore this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u6	Basil Nadrag. People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u7	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I still want to ask you, because, unfortunately, no one in this room can do anything. It's very appropriate today to offer our esteemed speaker that we have an order of the day. And according to this order, there is a mass of necessary and useful laws, absolutely nothing to do with any global problems that we have already discussed with you in this room. They need to be voted. To vote on the laws, we must vote on very serious and important topics on the days of the Government so that we can continue to work in this room. That's why I'm talking to everyone, no matter what. My dears, if we go back on the intermissions and scandals and everything else, there will be no explanation. You and I have an agenda. And according to this order, let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u8	Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u9	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have learned that you signed a decree that was reportedly voted yesterday. Instead, I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to look at the Rules and determine whether this decree was voted in accordance with the Rules. I draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, in ad hoc mode, this ruling was voted on. Please check the transcript. On whose proposal was a vote to vote in the ad hoc regime yesterday, because I don't find it in the transcript that any of the subjects of the legislative initiative would make such an offer. Now, let's talk about the current situation. The head of the procurator’s Committee on Freedom of Speech announced very specific requirements. Some of them are subject to your authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u10	Calm down, please. Three minutes. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u11	Please give the word to Lechchenk Volodymyr Alexiyovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u13	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your and the national deputies' attention to the issues of the APC and land issues. There's something in Parliament that's left behind. I mean, on Tuesday, during the vote, we stopped at two questions about the APC. These are 4361 and land issues. And today, in section "In summary," there were again 10 urgent questions before him, and they're on their 11th. I think we need to move these questions in section "In summary procedure," to look at the first and then all the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u14	This is, on condition, honourable colleagues, when we return to the old practice after considering every bill making a decision. I'll do it then. I fully support this position. Please, Sithina, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u15	I'm handing over Vasuk. May I have the word of Vasuk, national deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u16	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Indeed, today is a very responsible day. We all know what important laws are in the order of the day. And speaking to all fellow members of the national MPs, our faction is very much asking us to consider and support two very important bills today: the value added tax, the return of it to the exporters of Group 1.24, i.e. those who implement agricultural production and the difference of 13 percent tax on the agricultural holdings, the gardens, the gardens, the gardens, the cottages. It's a fundamental question. So we are particularly excited to address everyone and ask that today’s workday be active, full so that we can look at everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u18	Leukyanko, last one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u19	Leukko Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Deputies! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear voters! I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are actually witnessing with you the unfolding of the gang's methods of managing society. We have a total offensive to freedom of speech. Armed forces are being used, someone is sending armed men to five or six men, and Kirilchuku, for example, was burned down by a garage, Chobota, with two thousand booklets in the garage that someone didn't like, six armed with civilians, burned, locked up, tied up the guards and so on. The writer’s association, which was meeting for its legal assembly, also took over.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! We're running out of time, as we agreed, to ask questions of procedure and motive. A draft decree to terminate the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Pavlovski is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council Valentin Grigorovich Matviev Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, it has been a week since our colleague Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski passed away, and unfortunately I repeat, we need to consider putting an end to the mandate of National Deputy Mikhail Antonovich Pavlovski. The draft decision is given to all of you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u22	I am putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Pavlovski. [[10:42:01]] For 369 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the Cessation of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Kiwalov, is being announced for consideration. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u23	In connection with the election of the head of the Central Electoral Commission, national deputy Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich made a statement to the Supreme Council, making a personal application for his appointment. Yesterday, the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council reviewed this application and submitted to you a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u24	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u25	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Valentin Grigorovovich, please inform us, if you can, that we have long worked in the government of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Tolstouchov, Kljev, Slavuta and so on. How is the question of completing the credentials of MPs on their part resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u26	Thank you. Yesterday only the Committee on Rules received a letter from the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, requesting that the issue of coexistence be considered, namely, to combine the exercise of their official powers with the powers of the national deputy. I mean, Vladimir Alexiyovich, especially those people's deputies you called. But in addition to these, there is a committee commission in the letter and the National Deputies of Onopenko and Moses, who now combine the powers of the National Deputy and Judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u27	Manchulenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u28	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party "Our Ukraine". I have a question for both the chairman of the Rules Committee and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Still, how many co-conspirators are there for today. How does the Rules Committee see the solution? And to you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the Civil Procedure Code provides for a standard of appeal to the court if the deputies voluntarily refuse to comply with the requirement of the Constitution for non-conformity of the parliamentary mandate with other activities other than creative activities. Therefore, you must be brought to justice as Head of Parliament. Thank you. I want an answer from both the committee and our head.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u29	Thank you. So I repeat, today is clearly defined by law: they're combining, they're combining the performance of MPs and their official powers, such as the Tolstow civil servants, the Tolstow national deputies, the Clovis, the Slav. Zločevski. In addition, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, the Platinum Deputy, and I have also spoken and repeated, the two National Deputies are Onopenko and Moses, who combine the exercise of parliamentary powers with the authorization of the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. What is involved in making a decision. The committee will consider, I said, that yesterday only a letter from the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had arrived, would consider at its meeting this letter and make the appropriate decision. It will certainly meet the requirements of the Constitution and the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, which clearly records and, in particular, defines the powers of the Head of the Supreme Council regarding those deputies who do not constitute a mandate for one reason or another, that is, an appeal to the relevant court to resolve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u30	Vasil Onopenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll give you a brief line. Onopenko and Moses do not mix their activities with that of the judges. We're not in the Supreme Court, we don't get a salary, we don't get a case, we don't even deal with a chair, we don't have a cabinet. That's why there's no complacency here. But I understand that this is an interpretation of the law, and it will soon be given to the appropriate authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u32	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. But there is a mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, and the committee will consider it. We know that the proper filing of the Head is in court, and the court is considering your particular case. At the committee meeting, we will be clear on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u33	The question was to me, and I will answer it. Dear colleagues, I have indeed asked the Committee on Rules of Procedure to deliver their verdict. After that, I will address the Kyiv Court of Appeal. But I have to be honest with you that referring to a court, we have some references that lie, they lie motionless, because they apply any influence, any methods to delay, to bear this question. We need to understand here in the MP's corps so that the MPs can figure out where they're working. Either it's in executive power or it's in the legislature. And when changes to the Constitution are made, then we will proceed according to what changes will be made, and now we just have to make a decision for ourselves, first of all, so that people don't get mixed up in these appeals to the court, and in which these issues are not being considered, or are being kept under constant review, or are being delayed in the consideration of these issues. I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, registration number 5216: "On the permanent termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Kiwalov." [[10:49:19]] For 263 Decision taken. The draft regulations on the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the activity programme - openness, effectiveness, efficiency and "On the Government Day in Ukraine in March 2004 on the implementation of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine - openness, effectiveness, efficiency" are being announced. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, please. As the author of the draft decision. Get ready for Stepan Gavrish. Who Will Come From the Group? Please identify your peers, your second decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues, we consider it necessary to make a thorough, impartial analysis of the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers' programme of activities - openness, effectiveness, efficiency at the Supreme Council meeting. This year's budget, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, is evidence of an unqualified approach to this country's main document, and the 400-1 veto is a testimony to the complete collapse of the government's economic policy. In the real economy, the government is pursuing a policy of supporting separate financial and political groups, countering large capital to small and medium-sized businesses. The government’s repeated attempts to smother a small entrepreneur who has created jobs not only for his family but also for other unemployed citizens have become unprecedented. These are also repeated attempts to eliminate the simplified taxation system and the holographic suffering that, under public pressure and personal intervention by the President of Ukraine, has been postponed until after the election. So the government actually stood up as an enemy of a small and medium-sized entrepreneur. At the same time, despite the government’s efforts, Ukraine’s economy continues to grow dynamically. I voted in favour of the programs of the current Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and I believe that this government has deceived me, deceived millions of ordinary people by promising one and implementing another. That is why we demand a report from this government in April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u35	Questions, please. Sign up, three minutes on the question. Sign up. That's a question. Please, Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u36	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Uliy Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u37	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear reporter! That's my question. Now we have two rulings from this subject: yours and Tolstoy, the Richter, and so on. Please tell us how these decisions differ, and how do you recommend that we vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the decision that we propose provides for a government report, and it provides information. So the attempt is going to re-do the glossy report, as it was on Saturday. We want a real, thorough analysis of whether there is still a supply of ideas and whether we are still able to produce economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u40	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I wanted to ask you this question. And can you say that in a few years of working in an independent Ukraine, listening to the Cabinet of Ministers in the days of the government gave something positive? Is this again the same thing as always? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u42	I think this year the Supreme Council started a completely normal, civilized case: we're listening to reports from individual ministers and government officials and their deputies at committee meetings, we have complete information. In this regard, objectively speaking, the government’s and the Supreme Council’s ties have improved considerably. I want an unbiased analysis, and I want to do it anyway, if a program was adopted, and part of the people's deputies think that this program is completely different, and we need to listen carefully and make the right decision here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u43	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u44	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, you have raised the issue of small and medium-sized business in your motivation. So maybe it's easier to spend a government day on small and medium-sized business issues, and then look at the subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u45	If we, my dear colleague, address only this narrow issue, there will be nothing to consider next year. And I understand that, given what you are specializing in, I think that the issues of pension reform, how it is actually being implemented, its scenario as it goes, I don't think it satisfies the people's deputies of Ukraine today. Social issues will, of course, be required. I was just speaking for 50 seconds, I just think it's a technical question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u46	Mikhailo Melniczuk. I support you, Yuri Ivanovich, that this is a technical issue, let us continue to consider the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Valentina Seminouk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u48	Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u49	Semenyuk. The faction of the Socialist Party. Jury Ivanovich, I support you with regard to this question on the report of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I would like you to be prepared especially by Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and more to you, however, to examine what instructions the President had given to the adoption of documents, the more faithful legislative documents and how they had been accepted. For example, the games around the government property management law, when the Cabinet of Ministers submits a bill, are seen by the same ministers, we adopt it in the first reading, and then the same ministers write that there is no need for such a law, regardless of the fact that there is such a document in the two letters of the President. That's why I think that some of the documents they should give to Parliament that we've accepted and that are actually committed to by the same ministers that gave them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u50	Thank you. I think it's not just these questions. There's also an address from the Attorney General's Office and so forth, and your commission. They really need to be carefully examined and reported to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u51	Time's up. Out of procedure, please, Assadchev. Prepare for the second decision. Is there a need to make a second decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u52	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm out of procedure. The thing is, in the daytime, I don't think it's fully shaped what's going to happen in March. A question has to be formed. If this is the report, the report has legal consequences. The legal consequences cannot be applied to the government programme before the year has passed. So it makes sense here that, let's say, if this is a question in March, it can only be as informative. And if as a report, because it can bring legal consequences, then logically in April. So I'd like to find out at this point: if March, I think it's the right people who ask questions about information, and if as a report, then after a year, after the program. This procedural question needs to be examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, it is not written in the Constitution when the government reports whether a year later the program is being implemented or just for its activities during the calendar year, so there are two regulations. The first decision is to listen to the April 20 report, and the second decision proposes to include issues in the agenda on the Program of Activity of the Cabinet of Ministers: Openness, Effectiveness, Efficiency and Implementation, and it's not about whether it's information or whether it's a report. Please, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Gurenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Committee on Economic Policy. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It happened that the committee did not address this issue, but it is, in fact, at the centre of the committee’s attention, constantly being discussed. And I would like to say that, regardless of political affiliation, all the members of the committee agree that the economic policy situation is extremely uncertain, ambiguous, as they say, and it needs to be discussed in detail in the Supreme Council Hall. So I would like to support the introduction of both the agenda and the vote in favour of both decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, is this a discussion or what this is? Please, Manchulenka. Then Pehota. And let's vote. We delay technical questions for an indefinite period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u56	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! If you put together two draft decrees, the first to be represented by a colleague of Yuri Yehanurov's factions, and the second to be made by representatives of the parliamentary majority, there are said to be two major differences. The draft decree of Yehanurov raises a clear question, and draft regulation 5064-1 includes the agenda of the agenda. It's information or a report, or they just want to listen to the government, how it works well, how it's reduced pensions, how it doesn't pay pensions, how it increases debt on the salaries of budget workers, how other social issues, how it raises the price of bread. People are extremely "satisfied" with the work of this government. If this does not hurt us as the people do, let us play along with the rulings of the majority. If we want to talk essentially. So you have to say essentially that this government is taking us to a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u57	Vladimir Pehota.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There's a third decision that's being made in exchange for the previous ruling, where I was also the author. This is Decree 5064-1, signed by Bogotyrov, Tolstouchov, Gavrish, and Hapochka. I request that this decree be put to the vote instead of the one I was the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u59	That's what I'm going to do, dear colleagues. Yuri Carmazin, then Pinzenik and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u60	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The second decision is not an alternative. If the first decision made by Yehanurov is entirely from the Constitution, from the Supreme Council Rules, where there is a clear question about the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Programme of Action, and it has already been called this program, "Openness, effectiveness and effectiveness." The efficiency, maybe, is 7 billion. is not included in the budget, performance is probably not in the other, openness is not in the budget, effectiveness is not in the same place. That's the other 5064, which was executed in two variations, February 11th and March 4th, it was just being handed out, it's just written -- it's included in the agenda of the day session the question of the Activity Programme. It's absolutely not an alternative, they have to be divorced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u61	Yes, Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are obliged to listen to the government's information on the implementation of the Cabinet's Programme of Action. But I ask you to pay attention to the faction of the Regions and the other colleagues who made the second draft of the decree, the motivations of this decision. To this end, I will read to you the position of article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine: "The question of the responsibility of the government cannot be considered by the Supreme Council more than once during another session, and also within a year after the approval of the Government's Programme of Action." What does that mean? March’s consideration cannot end with legal consequences, a question of mistrust and rejection. On the other hand, the issue of mistrust is inevitable or is likely to arise after April, after the program is completed. Therefore, there is no point in voting for the March decree, even though we understand the motives of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, in the order of coming, I'm putting the vote to the vote. May I have your attention, please? The first is the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision No. 5064, the authors of Yehanurov, Polishchuk, Aloshin, the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Openness, Performance and Performance Programme. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:03:29]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a project number 5064-1 in exchange for the earlier draft decree of 4.03.2004 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "Openness, effectiveness, efficiency" and its implementation. Authors: Richter, Tolstoy, Gavrish, Hooker, and others. Please vote. [[11:04:34]] For 366 Thank you. Gmira, please turn on the microphone. People's MP, Communist faction, the gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u64	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have an offer to clarify this editorially. The fact is, in both the first and the second versions, there is a significant lack of “to carry it out”. The programme is not designed for a year, so it should be written editorially “to implement it” or “to implement it”. Then that's for sure. Otherwise, we repeal the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Unfortunately, we have already voted. Yeah, it's about the program. We'll understand what it's about how it's done. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in April 2004 on the current state of pensions and the introduction of pension insurance in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter Victor Pinzenik. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask these technical questions to consider, because the factions are already defined, without the agitation of each other. We're not going to be able to look at those urgent bills that we've been campaigning for. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, there is no greater incentive for a third of Ukrainian citizens than the so - called pension reform. Many citizens associated with this hope of improving their pension insurance, and unfortunately, they were deeply disappointed. We've already raised the issue several times, and our colleagues have raised the issue that the government has grossly violated the rules of the current law, by which it has lowered the pension base from 376 to 306 dollars. And the fact that a few days ago in the Supreme Council of Ukraine there was an attempt to correct the law under the rule of government is a recognition that the government broke the law. It's different. The so - called pension reform preserves and reinforces discriminatory standards in many categories of citizens. There are special chosen ones. systems, for the most part, have saved other conditions, much worse pension conditions. Pensioners are discriminated against in science and technology. In spite of the stated rules of law, one part of the workers is entitled to one pension, and another part cannot exercise that right. And the problems that have accumulated with pension insurance, we have no right to avoid considering them. We made proposals to consider the matter in March. Unfortunately, it was not, nor was it supported by the Supreme Council. We believe that we have something to discuss with the government to make adjustments to the pensions of Ukrainian citizens. Please support the Government's Day of Retirement in April of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, do we still need to listen? Please, the position of the committee is Peter Stepanovich Zibenko, head of the committee. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, today really in society for the absolute majority of the most disadvantaged Ukraine, namely, most pensioners, there is no more painful problem and more pressing problem than pension reform. It's not surprising and it can't be any different, given that 80 percent of today's pensioners, and that's about 9 to 10 million of the most underprivileged citizens, once again, have gotten from this so-called increase from 2 dollars to 6 dollars 30 copies. The same part of Ukrainian citizens is thus deprived of even the possibility of the theoretical possibility of improving their material position. We are really getting into this problem for the second time. Last time, unfortunately, representatives of the very governing pro-presidential majority did not support the Supreme Council Resolution on Government Day for this extremely painful problem. The committee considered and supported the draft decision at its meeting. I ask all the deputies, all the colleagues and the opposition, and especially the majority to support this draft decision. I think that in the majority, given the timetable of the Supreme Council meetings, there will obviously be arguments to convince both the opposition and especially the disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine that they do not understand the great benefit they have done for them. Please support this motion for a ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in April 2004 on the current state of pensions and the introduction of pension insurance in Ukraine, registration number 5164. [[11:10:06]] For 256 It's been decided. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in May 2004 on the state and prospects of innovation in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Is there a need to report him? You don't? Then I put to the vote the committee's proposal to adopt a draft decision on the Ukrainian Government's Day in May 2004 on the state and prospects of innovation in Ukraine, registration number 4530. Please vote. [[11:10:57]] For 387 Decision taken. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in May 2004 on compliance with the requirements of legislation on support for agricultural production and the priority social development of the village in Ukraine in 2004 is being announced for consideration. Reporter Calinchuk Vasil Antonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On February 18, 2004, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations discussed at its meeting a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the Day of Government of Ukraine in May 2004. The draft regulation provides for the holding of the Government's day-to-day agenda in May 2004 of the Government's Day to meet the requirements of legislation on the promotion of agro-industrial production and the priority of rural social development in Ukraine to create effective mechanisms for their development in the future. As noted at the committee meeting, despite some support from the State, both the economic and financial situation of agribusiness enterprises remains complex. Social infrastructure in rural areas needs special attention: the construction of schools, hospitals, the gasification of rural areas, the provision of drinking water, the creation of the necessary living conditions for young professionals, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and on this basis the creation of additional jobs and the reduction of actual unemployment in rural areas. This requires a detailed analysis of the implementation of legislation already adopted, such as grain and grain markets in Ukraine, the protection of the rights of agricultural car buyers, the promotion of the development of domestic machinery for the APC, land melioration, agricultural co-operation, the state regulation of agricultural imports, the Ukrainian State Budget 2004 Act. At the same time, a number of laws and government regulations need to be adopted with the aim of getting the APC out of crisis, and the need to review the system of taxation and state support for agriculture, and to amend the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance for Agricultural Workers, etc. With the aim of working together with the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the further development of agro-industry production, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the holding in May 2004 of the Government of Ukraine" is being introduced. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations unanimously decided and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft as a basis and as a whole. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this project, which will allow the introduction of proposals to provide objective information on the economic and social development of the village at present and to identify measures to improve it. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, one minute, I'd like to make a point. We voted on the previous draft of the Government Day Decision. I said he'd be in May. This is about the state and prospects of innovation in Ukraine. I checked with the decision-making project-- it'll be in June. So we don't have any matches here. That's what I'm saying for the transcript. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u72	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. We will have to listen to this decision. We do this: we get down, we move everything in agriculture, and then people start rebuilding. But it has to be done. But I have a question like this. Why is there no question in this room about government information being done in the country today? There's no fuel, there's no fertilizer, there's no seed, there's no money to plant. When that's a question. When will the government be able to inform what is being done in the country with the support of the village today, when the spring-field work has begun? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, we have voted nearly 400 votes to consider the implementation of the government's programme of activities on March 16th. Let us ask and ask all these questions. I think we'll take the right time. Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u74	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vassil Antonovich, until the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee manages the agrarian government block, followed by the Agrarian Party, there will be no interpretation in the village. I believe that consideration of this issue is necessary, but not in May. It'll be late. It's for the branch. We need to look at it right before spring and field work. Don't you think we should go back to ours? to our proposal and to vote on Decree 5071 and to consider this issue in March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u75	As Volodymira Mikhailovich has already said, we will be looking at the whole government report block in March. There we will also look in a separate direction at the agrarian sector of the economy. As far as this bill is concerned, as you know, at the committee meeting, we said that we would talk not only about 2004 but about further development for the future. And to be honest, we have to go our way. I'll refer to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In one of your speeches, you said that 2005, with the adoption of the 2005 budget, it would have to be a year in the village. And we should point out what it means to be a village year in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u76	See, quote. Katerina Vaschuk, please. It's already going to be a discussion, dear colleagues, it's an evening of answers and questions. Let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! The issue raised on the Government’s Day for May relates to compliance with the requirements of legislation to support not only agricultural production but also the priority of rural social development. This question is very large, very powerful. And why are we asking him to consider it in May? A new budget will be started. That's when we figure out that according to our laws adopted in this room and, by the way, initiated by the agrarian faction, Ukraine's budget is going to be formed, and it's going to be based on the social development of the village as much as it has in our laws, then development will be. That's when we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u78	Ivan Tomic. Dear colleagues! That's what you're talking about. That's it, the question's over. Time's up. Ivan Tomic, please ask me a question. It's a question, but it's in the form of performances. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Today, there is a deep crisis in the Ukrainian village with regard to social development. Therefore, the enforcement of laws that affect both the production and social relations in the village is extremely important. It is a practice that emphasizes that failure in the financial sector and the development of the perspective of the sector require an integrated approach to solving the problem. Hence, it is for this very purpose that the matter is being considered. With regard to the influence of the agrarian bloc of government, I am authoritatively asserting today that the decision is taken in accordance with a situation in the Ukrainian village following a bill that is before the Committee of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Nigger! Well, you're a military specialist, you know. Okay, you'll ask. I, my dear fellows, would like to propose: let us determine one question for a day, and we will have to ask one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I have questions in fact. I can no longer listen when we ask questions about the need to support agriculture in this room. This is a completely wrong and incorrect question. It's not about support, it's about creating a normal enabling environment for agriculture, parity of prices, cost-effectiveness, income distribution for the manufacturer, not for the intermediary, not for the trade, not for the processor. It's not support, it's creating normal conditions for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u82	Well, you've completely deciphered the question. You deciphered it. I'd tell more than just a man of science. I'd say that when we talk about supporting the agricultural sector of the economy, we're actually talking about supporting our citizens because our citizens are eating the products of this sector. You said exactly right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u83	Thank you. George Manchulenko, last question. George Manchulenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. An honourable reporter, respected colleagues, many deputies elected from one-manage majority districts, is concerned about the situation in the agricultural sector, such as the problem of land degradation, and the problem of property pits. On many occasions in the district, when I receive voters or when I meet them, I am approached by elderly people who count the value of the pie in the gasification account, the wrong number of the pie, everything else. In fact, in many cases people are deceived. So this is an extremely acute problem, and it also needs to be raised to the general Ukrainian level, to the parliamentary rostrum, to listen and to take action to those people who do not even adhere to the current legislation. Please, your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u85	I will tell you, my colleague, that the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has scheduled a travel meeting in the Chernigiv region on September 10th on this very issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u86	May I have your attention, please? Voting rate for adoption as a whole Decisions on the “Day of the Government of Ukraine” in May 2004. [[on compliance with the requirements of legislation on support for agri-industrial production and the priority of rural social development in Ukraine in 2004]] Registration number 5146. Please vote. [[11:22:39]] For 366 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Food Security is under review. But first we need to put this in the agenda, it's not in order of day. So let's first define the order of the day, and then you'll report it. If we turn it on, then what? We need to get him into his day-to-day routine. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Food Security. Registration number 3738. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[11:23:35]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. It's not included in the agenda. I want to say again in English, this is a question on the agenda. But it has to be put into the agenda and then looked at, it's not in the agenda. Check it out, please. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the draft of the 190th anniversary of T.H. Shevchenka's birth. Now I'm going to put the vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda, because it's not included, and then we're going to be defined. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day's project. "On the celebration of the 190th anniversary of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk." Registration number 5215. Please vote. [[11:24:46]] For 418 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do you not need to discuss it and put it to the vote immediately? Is there no objection? With Alexander Baranowski's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I point out that last year, the authorities, especially the Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, did not carry out our task of publishing the works by Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. You remember how the director of the Kanow Museum was released from his job. So I say that we have to support this decision. And next. Shewchenko always fought for freedom of speech. So we, the socialists, invite you to a rally at Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk Memorial, opposite the State University of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk, where there will be a protest against the pressures of freedom of speech and the celebration of the memory of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. The rally will take place at 2 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let's vote. I suggest where it's said in the section to support the public's initiative to build an ecumenical temple, to release the word “ecumenical” and to write simply a “chmat”. You understand, there's no need to argue. Taking this amendment into account, I am voting on the approval of the entire draft Decision on the budget of Ukraine, "To mark the 190th anniversary of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka", registration number 5215. Please vote. With the amendment I made. [[11:26:49]] For 406 It's been decided. Let's go to "Other Readings." By procedure, please, Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u89	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm with the investigation committee. I'm not referring to this, I'm referring to this whole thing. Article 89 of the Constitution states that the Supreme Council creates temporary commissions of inquiry if at least one third of the constitutional composition votes for it. And this is the direct norm of the Constitution. And there can be no regulatory norm to prevent the implementation of this standard of the Constitution. If we do not meet this direct standard in any way, we should bring them into line, and we have not yet come up with such a situation that the regulatory norm on inclusion in the agenda cancels and makes it impossible for us to comply with the direct norm of the Constitution. I think it's a flaw in the Rules. And you just have to bring it into line, because this is the direct norm of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u90	You've asked the right question logically and correctly. We need to bring the Rules in line with this part of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a draft Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. In this regard, I wanted to tell you the following. This document began to be processed by the General Legal Office. It turns out that there is an enormous amount of work to be done, and there is a need for refinement, including considerable technical work. In addition, we have decided that we will be a draft of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code along with the draft Administrative Procedure Code. So there's an offer: to postpone the consideration of this issue, but last time, on March 18th, and then consider these two bills. Is there no objection? I'm asking you to write this for the transcript as a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in the event of unemployment in respect of loans to business organisations is being announced for consideration. Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor, please, from the committee. Then prepare Pinzenic before the vote on unacceptableness. Let's do some repairs right now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u91	Dear National Deputies! In the first reading, considering the bill, the main question was whether a loan could be issued or on what grounds would be granted for entrepreneurial activities through the Unemployment Social Insurance Fund. I have to say that we're not exactly, or exactly, treating today's review of the law. It's not about issuing a loan or not issuing, and I'm warning that Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic is going to ask the question of inadmissibility, it should be noted that we're not introducing any new norm into the Unemployment Social Insurance Act, we're transferring it from the Employment Act to this law. That's the only thing we have to accept in this law today. So I'm going to report that there were eight amendments to this bill during the preparation of the second reading. All of these eight amendments are included. And I suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, go straight to the amendments and figure out how to proceed. It's a fixer-upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u92	Well, the corrections are taken into account, so there's no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u93	I'm saying if anyone has any questions, please. The point is that we've been lending loans to the unemployed on a rotating basis, but they're not interestless to take on some of the population's self-employment. That's the first one. And the second. At the time this loan was issued, there were no social benefits from the Unemployment Insurance Fund and from the employment centers for the unemployed. Thus, the state does not lose, but the state does allow the population to move from the unemployed to the busy. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u94	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, author of the project on unacceptableness. Then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies. Why I ask my colleagues to pay attention and vote against this law. The creation of an unemployment fund is intended to ensure that citizens are insured in case of loss of employment. Each of us makes such payments — either directly or indirectly — so that when a person loses his job, he gets help during the period of unemployment. In other words, the purpose of this fund is not to create so - called jobs or, frankly, to open up a business for someone. Secondly, I would like to mention the manufacturers who are sitting in this room. It's called the Innovation Fund. When did taxpayers pay their taxes to the Innovation Fund to create a private business: godfather, brother-in-law, brother-in-law? The distribution of funds in so-called interest-free loans is a great condition for abuse and corruption. Let me give you one number that, at my disposal, when I was in the government, I asked you to verify a similar type of operation. So one of the funds -- let me inform you -- 85 percent of the loans issued in this way were returned by the teacher, by the doctor, by the pensioner, by the budget, and only 15 percent were returned by those who took the money. And the last. This rule is contrary to the Constitution. Article 24 provides for the equality of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. The Fund cannot lend to all unemployed people because it has limited resources. And this rule, when all citizens are not entitled, is in violation of the Constitution. I ask you not to vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Mikola Nightshenko, please. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u97	160 constituency. I'm the author of this bill, and I want to make it clear that the reporter simply said for what purposes unemployment fund funds are being raised. The cost of this fund is used not only for compensation to the unemployed but also for social assistance, but also for retraining, retraining, and job creation. A market mechanism for overcoming poverty is proposed. Unemployment, I'm sorry. Poverty in general. And I'd like to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am the first to put the draft decree of the People's Deputies to the vote. the author of which is the People's Deputy Pinzenik, on the non-admissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment in respect of interest-free loans for business organisations. Registration number of draft regulation 3644-p1. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:35:18]] For 111 Draft decision not adopted, not supported. I am voting on the adoption of a second reading and, in general, as a bill of the draft law amending the Law of Ukraine on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment in respect of loans for business organizations. Registration number 3644. Please vote. [[11:35:57]] For a hundred and The law is not adopted. What's the committee's offer? Is it? You don't? Please, Mikola Nightshenko. Dear colleagues! We have to follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u99	Thank you. This bill awaits millions of unemployed. There is a request to re-send the second reading. Please put to the vote. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for the second reading, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u100	I'm making a motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 3644]] Change the vote. Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! There is a worst-case proposal for a second, but I would like to explain the nature of this law very useful and necessary. Today we give a allowance to a peasant who will receive a benefit, that is, we feed him fish. This law provides an opportunity to catch the fish and catch it. There is therefore a request, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to vote because many deputies have not understood what is being said. Or not re-reading the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! There will be no voting. If the MPs want to understand, they understand right away, we have smart MPs. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to re-read the draft law, re-read it. [[Registration number 3644]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:55]] For 226 Decision taken. A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[about the local police]] Alexander Markovich Bandurka, please. A committee proposal. Let's go straight to the repairs, dear fellows. We're behind schedule for our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u103	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I just wanted to remind you that the law that we've already adopted, "About the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs," is the functioning and establishment of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. That is why the law that we introduce in the second reading refers to changes in Ukraine’s legislation regarding the local police. The second reading received 12 different types of suggestions, six of which were counted, six rejected. We can go on offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, first amendment, do you insist on it? Yuri Anatolyovich? Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u105	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity. Dear National Deputies! I'd like you to review the title of the bill and call it not "local police," because they'll call it "city," whatever it is, "local government militia." This is in absolute harmony with the content of this law, the spirit of this law. Well, in established practice, which is also in Western democracies, and that's what we've been through. What's "local police"? He'll come and say, "I'm from the locals, right?" With such terms. Why would you do that? And that's how it's going to represent, "I'm with the local self-government police," a person will be represented. Well, think about what it sounds like. I don't understand why the committee is resisting. Let's not build the weather on this. Please support me, Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u106	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I wanted, first of all, the Law that we passed, the already-predicted "city militia" name. And it's made up of traffic control units, the post office, the departmental police inspectors, receivers for minors, receivers for persons under administrative arrest. So let's say that the receiver for minors can serve not one district, but be an interdisciplinary service, or a road patrol service, not one district, but more. That's why it's more specific and appropriate to call it the local police. But, Your Honor, let's vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u107	I'm putting to the vote an offer under the number one national deputy Yuri Karmazin. [[11:41:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Who else insists on reforming their own? May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee. Please change. Is your amendment correct? For the reasons of the vote, please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u108	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this law allows the police to finance from two budgets, i.e. local and state budgets, are now making it possible from the locals. The police will strangle local mayors, spend money on their funding. That's the first one. The second question. Today, the number of militias is 220 thousand, not a set of 8 percent or 18,000. At the same time, they're asking us to add 12,000. Please tell me, what's going on? Please make up the 18,000 that you lack, and you'll have enough to deal with crime and to have inspectors and district inspectors on the road and all that. There's something to decide. But they also, by increasing the number without selecting a set, have the costs that are then used by a non-destination. So I urge you to be firm against voting on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u109	I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u110	I want to say I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, there is no need to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u112	Well, if there's a misinformation of MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u113	I put it to a vote, that's for reasons, that's why they need comments. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on local police, registration number 3356. Please vote. [[11:43:15]] For 288 The law is passed. That is what I said in the second reading and generally as a law. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's second reading proposal and generally as a law. That was the committee's offer. The law is passed. By factions, please explain. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation to protect the population from noise. But in view of the fact that the proposals of a number of national deputies are not included here, they addressed me with the appropriate letter, and the committee agreed with their argument, there is a proposal by the committee to postpone the consideration of the bill for the next plenary week. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Oil and Gas Act is being announced for consideration. Reporter Rudzikowski, please. Rudzkowski will report to the TSC. Maybe someone will report from the committee? Please, Igor Francchuk, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Fuel and Energy Complex and Nuclear Security considered the amendments that had been made following the adoption of the Law on the Amendments to the Oil and Gas Act at its meeting and invited Parliament to adopt it on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Amendment four, Yuri Solomatin, do you insist on it? Put it to a vote, right? I'm voting for amendment number four Yuri Solomatin, this is page four, please look at the honourable colleagues. [[11:45:40.]] For-54 Correction not accepted. Amendment six, seven, eight, and nine. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Are you insisting on her? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a very serious law. I would like to see a forensic analysis of the consequences of the adoption of this law in the first place. He's very serious. So I ask you to take the amendments seriously. In article 13, paragraph 2 of part one of article 13, I propose that we write, "For geological study of naphthas, including research and industrial development." It's where the licenses are needed. The seventh amendment, to put it out, also to add "industry development of genealogies." And the eighth, "for industrial development of discovered genealogies." In the ninth amendment, paragraph 5, part 1 of article 13, I ask you to exclude. You look at the content, and I don't understand why the committee doesn't agree to take this amendment into account. I just have a question right now for Igor Francchuk: why is there an explanation for the committee that this is?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u117	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, the question is that these amendments increase the number of licences, thus breaking the chain that today must be continuous from geological exploration with subsequent industrial exploitation. And we have considered this very carefully at the meeting of the Committee, and we believe that the provisions that exist today in the current law should be left to the extent that they exist and do not break the chain.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u118	I'm voting on amendment number six, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. [[11:48:12]] For-67 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on amendment number seven, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:48:33]] For-64 Correction not accepted. I'm voting on Amendment No.8, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:48:53]] For-65 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm voting on Amendment No. 9 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:49:13]] For-75 Correction not accepted. Amendment No.10 Yuri Karmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, insist. Microphone, please. And make your 12th amendment right away, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u119	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask everyone to understand what this is about. The point is that rules are written when they are properly available. a special permit for the use of naphtha-gas naphtha is transformed into a specially authorized Central Authority of Executive from geological research and security within 30 days of the submission of applications and relevant documents to the successors. I mean, someone bribed someone, someone gave someone something, someone, something went into debt, someone made a decision, and it's about bullying, it's about the wealth of the country. So I want you to think about it. I suggest you delete it. And I don't understand why the committee disagrees. I get it, maybe someone's getting ready to transfer something to an inheritance and so on, I don't think Ukrainian property should be passed on like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u120	I'm voting for Amendment 10 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:50:44]] For the 180. No decision taken. Amendment 39 Yuri Solomatin. Are you insisting on her? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 39 Yuri Solomatin. [[11:51:10]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Amendments 40 and 41 Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. What? What? Oh, I missed 12, I'm sorry. We should put her to the vote, right? Please turn on Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s microphone. The 12th amendment, I jumped it. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u121	Amendment 12 is also of principle. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a part of the first article of article 15, which reads as follows: "Organization and competitions to obtain a special permit for the use of nadrama are conducted by a specially authorized central executive body from geological research and rational use of nadra according to the requirements of this and other laws of Ukraine." That's basically what I'm asking you to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u122	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 12 Yuri Carmazin, this is page 8. [[11:52:30.]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Yuri Anatolyevich, your 40 and 41 amendment, do you insist on it? On page 27, page 27. 40 and 41. All other adjustments are considered essentially. What's next? You should. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! I want you to think about the 40th amendment. [[page 27]] I propose the proposed revision of article 17, part 1, paragraph 1, of article 17, “The geological study of naphthas, including the research and industrial development of land-based crops for no more than five years, on the continental shelf and within the exclusive economic zone for 10 years, to put into such an order:” "The geological study of naphtha-gasogasogen naphtha, including industrial research, no more than five years of production." Why? In five years, both science and technology have changed their approach. What are we now? Let's celebrate it for 10 years and figure it out. I'm told it's against the concept of the bill. What concepts? Increase the terms of these? Five years from now, the new government will come, the new president in five years, the new vision, the new technology will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u124	I'm voting on Amendment 40 Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. [[11:54:39]] For-103 The decision is not taken. 41st Amendment. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u125	Dear National Deputies! I urge you to consider, please, over 41 amendments. Paragraph 2 of Part 1 of article 17 proposed. I remind you: “oil and gas extraction, industrial land yielding for no more than 20 years, on the continental shelf and within the exclusive sea economic zone – no more than 30 years”, to write in the newspaper: “no more than 20 years”. Otherwise, it's not economically justified. This will not, to some extent, protect Ukraine’s full national interests. My amendment is caused only by the protection of Ukraine’s national interests. Understand how important this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u126	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 41 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:55:52]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The same is true of Amendment 43. Right, Yuri Anatolyovich? I put to the vote Amendment 43 Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. It also proposes to reduce from 30 years to 20 years. The 43rd Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:56:25]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 44th Amendment. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! I say, in this case, it's about when we continue to be able to get useful fossils. And so I would like to write this article down in the following wording: "A user of naphtha-gasogasogasogasogasogasogasogens who has properly met the requirements and conditions provided for by a special permit for the use of naphthasogasogaso-drugs and a contract for the use of naphthasogasogaso-drugs has the right to continue the duration of this permit if, under the terms of the new competition, his competitive offer is the same or better than that of other contestants." So when there's equality of conditions, we're saying that if it offers better conditions or not worse than others, it has a prerogative. If not, it's just not possible to allow it with a machine, because it's the economic interests of the state, you know. We need what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u128	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 44 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:57:57]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Amendment 46. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Carmazine? Microphone, please. I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's finish this discussion, then we'll take a break. No objections? So you don't break up. No breaks, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! I would like to pay attention to those who have not read the law that I am now in many ways. Having examined the old law that justified itself over time, I support it, and I say that those rules could not have just been deleted into a covenant with anyone, anyone. And in the 46th amendment, I'm asking this question: "The cost of a special permit to use naphthas starts on the day of receiving a special permit for the use of naphthas." So let me ask you a question. And I would like to vote in favour of that because, in the interests of the State, it is best to start using the license and payment of taxes and not allowing the use of permits in the form of specific financial companies, because in itself the permit can serve as collateral for obtaining different types of loans. In addition, to get to work, he may be 180 at the latest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u130	I'm voting on Amendment 46 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:59:31]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Amendment 47. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist that we vote on her? Please, the microphone. What's the procedure? We're going according to procedure. You'll take it before the vote. Now we're voting on the amendments. Before the final vote. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u131	Dear National Deputies! Well, look what's written down now that's being proposed -- building and operating underground oil or gas dumps for no more than 50 years. I suggest you write it down -- no more than 20 years. Well, don't decide for our grandchildren, you decide for our children, don't decide for our grandchildren. The future must still be in Ukraine and after us, and the future must be bright, good, sovereign and rich and rich. Please don't leave me for 20 years. The time will come, they will trade it with you without us. I insist that we vote in 20 years instead of 50 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u132	I'm voting on amendment number seven, Yuri Carmazin. [[12:00:57]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Yuri Solomatin, 48, do you insist? I put to the vote Amendment 48 Yuri Solomatin. [[12:01:22]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The 49th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please, and immediately your 50th, argue with her, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u133	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't understand why people's deputies can't understand that this future of Ukraine is now being addressed. I propose a part of the first article of article 19 to read: "The parts to which special permits are granted for the use of naphthagasanes should be limited to the appropriate depth and area to be marked on a map that is issued simultaneously with permission and cannot be fully or partially matched for the same types of use of naphthagasanes other than geological study of naphthas." This means that there will be no conflicts, no disputes, and so on. And as for the 50th Amendment, since you gave me now and to speak on it, I have to say that this is a very serious issue. Maximum area area.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u134	Let me finish Yuri Carmazin's argument. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u135	This is about the maximum area available for geological study. The proposed edition, which is written: it can't exceed 500 square kilometers, think about it, and for areas of the black sea with water depths of over 200 meters, the license area is based on a geological and economic assessment of the purpose of the work. I suggest you write that the maximum area available for geological study cannot exceed 500 square miles. So this is the maximum that it can be. Look, we don't have so many square miles that we just ask these questions. It's an entirely economic and technically balanced question, and it's also a legal one. I don't understand why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u136	I'm voting on Amendment 49 of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:03:54]] For-40 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for Amendment 50 of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:04:15]] For-50 Not accepted. Amendment 52 Yuri Karmazin. Are you insisting on Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, for those who are concerned about how many amendments I have left, just as much as it takes to protect Ukraine's national interests. I suggest in part 6 of article 19 that we put it this way. It is now proposed by the committee and the authors. If the found reservoir or the created underground vault goes beyond the oil fields. in use, the size may be increased for this purpose without a contest, so you wrote down if the adjacent area is not given to use. And I suggest you write it down: if the found genealogy or the created underground vault goes beyond the areas of the naphtha-gasogasoline nadr. The use of a geological study on a user's application for this area may be increased by taking into account the requirements of part 5 of article 19 without a competition only if the adjacent area is not put on competition or not put to use, so you understand that these are entirely different problems. I'm asking a question in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u138	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 52 Yuri Karmazin. [[12:05:57]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Amendment 53 Yuri Solomatin Are you insisting on her? I'm voting on Amendment 53 of Yuri Salamatin. Aah! Change the vote. Turn on Yuri Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u139	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is about to conclude a discussion of the amendments made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that an act of national betrayal will now take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nadra is the last remaining property of the Ukrainian people, which was controlled, at least in part, by the Central Authority of the Executive Authority. Now the Council, if it votes in favour of this project, will sign the Ukrainian people's property and the Ukrainian people's right to pervade. Please take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u140	I'm voting for Amendment 53 of Yuri Solomatin. [[12:07:21]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Amendments 56 and 57 of Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! Amendment 56 refers to the essential conditions of the terms and conditions of use, i.e. the conditions which. This will fill the budget. I propose to add a new paragraph 10 to part 3 of article 28 as follows: "The sums and terms of payment to the State Budget for the use of naphtha-gasogaso-drugs." You're all in pain today, national deputies, for the budget, and that's right, and today you don't know where to take the money. Well, that's where the money's to be taken. I'm showing you where to take them, and I'm saying, let's include the sums and the payment terms in the State Budget. These should be substantial terms - of - use agreements. It's in all the countries of the world. Why does Ukraine refuse to do so? Does this suit national interests? So I'm asking you to vote right and left, and maybe I'll take some of my amendments off, but don't destroy this branch any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u142	I'm voting on Amendment 56 of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:09:00]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Amendment 57 Yuri Karmazin What procedure? There's a vote going on, everything's going on. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for allowing you to go through at least one procedure, even though you call these amendments, I thank you very much. To part 5 of article 28, which is called: "The agreement on the conditions for the use of naphthas can be supplemented by other conditions that do not conflict with current legislation and are determined by taking into account the features of the special permit for the use of naphthagasanes, - add part of the sentence - and do not violate Ukraine's economic interests. And to put it this way, it's going to say, "The agreement on the conditions for the use of naphthas can be complemented by other conditions that do not conflict with the current legislation and are determined by taking into account the features of the special permit for the use of naphtha-gaso-gaso-gaso-gaso-gaso-gaso-gaso-work and not violating Ukraine's economic interests." It is the economic interests of Ukraine that must be placed in the title of any law that we adopt, and must penetrate all this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u144	Thank you. Committee position. Does the committee support the amendment, or does it hold that it should be rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u145	Well, we invited Jury Anatoleevich to an amended committee meeting, and we wanted to consider very carefully, because, indeed, when a non-member of the committee on the TEC was referring such a number of issues to a fundamental law, we wanted to address very carefully. Unfortunately, we had to work alone without our colleague Karmazin. We have expressed our views on this amendment in the Committee's decision. And we suggest that the law be considered in the second and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u146	I put to the vote Amendment 57 Yuri Karmazin, this is page 37. [[12:11:26]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Amendment 58. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, do you insist on her? I'm voting on Amendment 58. [[12:11:51]] For-36 Dear colleagues, all the amendments have been voted on. I'll put it to a vote. For reasons, please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u147	For the reasons of Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, a mining geophysic engineer, worked in geological intelligence for almost all of his life. What happened, Vladimir Mikhailovich? What has happened is that the right of the environmental management committee, which belongs to the relevant branch of authority and the central executive branch of natural resources, has been seized by the Texas Committee and has been extended to the interests of the oil - gas barons and their foreheads by a law that is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine. So I'd like to ask all the deputies and everyone who listens to us to understand one more time -- an act of national betrayal is taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u148	Can I put it to a vote? I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Come on, you've already done it. Change the vote. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I'm paying attention to 61 amendments, where it says it's partially accounted for. It's not really counted. I'd like to ask you to conduct a criminological analysis of this project, assign it to me, and ask for it. [[Let the Legal Department conduct]] This is where I proposed. Written and partially counted. In fact, it is rejected. I ask that you approve the standard regulation of the rules and conditions of the contests, the standard forms of documents, the competition commission, the principles of the formation of its personal composition, the grounds, the procedures and the terms of approval for that. So that nothing would be done under the table, that it would all be revealed. This government commission must be given. And I made this proposal. It's rejected, and it's written that it's partially accounted for. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u150	I'm voting on the proposal. Amendment 61 Yuri Karmazin. [[12:14:18]] For 135 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Oil and Gas Act. [[on special permissions deadlines]] Registration number 2327. [[12:14:50]] For 284 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u151	I'm asking the secretariat to invite the deputies to the session room. We'll continue our work. By procedure, please, Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We now have a very interesting event: few of what we did yesterday, as it were, in an illegal way, is actually sitting today, a plenary meeting is going on and a so - called temporary special commission is sitting with him, which is actually a violation of the Rules, article 2.1.1. I can even assure you that those people who are sitting down today and who are officially registered to be on this committee, here, in this room are personally voting, which is a violation and may actually lead to non-recognition, illegal decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would ask you very much if, at the beginning of the session today, you said that we would abide by the Rules, so let us stick to it. The Rules clearly state that committees, committees can meet exclusively between plenary sessions, not directly during plenary meetings. I'd like you to look into it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have here in such a way that the meeting is actually happening there, but the participants, i.e. the members of the Supreme Council, are migrating: they are in the sessional room, so there, I find it difficult to trace the movement of the national MPs. Dear colleagues, let's work. Now it's a matter of procedure. According to the judges, do you have any? According to the judges? Come on. Announced for review. [[Let's get to work, and then we'll get to "Variance"]] Please calm down. That's how it's gonna be for the judges. Let us announce the matter. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5134. I'm asking Vasil Vasilovich for a report, and then we're going to figure out what are the warnings? In addition, I would like to say that, at the request of the leaders of the MP groups and factions, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 14 hours, with the participation of the leaders of the MP groups and factions here in the cabinet, in the Head of the Supreme Council. Please. What, what? Well, please, Valentina Semenyuk microphone by procedure, please. I would like to say that there is Chief of the Supreme Court Vassil Timofiovich Malarenko in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u154	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm here with the opportunity to speak to Mr. Mallarenko, and I want to address him, because in fact the letters that come from the special review committee have not been answered by this time. Regarding the fact that today I sent letters to the judges of the Svetłovodski Court, Pechersky, Shevchenkiski, to the Commission on 23 September 2003 concerning the decisions of the wrong judges concerning the use of the courts in the alienation of state property, particularly at the Clean Metals Plant, Ukrovino, ZLK Zaporozhye from 29 September 2003 to this day, neither the qualified commission nor the Head of the Supreme Court responded to the Special Control Commission on the involvement of those judges who have caused damage to the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, please. One minute, one minute, I'm asking you, and I'm pointing out that we're looking at a draft decision on the election of judges, we're not looking at work today, we're not looking at specific judges, we're not looking at the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, we're not looking at it because it's an independent branch of power. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u157	But with regard to timely responses, I would ask that the answers come in a timely manner, for it is also the right of national deputies to submit a request and to receive an answer within the time limits established by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u158	At its meeting on February 11, this year, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as judges of the appeals courts of many areas of Ukraine, including the local courts. And the appointment of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine as judges of the Supreme Economic Court, the days of the Propetrov, the Zitomirsk, the Kyiv, the interdistrict Lugansk, the appeals, the farm courts, to the local farm courts. The committee took a close look at the candidates. We did not miss the committee of those candidates who had complaints about disciplinary misconduct. And today, you have a number of decisions to consider. We ask for the support of judges who have passed both the Higher Qualifying Commission and have an appropriate level of preparation. In particular, under Decree 5134, it is recommended that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region of Matkovsky Marija Vasilevna, Neshik Rais Illovna, Slobodan Constantine Borisovich, Jarmoshuk Vitalia Venedictovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Hokov Peter Volodymirovich, the Court of Appeal of the Jítomir district of Jíreštenka Anatolia Mikolaajovic, Fomin Yuri Volodymirovic, Jakovljeva Sergia Valentinović; The Court of Appeal of the Zacarpathian District of Bim Magdalene Eugenyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye District of Kalinów Vasil Ivanovich, Nikita Viktor Dementiovich, Pilszczyk Ludmila Volodymyrovna, Jakovenko Galina Petrovna; The Court of Appeal of the Ivano-Frankiv district of Bedoczko Natalija Petrovna, Vakaruk Vera Mikhailnovna, Devlaševska Vitali Anatoliyovich, Dečuk Vasil Mikolaiovich, Krivobokovska Natalija Mikhailnovna, Melinishin Galina Petrovna, Tkakov Nina Volodymyrovna, Khrunjak Evgen Vasilovich, Skribljak Yuri Dmitrovitch; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Romancenk Viktor Alexiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Bakus Vladimir Jaroslavovich, Grinovac Bogdan Mihajlovich, Zazul Igor Evgenovich, Isosimov Leonid Fedorovich, Kit Igor Nestorovich, Mazur Viktor Lukić, Mandroszczuk Evgen Fedorovich, The Intersection of Vasil Alexiyovich, The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Wiszczik Valery Mikolaiovich, Vlasenko Ludmila Grigorovna; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Galyanov Irina Grigorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Montenegrin Region of Pottery George Mikitovich, Zavajan Katerin Ivanovna, the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region of Ivanenko Lilia Volodymyrna, Ishutko Valentina Mikolayovna, Lakiza Hanna Petrovna, Shalupina Volodymira Semenović, Szczerbakov Aleksandra Sergiyovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Amjelina Sergija Yegorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u159	You can't look for him here. Just a minute. Names, please. A maple microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u160	Vladimir Yavorowski. I very much ask, Your Honor Vasil Vasilovich, and Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the time being, to remove two representatives of the Kyiv Court of Appeal from this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u161	The more we have on the list of judges, no candidates for judges, so I'm asking you to put it to a vote, probably in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u162	Shufrich, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you, Vasil Vasilovich reads names, if there's a warning -- you raise your hand, we're off the list, or we're off the candidate list, and we're moving on. Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u163	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vasily Vasilovich, I have a question for you. Tamar Stepanovna's dignitary, Judge of the Ordjonikidev District Court of Zaporozhye, we ask her to be removed from the list, and we have a question for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u164	What's your name?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u165	The digger of Tamara Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u166	This is Decree 5134. There are no digs in the Zaporozhye Court of Appeal. These must be others.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u167	No, it's not. Ordjonikidzew district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u168	This must be another decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u169	Aah! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u170	We'll get to her again. We're not there yet. Then we are. There are no other warnings to draft Decree 5134? I put to the vote, with the exception of the names Omelin Sergey Yegorovich and Goshovska Tetjana Volodymyrna, the adoption of the entire draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 5134. Please vote. [[12:50:24]] For 364 Decision taken. Omeilin Sergey Yegorovich, please come to the microphone. But we must all be appointed, and then we shall be greeted. Yeah, by the microphone, are you up there? Where's Omelin? Please, the Yavorov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u171	Dear Sergey Yegorovich, and I immediately address Tetjana Volodymyrovna, two search engines at the Court of Appeal of Kiev. I'm talking about voting for both of you, and I think you're going to be supported here. But I have this question for you: recently, Judge Naumchuk, Korotun and Šimanski made an unprecedented decision, which, I believe, in a legal way rejected Ukraine: the presence was forbidden. Take it on film, not listening to it completely. This is about the Writer's Association in the Court of Appeal. I have two questions to ask you, once again, I will vote for you because you have nothing to do with this, but aren't you ashamed to work in this court where there are such judges? Thank you. And I have the same question about Goshovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u172	Please, the position of the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u173	Thank you. I want to say that I am not ashamed to work in this group because I am doing everything in my power to ensure that the judiciary in Ukraine is on the right level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u174	Yes, the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u175	We have the nominations of Omielin and Goshovsky, they have a very good job, there's no complaint. A high level of handling, so the committee supports. I think that those claims that Vladimir Yavorowski has, the Supreme Court should consider the case and evaluate the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Vladimir Aleksandrovich, how are we going to put both Omelin and Goszowski together? Oh, no? Goszowski, please, your position, Auntie Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u177	I work in a criminal college, and I don't let that happen in my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u178	Vladimir Assadchev. Is there any objection to the two of us? I am voting for the election of judges on an untimely basis, Omelina Sergey Yegorovich and Goshovsky Tetjan Volodymyrnýn. This is the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Please vote. [[12:53:17]] For 355 Decision taken. Reported for review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Election of Judges, registration number 5134-1. This is page 24, I'm telling you, dear colleagues, to find yourself. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u179	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one, article 128, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Choose judges on an untimely basis: the local Jurijov Regional Court of Dnipropetrovsk Region of Kibalny Yuri Georgievovich; the local Torez Municipal Court of the Donetsk Region of Korit Viktor Borisovich; The local Melitopol City Court of Zaporozhye district of Maruszczenk Mikhail Vasilovich. Local.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u180	Yeah, one minute. A maruchet's last name, right? Let's put a mark on it. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u181	The local factory district court of Zaporozhye Sisujova Arkady Ivanovich. Here is a remark made by the People’s Deputy, the Dry One’s complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u182	People’s deputy Shufrich was there to be noted. Sucky, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u184	According to Sisyov, who are warned?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u185	A dry, people's deputy of Suhigo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u186	So let's take it away. That's a warning. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u187	According to Tamari's Prokopchuk, Stephen's warnings. Local Novoydar District Court of the Luhansk region of Loboduk Vasiliyovich the local Old Sambir District Court of the Bonetsky region of Ljubomir Josifovich; the local Turkish District Court of Lviv district of Spurz Maria Volodymyrna; the local Lichakow District Court of Lviv Lakomsk, Jana Ivanovna; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa, Gaius Ludmila Vadimovna; The local Slavus city court of the Hmelnick district of Tonchuk Raise Ivanovna; the local Visnicke District Court of the Krugluk Volodymyr Grigorovich District; the local Putil district court of the Czernovetsk district of Makovijchuk Ludmila Romanovna; the local Lower Town Court of Chernigiv County, Gordian Ludmila Vasilovna; the local court of the Feodosian garrison of Melikhov Volodymira Stepanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u188	So, Vasil Vasilovich, do you mean except for three last names?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u189	Yes, except for Maruszczenka, Sisovova and Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u190	Dear National Deputies! With the exception of Maruschenko, Sisov and Prokopchuk, I am voting on a draft Supreme Council ruling on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5134-1]] Please vote. [[12:56:17]] For 373 Decision taken. Maruštenka Mikhail Vasilovich, I ask you to come to the microphone. Yes, Ivancho, turn on the microphone. No, who? Catherinechuk, please. Mikola Catherinechuk. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u191	Dear National Deputies! In advance, the practice of the Committee on Legal Policy in informing members of the people and in preparing a reasoned decision on whether or not to vote is based on the fact that we receive certain documents and from the national deputies, and then we are already making an informed decision on whether or not to support a candidate for the permanent election of judges. Unfortunately, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Service Correspondence Department just now received a statement from a very well - known journalist. a statement concerning Maruszczenko Mikhail Vasilovich. I quote a few things, such as moments, and I would like to have an explanation. And after that, I'd like the position of the national deputies today not to be decisive, but we're still working on the committee and we're putting this question to the next vote. But still, about the meaning of this, let's say, a reference. In Russian, I'll read Russian. It is due to Morushchenko Mikhail Vasiljevic. They've been allowed to address me with such offensive, degrading words of honor and dignity as "goat, Jew" and so on. I find this behavior unacceptable. Nor can a person of that moral character be appointed to the post of judge. The main concern here is that, as concerns were related to the nationality of this, let's say, the complainant. I have a request now that Maruszczenko Mikhailo Vasilovich does not comment, and yet we have been dealt with with with the relevant statement on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u192	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u193	This complaint was already being considered by a commission in the Zaporez region, and it was proved that it was not, and I never insulted that person.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u194	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u195	The committee recommended support. This is for consideration by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u196	I put to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, the first proposal by the committee to elect judge Marouschenko Mikhail Vasilovich, who is the local Melitopol City Court of Zaporozhye. Please vote. [[12:59:12]] For-152. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u197	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, give the commission to the committee so that we can take a closer look.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u198	I ask the committee to take a closer look at its verdict and next time bring its verdict together with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Sucking up Arkady Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u199	After Sushi's Arkady Ivanovich in the last, literally, day came a serious complaint, and I said it was a national MP. Therefore, we ask that we postpone the consideration of his candidature; we simply will not be able to understand the objectivity of this complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, no objection to the committee's proposal? Let the committee learn more. This is a question related to Sisovo’s candidacy. Tamar Stepanovna's dig, please come to the microphone. Nestor Schuffritch, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u201	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Tamara Stepanovno, you have been given a decision regarding the Abroad Renata Leonidivna and the County Artem Viacheslavovich, this is a child that my fellow national deputies know about evicting them from their apartment, and they were not present at any meeting, they were not even able to know what was going on in the court about their eviction. They came to you later, tried to change the situation somehow, and you ignored them. Still, it is a child. You're a woman. How did you make that decision? And you know that right now, to the High Council of Justice and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a complaint has been filed about your actions and as judge and your conduct. Explain this to us, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u202	Please, Tamara Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u203	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u204	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u205	So this situation does not correspond to reality, because the decision has gained legal force, the appeal has passed, has gained legal power. These people were warned, there were documents in the case that they knew about the day of the court and deliberately did not come, they were filing a motion to postpone the case, it was postponed, there were documents. The decision has gained legal power, there have been no violations of the law on my part.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u206	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u207	That's where the MPs will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u208	Sulkowski, please. Sulkovski's microphone, faction of the Ukraine region. Well, please, Sulkowski. Well, you put the right card in or you sit in your right place and you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! If, in my opinion, if there is a question in such a difficult economic and economic day and a political time, if there is a decision of any court where children were put on the streets, I think today is a disgrace to such a judge. And there can be no vote. I think it will be a disgrace to the people's deputies who will continue to allow such judges. I urge you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u210	What are some other considerations? Please, Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u211	Is there anything else to add?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u212	I suggest that, given that there are such materials, that this judge be put off, that he not consider or vote. I propose this to support my proposal and our colleagues and to vote against it. Take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you do so. Just a minute. We can't say out loud right now it's a good idea to yell, "Damn!" and decide man's fate. This disgrace will be the people's deputies. So I suggest that the committee study the subject. It's the fate of the people. Perhaps the fate of the judge as a man and the fate of those who were evicted. And then more arguments to give to the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? Please, Vasil Vasilovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u214	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am grateful for this support. Dear colleagues, on each occasion one party is satisfied, the other is not. Keep in mind that we cannot criticize a court decision that has not been overturned at all. So let's study on the committee, sort it out, and maybe we can thank the judge again for the right decision. This is a matter of situation and specific circumstances. Please withdraw from the study, and then re-enter the candidature after the study.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, this goes into discussion. One, the other, there's no word. Please, let's keep going. Now, let's ask the second question, then the procedure. Well, please, Catherinechuk from the procedure. Then Assadchev. Very briefly, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u216	I'm very short. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that I insist on supporting the speaker's proposal that we cannot now decide from the voice the fate of this man, but we cannot and cannot ignore those signals that are coming from the national MPs. People's deputies have two functions: legislative and supervisory. And now these voters, as far as the people's deputies are concerned, they should, let's say, be able to influence that decision. And that's why I'm in favour of really taking this question off the table and getting the committee to sort it out, and so that the national MPs who have the claims, let's say, have argued all the positions, and then we'll make the decisions. Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u217	Assadchev, please. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! As I recall, we had already arranged once in this room not to embarrass the Supreme Council, not to embarrass the judicial corps, all the MPs ’ claims to submit to the committee. And as far as I know, the committee responds well. If the MP hasn't filed such a claim, then there's nothing here at the session to raise that question. And I'd like that to apply to everyone. If Shufrich has failed, why is it publicizing the judicial authority here? That's why, of course, I might agree with your offer. Let's go to the future: there are claims to judges -- let's go to the committee and let them deal professionally. We have not submitted to the committee, then we must vote and appoint judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to give up, the matter is closed. Calm down! Zaporozhye, please, Babourin. Once again, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I say that this is not a discussion of the question -- that's all. Please. That's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u220	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we wouldn't have this friction if, for the second time, I suggest that we make a public appointment for life. Because I suggested: "Come on in the local press." We'll find out at the last moment we're here. It's all a secret under family seals. That is, if we were public judges for life, if we knew the candidates in advance, then there would be no such differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u221	Perhaps this indicates that you do not want to be interested in these matters or that you are interested in them at the last minute. Announcements are being posted, messages are being sent through message fractions, documents to candidates whose nominations will be considered. Let the committee head tell you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, you ask the question is true. We're sending you information in advance, and we're working closely with the MPs. But what I want to say about publicity is, through the Supreme Council, we've just passed a law on the lifelong election of MPs, where we predict press publishing and so forth. Yesterday, we discussed the president's remarks on the committee, and again, we pass the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council. Soon it will work and many problems will be solved at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I beg you to give up your hands, this is not a discussion going on, and Yuri Carmazin, including in the first place. The draft Order on the election of Judge No. 5134-3 is announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u224	Excluding Sisoyev and Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u225	Yeah, and we haven't voted yet, have we? Oh, I'm sorry. We've already voted. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted. Excluding those who did not make the decision. Now, the new draft of Decree 5134-3. It's given to you separately by your esteemed colleagues, there's one last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u226	Project Regulation 5134-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u227	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm sorry, the secretariat just said that we didn't vote on Bill 5134-2, well, the secretariat passed on. I'm voting for an exception. So the bill of the Law, number 5134-2, we just missed it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u228	It is recommended to select Ukraine's Supreme Economic Court Kostenko Tetjana Fedorovna, Kriddo Dmitr Stepanovich, Florova Hanna Mikolayevna; to the Dnipropetrov Chamber of Commerce Court of Glaucoma Vladimir Grigorovich, Golyashkin Oleg Volodymirovich; to the Zitomir Farm Court of Appeal Pasicnik Svetlana Sergiyevna; The Kyiv Economic Court of Appeal, Nechatila Alexander Mikolaiovich; Kyiv's interdisciplinary appeals court, Yakovlev Mikhail Leonidovich; Luganic Court of Appeal Bannov Tamar Mihailovna, Ježov Svetlana Stepanovna, Zivovov Love Ivanovna, Zivović Azu Musa Kiza, Laznenko Ludmila Leonidivna, Medunica Olga Eugene, Paramonov Tetjana Fedorovna, Perlov David Yuhimovich, Semindeev Inessa Vjacheslavna; the local commercial court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Michael Ivanovich; the local commercial court of the Poltavian region of Georgieva Viacheslav Dmitrovic; The local court of the Ternopil district of Žuk Galin Andriyevna, Croat Ludmila Volodymyrovna; the local commercial court of the Hmelnick district of Radchen Dmitr Ivanovich; local court of the Cherka district of Šumk Volodymyr Vasilovich. There are no comments, suggestions, and complaints. High knowledge has been shown to be qualified, so we support them to be elected to these high positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee to elect judges on an untimely basis in accordance with the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision No. 5134-2. Please vote. [[13:11:14]] For 386 Decision taken. Now, please. Not all, my dear fellows. There's still a 5134-3 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u230	The committee supported the filing of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s election of the Song of Igor Mikolaiovich as Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district on an uninterrupted basis. There is no claim to Scripture. It goes separately because there was a separate application, and we haven't been able to draw up a single decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u231	Is there no objection? I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the selection of the Writer Igor Mikolaiovich, registration number 5134-3. Please vote. [[13:12:12]] For 388 Decision taken. Now we have all the legitimate reasons, honourable colleagues, to welcome to the election of judges an untimely group of judges and to wish them an honest and self - sacrificing service of the law, to ensure the rule of law. Yes. We're continuing our consideration of "Other Readings" section. The draft Law on Designation of Heads, Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on Cessation of Their Powers is under review. Mikola Tomenko, please. From the committee. Head of the committee. Committee proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u232	Dear colleagues. The committee considered after the first reading of 44 amendments to the Law on the Appointment of Heads, Presidents of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company, grateful to the Zaplatinski People's Deputies of SDPU(O), whose proposal we have practically fully considered, the National Deputy of Gorbal of the "Regions of Ukraine" -- a significant number of amendments that we have considered, and we bring this bill to your attention. The general situation today and the need for this bill has increased, in our view, after we have witnessed to a large extent the situation where the National Television Company ceases to be a national and ceases to be a national television company. I'll give you a few facts that have occurred over the last period, which we think is forcing the Supreme Council to take over the situation in the National Television Company. The first fact. You know, we voted a decree on the disclosure of the Supreme Council's activities. [[Cassianova project, 360 votes]] The head of the Supreme Council turned to the head of the National Television Company. Not only do we not have the conditions of our work, we don't have the answer, we just don't have the answer, we just don't have the answer, no one is going at the National Television Company to highlight the activities of the Supreme Council. For example, I'm going to say that the National Radio Company has already signed a contract with us and we've been working with the radio for a whole period of time without any problems. The next commission we created is now active. I'll bring you some facts about the situation. If we don't intervene in this situation, we won't be producing our own product anytime soon. Today, there are about 21 hours of speech on UT-1. A product of its own, or product, that National Television journalists produce for an average of 4-5 hours a day. Four or five years! Everything else is the company's sales structure or joint production with the National Television Company. The national television company is no longer able to produce the news itself. The news is made by another commercial structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u233	Let's go get it fixed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u234	Let me tell you about the financial situation. The financial situation is also very difficult today, with the National Television’s advertising market roughly as a place for the STB, the National Television Company officially declares that it has 0.5 percent of the money from advertising in the advertising market.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u235	Anatoly Volodymyrovich! I'm asking you, let's go to the repairs. It's not a report after. We're not discussing the situation in the National Television Company, we're discussing the law. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u236	I've given you these examples in order to tell you again, the Supreme Council has to pass this law, which allows us to listen to the reports every year and, together with the President, appoint and release the leadership of the National Television Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u237	Who among the national deputies of amendments insists on amendments that are not included? What amendments? Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone. What's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u238	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I couldn’t hear whether my corrections were taken into account or not. Since I got to know the table, I think they were counted. Now nothing has been said or taken into account in Karmazin’s proposals. If they've decided all of a sudden, and my suggestions are off-limits, then I'll insist on their acceptance. I want to hear the opinion of Mikola Tomenka, whether he responds to them or not, because I don't understand, you don't say. There's a table.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u239	Yuri Anatolyovich, this is the situation. You've made amendments, we've considered them. You know, the law had first and first rereading, we counted them between the first and the first rereading, now about the second reading. So we didn't put them in the table, because they're accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u240	Who else among the national deputies insists on their amendments? What warnings there are.? None. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, the second reading committee and, as a whole, the draft law on the appointment of heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the termination of their powers? [[Registration number 1159]] Please vote. [[13:17:48]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions, please. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood is being announced for consideration. [[on material security]] [[From the hall. Don't hear it.]] We've already directed it, how far can we direct it? Please, the position of the committee, what? One minute, turn on Tomenko, please. Excuse me, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u241	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I suggest, first of all, that our colleagues from the parliamentary majority respect our decision and, if there are warnings to the law, guide them. Once again, all proposals, the rulings of the majority deputies are taken into account. But, I think maybe someone didn't make it, let him send it to us, and I suggest we read it again again. I'm voting on a motion by the committee to re-read the bill, registration number 1159. Please vote. [[13:19:17]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please, on the factions. Yes, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood is being considered, registration number 3221. [[on material security]] Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u242	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Law that we passed in the past is working only 10 percent of what needs to be done to help children with disabilities from childhood, unfortunately. Because the basic basis is the minimum of living, and the State Budget Act sets the level of security. So the real law works by 10 percent, as I said. In order to strengthen the State support of children with disabilities, disabled persons from childhood are provided for in this bill: first, to determine the right to grant care for children with disabilities, based on the minimum of living, rather than the level of providing for them. The second is to give a single mother the right to receive an allowance for the care of a disabled child without taking into account her salary. It's a disaster when one mother and her child are disabled. You understand how difficult the situation is. Hence, it is suggested that we do not take into account her earnings. Thirdly, and ensure payment of state aid to children with disabilities for the current month, not last month, as the main source of income for the recipient. And the last. It is proposed to regulate the time frame for recalculation of state aid when the disability group changes or disability begins to take account of the interests of the disabled child itself or the disabled person from childhood, not in terms of the decline in this state aid. I mean, actively supported by the Professional Committee on Veterans, Pensioners, and Disabled Persons, all proposals are taken into account. And I'm asking you to support, Your Honor, the strengthening of state aid for children with disabilities and children with disabilities from childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, the repairs are all taken into account. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood, registration number 3221. [[on material security]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u244	Can I have your back, please? [[13:21:56]] For 380
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u245	For 380. The law is passed. Thank you. Let's move on to the section "Re-examination of laws with proposals by the President of Ukraine." It is submitted for consideration by the Ukrainian Law “On the Approval of the General Programme for the Development of Small Cities” with proposals by the President of Ukraine. From the Cabinet of Ministers, please, Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Please, very briefly, if you agree in the new edition, we will consider it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, on December 22, last year, the President of Ukraine addressed to the Supreme Council his proposals for law, and they are practically all taken into account. Hence, the proposal to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u247	Thank you. Please, is there a need for a report from the committee? Out of procedure, please, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u248	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we've talked about this before. I would ask that we stick to the arrangements. This is about the President's proposal in the veto order when he is to authorize his representative in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine’s national deputies do not have material in front of them, authorized by the President. So I'm asking you very much to give us the names of this person, whether the official in the session room is actually in charge of the President's application.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, your materials are given to you by a letter from the President of Ukraine, which contains a second paragraph of this content: he will present the proposals of the President of Ukraine during the consideration of the law at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deputy minister of the economy and the European integration of Romaniuk, who has just been on the stand. Dear colleagues, the President's proposals are taken into account, the committee proposes to enact legislation in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. No warning? That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Small City Development Program Act in a new edition with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 1044. Please vote. [[13:24:31]] For 367 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 10.12.2003, is being submitted for consideration. Registration number 3502. Presenting these proposals in accordance with the President's mandate will be the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Mikola Chechetov. Mikhail, I'm sorry, it worked. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u250	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine has proposed rejecting the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, particularly in a manner that is contrary to Ukrainian legislation and may lead to violations of the rights of privatization entities. An additional economic and legal analysis provided an opportunity to conclude on the imperfections of the proposed addition to article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Small Enterprises. In line with the change made, it is determined that the expert path is not applied to the assessment of the sale of buildings, buildings, and buildings in which the works are located. However, nothing is determined by the law as to how the property of the above - mentioned objects should be valued. This may result in a situation where the privatization of such objects will be blocked because of the absence of standards that determine the mechanism for their evaluation. In addition, it should be noted that creative workshops are often located in residential buildings that are suitable for these attics, in basements. Thus, from the amendment to article 12, it follows that privatizations can also be seen in housing. However, this statement is contrary to part two of the third article of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property, which establishes that the act of the Act does not extend, inter alia, to the privatization of the Housing Fund. It has to be added that Ukrainian legislation does not contain the definition of a "production workshop", so the long-term privatization of an object based on the criteria of its presence in a creative workshop can lead to undesirable and uncontrollable consequences, and under certain circumstances and abuses, when any object is privatized at the expense of the debt. This calls into question the economic relevance of such privatization, creating favourable conditions for hidden tax privatization. So, in summary, it must be acknowledged that the changes adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises are not perfect in terms of the absence of mechanisms for its implementation, the creation of a foundation for possible abuses and the violation of the principle of equal support for creative communities. After considering what has been said, it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the law as being contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The President's proposals are also supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Head of the Professional Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u251	Thank you, sit down, please. Dubitic Viacheslav Volodymyrovich of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u252	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On 20 November 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, registration number 3502, and decided to accept it as a whole as proposed by the government. On December 10, 2003, the president of Ukraine returned Ukraine’s prescribed law with his proposals and proposed that his position be annulled by articles 13, 24 and 36 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 4 February 2004, considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Small State Enterprises, and decided to propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide to adopt it. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, I will put the first to vote a proposal for both the President and a committee that coincides. If not, then we'll put the veto on. Right? I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, which is supported by the Committee on the Abolition of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Amendment to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Privatisation of Small State Enterprises Please vote. [[13:29:43]] For 325 The law has been revoked. Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians, with proposals by the President of Ukraine on 13.12.2003, is submitted for consideration. [[Registration number 1306]] In accordance with the mandate of the President of Ukraine, he will represent the President of Ukraine, Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u254	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This law was not signed by the President in view of the contradictions that were with the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm not going to talk about the meaningful part right now, because all the President's proposals are supported by the profile committee. So I ask you to support the President's proposal and the committee's decision to adopt this law, taking into account the comments made by the Head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u255	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! A committee of similar views is in place. Is there a need to speak? If you want to kill him, speak your own opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u256	Dear friends! Indeed, the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday considered this issue and generally supported the President’s proposals. There was a separate thought that involved removing from the text of the law the definition of a foreign Ukrainian as a person who identified himself as a Ukrainian. We, the law-makers, thought that the word "Ukrainen" was spoken of as a representative of the Ukrainian political nation. Yet it was unconvincing for the President, and he suggested that this be removed. I took a special opinion on the committee as the author of the law and Oleg Grachev and the Communists of the faction, members of the Communist faction. However, the committee supported the president’s proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the new Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians, with proposals from President of Ukraine, registration number - 1306. Please vote. [[13:32:03]] For 344 The law is passed. Let's move on to the section "Decision from the Issues under discussion." That's what we discussed yesterday. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act is being introduced. [[new editor]] The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. No warning? I'm voting for the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act -- a new edition, registration number 3757. Please vote. [[13:32:49]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Committee proposal, please. Well, we'll take the committee's offer now. Maybe the committee will give him up. We'll see. The committee's making decisions on the run, they're counting on all options. The committee provides for all options. We've been taking it. Dear colleagues, when we voted on the election of the presidents of the television company, you did not make such warnings. Don't be selective, you know, in your positions! Be Obedient! Please, Mikhailo Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u258	Dear Head, honourable deputies. Well, first of all, the procedure. Back there they were running, they just couldn't vote. I'd like to put it to a vote. I'm the principle. I know that today in "Our Ukraine" it was a question. I know Stretovic's position, and personal treatment of the Attorney General should not be passed on to the law that serves Ukraine. I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, this is how I can proceed. Put to the vote now: who's in favour of going back to the consideration of this bill. Dear colleagues, it's all in the law. Who is responsible for coming back to the consideration of this bill? That makes sense. Identify yourself. [[13:34:22]] For 230 The decision is the Supreme Council. I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption as the basis for the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, a new edition. Registration 3757. Please vote. [[13:34:51]] For 236 Decision taken. It's a draft of the Young People's First Jobs Act that is being announced for consideration. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Young People's First Job Security, registration number 2159. Please vote. [[13:35:28]] For 372 The draft law was adopted as a basis. The draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the conservation and purpose of the use of social objects during their privatization and post-privatization period is being announced. [[completed]] Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna is a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u260	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, a number of comments were received from Stoyan’s deputies, Harry, the committee. Accordingly, all the proposals were taken into account. Les Mikhailovich Tanjuk also made proposals, and almost all of us counted them. One of the technical corrections that the Science and Technology Department made a note of.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u261	Science-expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u262	It's an expert department. Please consider on page 2. The Cabinet of Ministers program. Openness, then effectiveness. We counted the rest. Please support the ruling as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt the whole draft Decision on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the conservation and purpose of using social objects in their privatisation and post-privatization period. The project has been completed. All offers are included. Registration number 4599. Please vote. [[13:37:02]] For 381 Decision taken. The National Council of Ukraine Report on Television and Radio Broadcasting for 2003 is under review. Mikola Tomenko, please. Turn on the microphone. You have a draft decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal, we discussed this issue, the document's test contains a series of serious warnings and recommendations on the shortcomings of the National Council's work on television and radio. At the same time, given that today's law does not allow the National Council and especially our parliamentary "four" to do what you require. Me. Therefore, there is a proposal to accept a report with these warnings and to speed up the consideration of the new edition of the National Council on Television and Broadcasting in order to address the problems of the more effective work of this body.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u265	Dear National Deputies! I mean, we're essentially in the business of giving a positive assessment, right? We're getting to know each other, aren't we? Yuri Carmazin. If you're familiar, then you don't have a negative?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u266	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the decree reads: The National Council has not yet properly carried out its duties. We're the legislature. And all we find is that it does not carry out legislation, not duties, that is, it violates the requirements of the Constitution and the law. I ask you to replace these words before you vote in general. So that's what I'm offering. And I'm going to ask you to replace it, because that's the main thing. Because we do, we take to heart, and we write that someone does not carry out his duties. And we are concerned about the implementation of the Constitution, the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council. What is necessary for the National Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u267	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on voting on the basis of the draft regulation, and then we'll take your proposals into account by voting on the adoption on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the National Council of Ukraine on the issues of television, the radio talk for 2003. Registration number 5114. Please vote. [[13:39:45]] For 326 Decision taken. I put to the vote the proposal just made by the Karmazin People's Deputy as a clarification to the final part of the decree. [[13:40:07]] For-143 The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on a motion for a committee to adopt a draft regulation as a whole as a decree. Registration number 5114 "On the report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting for 2003". Please vote. [[13:40:38]] For 303 Decision taken. The draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation “Strategy for the Development of the Radio Information Area of Ukraine” has been announced for consideration since December 10, 2003. Please note, the parliamentary hearings were December 10th, and we are only now approaching this decision for the second time. People's MP's microphone, committee heads, Mikli Tomenka, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, obviously, the first incident happened there, and not quite everyone was familiar with the document. This is a document that is prepared jointly with the structures of the Government of the National Council, and it is of extremely important importance, especially it determines as soon as possible the Cabinet of Ministers to complete the Program for the Modernization of the Networks of SD-1, SD-2, SD-3, which we are talking about, how to provide by September 1st a program for the implementation of digital technologies and the rest of the basic things that the government is already working on. There are no political moments, there are professional, technological things that are extremely important. There is a request from the Committee and the Supreme Council to support and enable the government and the Nacradi to work on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, what warnings do you have? Then let's take the basis and then we'll take the warning. Then Yuri Anatolyovich. I am voting on the basis of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations “Strategy for the Development of Ukrainian Broadcasting Space” from December 10, 2003. Registration number 5063. Please vote. [[13:42:34]] For 230 As a basis, it's been accepted. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u270	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I propose the first paragraph, where it is written "the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Liaison and Information Committee, the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting concerning the full development of Ukraine's television information space in the context of the introduction of new technologies, to write: "to see that it does not meet the requirements of current legislation and present." And now it's written "not effective enough." What is "sufficient enough," what is "inefficient," you know, is not about the Supreme Council. Where is the performance measure? Show me that indicator. He's gone. So let's write that "does not meet the requirements of legislation and today." This in one word shows that we have fallen behind, have fallen behind for a long time, and are doing everything wrong by law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u271	I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's proposal. We should accept it as a whole. [[13:44:00]] For-96 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of Parliamentary hearings, “Strategy for the development of Ukrainian television information space” from 10 December 2003. Registration number 5063. Please vote. [[13:44:31]] For 234 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, let's move on to rereading. A draft of the Arms Act is being announced for consideration. Reporters of Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich and Viennese Joseph Vikcentiovich We continue our work for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u272	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is preparing for re-reading the only harmonized draft of the Ukrainian Arms Act, which has been organically introduced by some legislators to introduce similar draft laws under registration numbers 1171, 1171,-2, 1171-2 and so on. As part of the preparation of the "On Arms" Act, the working group took the utmost account of the recommendations since 1984, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the harmonization of national legislation on arms, observations and proposals by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Labour Collectives and the Individual Citizens, which contributed to the improvement of its provisions. The bill presented in its essence and structure does not introduce a new principle into the legal field. It just systematizes and improves the standards that are now in place in dozens of legal acts, in which instruction is given, and so on. At the same time, the bill removes unnecessary bureaucratic barriers to arms circulation that do not meet modern requirements. The current adoption of such a law is also due to the need for Ukraine to fulfil its international obligations in the area of arms circulation and ammunition. The provisions of the Ukrainian Arms Act are primarily aimed at protecting the lives, health of citizens, their property, preventing illegal proliferation and arms circulation, and strengthening international cooperation in these matters. It is predicted that the arms law of Ukraine will regulate the rules of manufacture, acquisition, storage of weapons, ammunition, and possession, and use of weapons. The draft Arms Act has 47 articles, which are combined in 6 chapters, as well as the section "Final Positions". The main positions of the selected project are to define the concept of weapons that covers all available and possible perspectives and its types, types and patterns, classification criteria, etc. In the draft law, they found their reflection on the issue of ownership, ownership, use, and possession of weapons. Thus, taking into account the comments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies in previous discussions on similar projects, the working group believes that the provisions of the bill are consistent with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which are designed to be implemented in an inescapable manner. The adoption of the draft arms law does not require additional funds. The committee recommends that the Ukrainian National Deputies approve the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u273	Thank you, sit down, please. His bill is presented by the Ukrainian National MP, Winsky Joseph Vicentiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u274	Dear National Deputies! The bill that I'm presenting is a finalized version of a bill that we were looking at almost a year ago, which received more votes then other bills, but didn't get 226 votes, and that's why it was directed at re-reading. In the course of its work, we took into account most of the comments made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which, by the way, in the previous consideration, stated that this bill was most appropriate of all that was proposed. We took into account the proposals made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Customs Service. So we think that the bill that we've submitted today, which is a finalized version of that project that we've been looking at a year ago, allows us to hope that it takes into account all the positions of the IMF, which takes into account the positions of the Scientific and Expert Authority, which takes into account the proposals of the national MPs that were expressed in its deliberations. In principle, we removed a short - term weapon position from it. You know that this position has caused serious claims by national MPs. We think we should have voted today without this point. And that's why I'm offering to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u275	Thank you, Joseph Vicentiovich, sit down, please. Positions understood? Let's be clear. I can see the excitement and the desire. Then it's a reduced procedure. Please, Karmazin. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u276	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". As early as 1994, in the election to the Supreme Council, I wrote in my program that an arms law should be developed and adopted. Such a law was designed by me, passed by me. Today, without my consent, I was included in the author's team, including the vast majority of the rules that we have developed, the bill in Project 1171-d. Well, God be with him. It's not about ambition today. It's about the case. Do you need the Ukrainian Arms Act?".. He needs it, and not even today -- he needs it the other day. And that's clear: any civilized country needs an arms law, needs to set up, eventually, and fulfil its obligations, on the one hand, the state, on the other hand, the citizens. We need to take all the weapons that are today, these warehouses that are in the Ministry of Defense, we need to shoot down those weapons so that they can be identified, and even, I think, we need and we need to give rights to a certain group of people who are engaged in specific activities, and then, let's say, they retire: they're security personnel, whether they're militia personnel, or they're members of the court who have the right to defend themselves. Imagine that in civilized countries. It's only the second day that an operative retirees, they call him, "Gun Surrender." He gave up his weapon. A few days or months later, or years later, a bandit whom he brought to criminal liability and prison positions and who is unarmed. Today, it is possible to buy weapons for $300, $400, automatically starting with $500, using what we have near Russia, fighting, using what we have near Transnistria, using what is still in the army warehouses, not all of which are already fixed and too many flags. Therefore, dear friends, I have stood and stood on the question that this law should be passed, but we must foresee the right to protect these people, ourselves, if we cannot protect them by the state. Thank you for your attention. Please accept this law in the first reading. I'll put all my notes on second reading. Act 1171.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u277	Thank you. School. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u278	Thank you. Well first of all, you know, I want to start with a long-known quote that "good word with a revolver is better than a good word." So I'm going to tell you frankly that weapons are one of the elements of freedom, that's one of the elements of being able to protect our lives from criminals, because in this state, criminals are long armed, and they are armed with the official license to carry these weapons. And you all know what this license looks like. It's written that the criminal found this gun today, goes to the police. And it just changes the application and the date. Puts it in your pocket and. He was caught, he says, "Well, boys, just now to you, he found this gun, loaded it and carried it to you. And you caught me. You see, it happened more quickly." Hence, criminals have both weapons and permits. Of course, since he has many babysitters, this law is not perfect. In fact, he is imperfect. But the imperfect arms law is better than its absence, and so in the first reading, it is unrepentantly necessary to vote in favour of the bill. And I would like to stress that there is no danger. Talking about Grandma being armed with a gun is as funny as she's going to be walking with a hunting rifle right now. Because now it's free to buy a hunting rifle, and no one walks in the street with it. The level of availability of a short - handed pistol, or weapon, is the same as in a hunting rifle. Plus, now you're practically free to buy a rubber bullet with a gun. In addition, this bill only distributes permits for the production of short - term weapons. So once again, I say that it is worth supporting here without any doubt or conscience problems, as they say. Because here, in this law, virtually everything is prescribed as it was even agreed with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because the main prosecutors, the main opponents of the arms market or the free market, are the militia, because they have a standard phrase for armed criminals, because they know first and foremost the same gun configuration. And a statement about his surrender, which every criminal has now. How can you protect yourself and your home? You say you can have a hunting rifle. Let's not tease ourselves. First of all, there's housing security, and there's street safety. And in general, this is one of the fundamental rights -- the right to self-defence, the right to self-defence. And the Ukrainian people have the right to self-defense and self-defence. And I am convinced that as legislators we will uphold this right and allow it to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u279	Please, Baranowski. Prepare Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u280	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues! Is there a need for the Arms Act? Of course, I am convinced that it is necessary. But at the same time, I'd like this law to be one that would still benefit society, not give birth to something else. First. These laws that are before us today are banning, even if you still have a different weapon, and today so many weapons, such weapons are virtually prohibited before use. It's not meant to be here, and what about all the different hunting weapons that our industry is releasing, and among you, national MPs, and even among hunters, there's a lot of them. The law prohibits gas weapons three years after the adoption of the law, bans shorthand weapons a year later, prohibits appropriate night vision targets or targets that technically give more, let's say, the same game is properly shot so that there are fewer suitable mornings. And I'd like to ask you a question today. Let's just say, in the militia, Sergeant, a military officer today is entitled to the seed of a weapon. And we're not afraid of how he uses it. We're not afraid of how he's using a soldier's weapon that came into the army, never holding it in his hands without training, and then the army is actually degraded today, because there's more people who don't even have secondary education. And we give them everything, we trust them with different weapons. At the same time, when we speak, people have the proper training, so let's, let's say, the leaders of different people who risk their lives by making certain decisions. And do you, honourable national MPs, know how to possess weapons better than the categories they own today, and by professional signs they are prescribed to own them? So I think the law should write down who could own this weapon, not limit everything. And, dear fellows, I am deeply convinced of what the predecessors rightly said: the criminals have weapons, and you will not stop them. Militia can't protect everyone right now. And some say that this weapon won't protect you. After all, if the criminal is not convinced whether there is a weapon or not, he's acting in a completely different way and he's also more cautious. So I would like the arms law to go for the benefit of society, not just to limit it. And that's why I'm against adopting such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u281	Please, Lukyanenko, and let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u282	Leukko Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I want to start with what my predecessor finished. Psychologically, it's a very different picture when a criminal goes after a person and knows that he's unarmed and that a criminal knows that there might be a weapon. And this is about a huge number of apartment thefts, this is about a huge number of robberies, this is about the mass of other crimes. These criminals are brave because they know that they are going to an unarmed house, to an unarmed man. When they assume there's a weapon, a completely different psychological atmosphere, and they'll hold back, I'm sure that crime will decrease. And now basically what is being prepared and what we want to do. You know, the Supreme Council has allowed weapons to be acquired around 1992, and in our society it's already been distributed, there are about 100,000 different rifles on our hands, and so on, our conventional infantry weapons. So of these 100,000 MTS, MTS, and so on, there was only one case where, indeed, weapons were used for a criminal purpose. And that's the case where the wrong guy used the wrong target, who had her registered car. And he just stole it and the man used it for a criminal purpose. That's 100,000 carbines that people already have. Next. The adoption of the law, let's say, generalizes those normative acts that are now, there are many, and they regulate them differently, they just regulate it differently, because there are decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, there is a President's Order, all of which are regulated differently and different people can now acquire these weapons. The adoption of the law systemizes these norms, standardizes them, and thus regulates the whole system by one law. It's a cadastral program that will systematize the weapons we have. Before, in Ukraine, weapons with rubber bullets were not produced, so now these weapons are produced, well, in Winnica, there in Poltava, under Kiev, so there can be security. Next. This law provides that weapons will be sold only in Ukraine. Of course, it's small mass production, but it's going to take up a certain number of Ukrainian citizens that are going to produce. Foreign weapons are prohibited. Now I would like to draw your attention to the fact that weapons will not only be given to everyone, and not everyone will be able to buy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u283	Question completed. Let's be clear. Once again, dear colleagues, that you and I should vote in favour of two, determine more faithfully the fate of the two bills. I'm betting on a draft Arms Act, registration number 1171D. [[14:03:19]] For 302 Decision taken. Then there is no need to vote on the second bill. For reasons of what? Let's see the factions. Please. "Our Ukraine" is 67, "Regions of Ukraine" is 57, communists is 2, "Trudova Ukraine" is 38, "Social Democrats" is 31, "The People's Government". - 16, socialists - 16, Tymoshenko - 12, Deminicatives - 17, Agrarian - 15, People's Choice - 13, NDP - 10, non-fractional - 8. I don't see the need After the bill has been voted, speak with motive. So we finished adopting the law as a basis. Please continue. We announced until 14.15. A draft Order on Restoration of Individual Populations in Ternopil region of the former appointments is under consideration (a draft submitted to the Committee was handed over on February 17th). Head of the Committee Ivan Vasilovich Ivancho. Registration number of Bill 5117. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u284	Ivancho, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The Ternopil District Council violated the concern before the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the restoration of the village "Gnilovod" and the village "Kamijanka" to a new name, the village "Slobydska Strusovka". The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government agreed with these proposals, all available documents and relevant decisions and a referendum is held, and requests support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u285	Thank you. Please, Simonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u286	Simonov, the Communist Party faction. Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, we are probably already doing something like this by renaming the renamed, and everywhere it is headed by the Ternopil region. Look, there was a nice village, it had a nice name called "The Guards," well, whatever the hell the hell the hell the hell there is a guard in, and they call it "The Roast." We just renamed the village "Yellow" as Cobilowole. Well, that's quite humorous. I think we need to keep this from happening. And here's the other one. Nobody counts money -- it's a name change, a name card, a name stamp, everything has to be changed, made up and changed as they want. I think we need to stay out of this for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u287	Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u288	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine." As a member of the committee, I took part in the consideration of this issue, and I can inform you that there were representatives of the local authorities, from that village people, they want to return that historical name. And as for the guards, well, the guards are different: there's Napoleonic, there's the royal guard, and so on. And people want to get that historical name back. So let's support people, and we're not ideologicalizing these processes here. Let it be a good village with an old name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u289	Yes, shall we vote? Then let's define. I am voting on a draft decree to restore to the individual population areas of the Ternopil region of former appointments the registration number of draft regulation 5117.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u290	The committee's asking for support. Yes, the Guards, there was a royal army. [[14:07:38]] For 206
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u291	206, Decision not taken, decision rejected. There is a draft decree to place a town-type settlement in the Precinct district of Zakartat district in the category of cities of district importance, registration number 5169. As reported by Ivan Vasilovich Ivancho. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u292	Dear National Deputies! The Zacarpathian district council, the village council, the district council, violated the concern before the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the urban settlement of the Percinian district to be placed in the district city category. The committee considered the relevant documents, and asked to support the renaming of a town-type village to the city's district value of the Zakarpat district. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, I think the right decision, there is no objection, let's vote. I'm voting on a draft decree to assign a town-type village to the district of Zacarpathia to the category of cities of district importance, registration number 5169. Let's raise the status. Vote. [[14:09:00]] For the 320. Decision taken. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the 2004 State Budget on VAT rates for economic operators in the agricultural and industrial complex is under consideration. Registration number 4467. Poshenko, head of the Committee, Peter Alexiyovich, reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u294	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this question is a powerful testimony to the adoption of the budget that we had in November 2003. The point is that the government's proposal contained a standard that did not allow the producers to return the value added tax on the export of the agricultural product. Thus, our producers have proved less competitive in terms of imports and have lost their traditional markets. In fact, today, if the rule of law contained in the Law on State Budget is in force, the State is trying to fill the state’s treasury at the expense of the most disadvantaged people — farmers. Moreover, some have been added to the agricultural industry, motivated by the claim that farmers do not pay taxes for the added cost. In the structure of the cost of processing, sometimes the raw material is 10 percent. And manufacturers with millions of people who pay living money in the State Budget do not have the right to compensate for the value added tax on exports. We created an unprofessional government situation where we violated the principles of justice and equality, the basic principles on which the tax system is to be built. That's why I call you. This rule was contained in Bill 4001 of the Supreme Council. You know, he was committed to the president, and he was dedicated to the State Tax Administration, and he said the state would lose it. I think this is a vivid example of the non-professionality of the State Tax Administration, because by losing markets by destroying agricultural producers, we are, on the contrary, causing considerable damage to the State budget of Ukraine. That's why I urge you, your honors, to vote on this law. And for the transcript, I'm saying that in this law, the rules of this law, when it's released, it will, despite what's being voted on right now, be distributed to the operations of the producers and processing companies that have been operating since January 1, 2004. This is contained. included by the author of the bill and was unanimously supported by the Committee on Budgets. Unfortunately, you and I are now forced to correct the inadequacy, negligence and professionalism of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's share the same friendly support for the proposal that just came out of your mouth. Committee. I am voting on the draft law on the basis of amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004. [[on VAT payments for APC business entities]] Registration number 4467. Based on the base. [[14:12:55]] For 337 I'll take that as a base. The committee's proposal is to accept it as a law as a whole. Please vote for the law as a whole. [[14:13:21]] For 340. The law was passed in general. Thank you, dear colleagues. There's a break until 4:00. At 2:15 p.m., the leaders of factions and groups. I stress once again, faction leaders and groups -- the Conciliation Council in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. [[I'd like only the faction leaders and groups!]]
