ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:02]] A total of 440 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, the Conciliation Council of the Deputies and the Groups were set to schedule meetings for November 2 - 5. The list of issues we need to discuss and make appropriate decisions is given to you. Dear colleagues, we agreed yesterday on the Conciliation Council that today we will invite a representative from the Central Electoral Commission to listen to previous information about the organisation and the vote held on October 31st and the steps already being taken by the Central Election Commission to improve the organisation of the second round of voting on November 21st. Do you have any objection to that? Now here's another one. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that, given the tension of political, political emotions after the first round of presidential elections, we would move the speeches from the parliamentary groups to the factions on Wednesday and start working on the drafts on Wednesday. [[We've got 45 minutes.]] Is there no objection to that? We don't have to vote, we just make a decision by the Supreme Council that we're doing ad-hoc, a derogation from the Rules. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Lysin Mikoli Pavlovich, who was 40 years old. Let us greet him, wish him fruitful success in his work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, for information from the Central Electoral Commission, Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich is invited. He's asking for information in 10 minutes. And make a statement. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Either we listen to each other or we don't. Just a minute. In accordance with the Central Electoral Commission Act, article 26th, the head of the Commission shall inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of the elections on behalf of the Commission. There are no official results. If you don't want to listen to the previous information right now, we'll be waiting for the official results. Please, Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Recently, from this high rostrum, the Central Electoral Commission informed the Parliament of Ukraine of the state of preparations for the election of the President of Ukraine. Reporting on the preparations for the electoral process, I and my colleagues have no doubt, honourable national deputies, that this is not done for the sake of the report, but will have practical interest both in the commission and in the organization of elections in general. That is exactly what happened. The issue initiated by the Supreme Council on increasing the funding of the electoral campaign was immediately resolved by the government, and the appeal to the authorities and local self-government regarding the urgent resolution of the material and technical provision of electoral boards, such as computer technology, communications, transport, the introduction into the proper state of voting facilities, helped to ensure the proper organization of the vote on October 31st. How grateful we are to you, distinguished national deputies! And there is no doubt that your desire to learn so quickly from the first lips about all the important perceptions that we had to face in the organization of voting last Sunday is subordinated to one single goal: to successfully complete this important stage in the history of our nation. There is no doubt that the electoral campaign will end with a re-voting process for which so little time is spent. And the members of the commission would like to see that with the problems that need to be solved every day, we are not alone, because in these days it is necessary to take a whole set of measures to solve the electoral campaign for several months. Today, when the results of the election of the President of Ukraine have not yet been established, when I and my colleagues are operating only on operational information and there is no way to do a thorough analysis of this far-reaching electoral campaign, conclusions, assessments yet ahead. However, allow the distinguished national MPs to address issues that may recur tomorrow and have a negative impact on the organization of the electoral process. First of all, it's the organization of election committees of all levels. Regardless of the complexity, the political pressure, the lack of experience, the legal training, we can say today that the commissions have provided the electoral process. In fact, all the problems have been solved at the proper time, and it is now important to analyse at the level of each territorial constituency the problems that have arisen, the staff composition of these committees, to preserve this potential and to ensure their work in re-voting, to re-use these people in the work of the commissions, and to use this at least basic experience. The second is the voter lists. There is a problem in the state. She was, she will be, and she'll be staying for now. By this time, until everyone has returned to the legislative base, the elimination of the law enforcement institution, which has extended for many years, must be replaced by an updated legislative base. An institution for the registration of natural persons should be organically linked to an institution for the registration of voters. It was just before the committees of all levels, the day of the vote, the committees of all levels that did considerable work to clarify the voter lists. At 20 hours on October 31, an estimated 37 million 297 thousand 325 people were included in the lists. By establishing the results of the elections, the Central Election Commission will give a proper analysis of the issue and will draw the right conclusions. Let me just say that the local courts on the day of the vote have considered over 42,000 complaints and decided essentially on the issue of those voters who had the opportunity to take part in the vote. As far as material and technical security matters are concerned. It was largely satisfactory to address the issue of the provision of premises, all the equipment needed, especially the telephone connection. I would be insincere today if I didn't say that everyone, without exception, was telephoned by the election boards of the constituencies, despite the complexity of the state. And according to the electoral boards, the intelligence came in at the right time. At present, however, the issue of financing the electoral boards remains relevant, since re-voting provides for a virtually full set of measures that require financial support. According to previous estimates, this goal alone will require an additional funding of at least 47 million dollars. The fourth problem, and extremely serious, is information security. Dear National MPs, you are informed that the day before the vote in many areas, such as Volinski, Dnipropetrovski, Donetsk, Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, Kyivsky, Lvivski, Odessa, Poltavski, Ternopilski, Hmelnicki and Sevastopoli, were mass-posted in separate polling stations, and displayed the stamp "exploded" across from the names of individual candidates for the post of President of Ukraine, such as Brodsky, Rogozinski, Rjawski. And this is after the warnings made by the Central Electoral Commission. After that, two telegrams were sent to all the territorial election boards prohibiting such things, since the first facts of the extermination and stamping of the Extermination had appeared in the Odessa region just before the day before. However, the commission was able to correct the situation. At night, literally before the vote, 38 polling stations, more than 60, were printed and sent to the district and then to the district election boards. More loyal to 6,104 ballots, and virtually voters of these polling stations were able to vote, because otherwise it could have been that it was in these 60,000 polling stations -- entire villages -- and other inhabited areas that could not vote. It would be a difficult situation, since there are elections in the country and there is no voting. However, the Central Electoral Commission appealed to the Attorney General’s Office, issued an appropriate decision requiring appropriate investigations, to clarify the reason. To this day, however, we do not know in the Central Electoral Commission that the voters of Ukraine are unknown to anyone who is responsible for such an irresponsible attitude toward extremely serious work as working on the electoral boards, and I feel that no one has anything to do with it today, and before the re-voting, honourable colleagues. I believe that this issue should deserve the most serious consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the law enforcement agencies and it should be properly evaluated. As far as information and analysis are concerned, it's an electoral campaign. The Central Electoral Commission has managed to organize a far less simple work on the system of information-analytical information collection from the territorial constituencies and the situation has been able to gather information from 94 in the first night, and in fact it has already been introduced to date and the next hour will already be informed by 96 percent of the polling stations, i.e. 32 thousand 820 polling stations are already in the database of the information and analysis system of elections, and the results will continue to progress and will be published accordingly as they are being processed. Today, the Central Election Commission is engaged in an extremely important phase in its work, preparing for the election results of the President of Ukraine. The protocols and other necessary electoral documentation, which will be worked in detail in the coming days, and the Central Electoral Commission will establish the results of the election of the President of Ukraine and will respond accordingly to what decisions to take, as I reiterate today it is already known that a re-election will take place in Ukraine, in accordance with the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u3	Let me finish. Are you all right? Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? As long as Jaroslav Vasilovich answers your questions, I ask you to submit applications for statements from factions with statements, information, messages. That's the first one. The other one. Please sign up for a question to the deputy head of the Central Electoral Commission. Ten minutes as agreed. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Ostrash, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Avramenko of the Regions will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u4	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u5	Yuri Klukkowski, please, "Our Ukraine," your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u6	Yuri Klukkowski, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich! You said there's already 96 percent of the plots. According to our data, there's 98.9 percent of the area in the Central Electoral Commission, where Victor Yushchenko received 11 million 387 thousand votes and Viktor Yanukovic received 11 million 350,000 votes. But I want to ask you a question. Why is the Central Electoral Commission not working, and why is this information not published? And the next question, Jaroslav Vasilovich. We demand that the Central Electoral Commission stop the flow of the amended protocols that today come from certain constituencies in contravention of the law and in which the voter's will is falsified?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u7	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! The Central Electoral Commission has entered and published 94.2 percent of the polling stations in the database. Today, indeed, there has been some decline in the yield of information to the Central Election Commission. This is the information that came in on the first night. In fact, materials are now being made available to the Central Electoral Commission and are being properly processed on the computer network, and I think they will be made public by the break of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for 98 percent, Yuri Bogdanovich, we don't have the information you have yet. Maybe you can share it with us. We have, let me emphasize again, 98 percent is not in the database. With regard to the detailed protocols, Your Honor Yuri Bogdanovich, you know that the amended protocols are the protocols of the district election committees. But the Central Election Commission has now received 129 protocols from the territorial, I emphasize, territorial election commissions and today will begin their analysis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u8	Yes, Avramenko, please, the faction of Ukraine. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u10	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u11	Thank you, Your Honor Jaroslav Vasilovich, we are very grateful that despite the pressure, you are really professional, as are the other members of the CLTC doing your duty. Please answer these questions: You feel from a single candidate to presidents and national deputies the pressure on the Central Electoral Commission and those events that took place on October 23th, as you're assessing from a legal point of view, that's the first. The whole world has seen that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens, have been unable to vote in the Russian Federation because the decision to form additional polling stations has been lifted. We feel that the political forces are set up to ensure the rights of our citizens. And please do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u12	Sergey Drogunzov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u13	I'll tell you what, Mr. People's Deputies. The Central Electoral Commission will be seven years from now, as I perform my duties as a member of the commission, and the secretariat of the commission will be acting as the deputy head of the commission. And every election campaign is a bitter political struggle. And I'm going to say, yes, indeed, the Central Electoral Commission has been hard to work before, and now it's hard to work. But this, I think, is normal. What is a society, and how it is also an approach to the Central Election Commission, unfortunately. It's Moscow. The Central Election Commission decided to form 41 constituencies. But the Supreme Court has made a decision, unfortunately, and I have no right to comment on his ruling by the Supreme Court. And it's a shame, of course, that citizens, and not only in the Russian Federation, but also in other countries, were denied voting. All I can do is feel sorry for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u14	Dear reporter. Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I want to say that this time it has not been without certain forms of falsification of election summaries and not only in the East, but also in the West. This is especially, yes, I would like to emphasize for those who are most protesting here. Unlike them, we do not have our own internal security service. But I saw Kiwalov's live conversation with a woman who runs one of the territorial election committees in Zitomirsk. And you know, she was kind of very calm when she got the suspicion that she still hadn't filed the documents that fit with the Central Electoral Commission. How can this be explained by such tranquillity, such confidence?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u15	The fact that she was calm, Sergey Ivanovich honorable, can be explained that her character is so, you see, good that she was calm. And what you call facts that might be relevant is that the Central Election Commission has no right without analyzing the materials without studying the protocols of the territorial election committees. By the way, the Central Electoral Commission will transfer all 33,000 to the commission. 200 minutes of the electoral commission, and the national deputies of Ukraine, and the public, i.e. representatives of the media, will all be familiarized with the study of these protocols and the results of the vote and will be summed up. Well, who's doubtful? We have a court of law, we can file complaints and accordingly he will make final decisions and risk no one having doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u16	Viacheslav Dubicki, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u18	Nestor Schufric, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u19	Good afternoon. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich! I can't help but resent the events that took place on the night of the 23rd to 24th numbers on the CBC, tell me, please, do you think there was pressure on the decision of the Central Electoral Commission this night, we already have consequences. Several hundred thousand of our citizens are denied the right to vote in the Russian Federation and in other foreign areas. In addition, how do you qualify for the fact that there are already hundreds and thousands of people in Western Ukraine who have received electoral ballots and at this time have not been in their place of residence or even been abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u20	Dear Nestor Ivanovich, on the first part of the question I have already answered the National Deputy of Konovaluk, on the second part of the question I will answer as follows: The Central Election Commission will carefully examine and study all complaints, appeals, statements that will be submitted to the Central Electoral Commission and, when the results of the elections are established, will take appropriate decisions throughout the country, which will be made publicly to all citizens of Ukraine and. The information will be sounded accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u21	Jaroslav Suhi, "Trudova Ukraine" faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Trudova Ukraine. Please give the floor to the honorary colleague Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u23	Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u24	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich! Well, election is a complicated continuous process, and election day is the final. I'm asking you this question: on October 23, we witnessed the unprecedented pressure of the headquarters of "Our Ukraine" on the Central Electoral Commission in the decision-making part of the commission's jurisdiction: broken windows, physical and moral damage to law enforcement personnel, in fact, our children on the asphalt for their duties. How many acts have been filed, and I have a question to you, to whom are the charges brought, which administrative conclusions have been drawn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u25	Dear Mikolo Petrovich, this question is more likely to be studied by law enforcement officials who have studied these matters in detail. Believe me, this past week, the Central Election Commission has been working around the clock on the organization of the electoral process, on the provision of ballot papers, on the provision of premises, on the provision of ballot papers, on the provision of premises, on the resolution of all organizational matters, and the law enforcement authorities have been handling these issues. I think that information should be provided by the heads of those organs to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u26	Sergey Cassianov, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u27	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, after this. about the information we received from the observers, the problems that in the election, according to falsification, were with the resilient coupons. We discussed these issues, there was a proposal to vote against Ukrainian passports with resilient coupons, and these passports were marked so as not to allow multiple ballots in several locations. How, how do you react, will your eye be supported, or any other suggestions on the matter? And the second question is the voters' lists. How and how will the work be done so that these lists of voters are corrected? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u28	Thank you, the questions are very interesting and, indeed, they are relevant. As for the first question, it is the will of Parliament and the President's decision. As will be accepted, the Central Election Commission will do so. As for the second question, indeed, the work of clarifying the voter lists was carried out by Ukraine’s extremely large, distinguished national deputies. I called the figure: Only the local courts considered 42 and a half thousand complaints and made positive decisions. Other commissions made decisions. The lists have been clarified, and now this needs to be fixed by re-voting, as the lists will be drawn up immediately when it is just scheduled for re-voting. And that's a good basis for making a voter register. And we need to solve these questions without delay. And believe me, this problem will be removed completely in 2006. Only gradually, will it be resolved in three stages: re-voting on the specified lists, legislative basis on the voter register, and a specific voter register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u29	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Time's up. Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, we've agreed that we're going to make speeches today from MP groups and factions. Is there no objection? Well, if there are no other suggestions, let's move on to the speeches. Valerij Pavlovich from the deputy faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Prepare Alexander the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u30	Dear friends, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I, in addition to being the national deputy, am still leading a political party and public organization block to support Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. I want to say that the political council, which has been a great honor to me, and this is an honor, both to me personally and to the People's Democratic Party, where I am the leader of this party, has carried out a constructive work for the consolidation of our society in our country. And I want to say right now, no matter how the election ends, I said who I'm supporting right now, we still have to live in our state together. Working as head of the Paradise city of Dnipropetrovska, I remembered that the main appeals of our citizens at the time to the Mesquikonkam or to the authorities were how to divide the road between the two gardens between the two neighbors. And they could never share it until someone died, either one neighbor or another. It's a very big problem. And when it comes to these or statements today that we want to divide Ukraine, I would like to refer to the presidential candidates who came on the second round in order to take a constructive position on the electoral campaign to unite our citizens. So that we don't count how many regions we voted for one candidate, but how many for another, so that we can clearly remember that all of our citizens living today in the territory of our country, all of our people, all of our children, and we must work together to ensure that our electorate can make a free choice. I also took part, I had the right to participate in the elections, my relatives, my friends, the members of the People's Democratic Party, who are my friends, I think the election campaign went on a fairly high, constructive level, it went smoothly, it was a merit both of the Central Election Commission and of all the political parties that live in our state. The only thing I want to do is ask all of us and the guards and the Electorate to create the right conditions for the second round of voting. It must be a more constructive work. I too had to stand in line for 30 minutes. At the same time, there were completely free people on the same electoral board sitting next to tables who were not involved in the process. So I urge everyone to work constructively to improve and be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u31	Alexander Alexanderus Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Get ready for Cyril.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! The figures published by the Central Election Commission say a lot of things. At the same time, they are only casually involved in the election campaign, since long before the day of the vote they were known, they were popularized through the media. People have been trained to view them as a calculated sum. In fact, this calculation wasn't based on the actual mood of the electorate; it was actually a mathematical basis for the planned jump in the second round of voting. And today, when the CEC has announced its numbers, and the headquarters of Yushchenka, we can testify that, not the fact that Yanukovic won, is not the fact that Yushchenko lost. The fact is, Ukrainian society has lost so far. Although most voters have endured oppression and blackmail from the authorities, we are grateful to our citizens. In this loss, it is difficult to compare the effects of individual factors at present. Many weigh electoral bribes due to temporary pensions and repayments, and they are not in the 2005 budget. Utopia’s expectations of a part of the population for dual citizenship, the overthrow of ballot papers at the expense of citizens who did not appear at polling stations. Equally important is the use of criminal technology, direct bribery by members of electoral commissions, heads of villages and villages, manipulation of electoral lists, blackmailing of citizens directly at polling stations. Anyway, we know that the sum totals only mean one thing is the remainder of what power has given itself. At least 10 percent of our supporters have been taken away by what no political scientist or foreign observer can do, because criminal democratic approaches are not comparable. Given even the arguments, we don't recognize the determined results of the October 31st vote. In addition, the regime considered that the need to fight self - survival caused by it could not stand firm in a political position. These moods have created an appropriate circle, it needs to be severed, otherwise there is no prospect for citizens or for the state. A tool for the political reform that must end dictatorship, usurpation of power, oppression of human rights, including the right to choose. The compromise field, at such an extremely responsible time, should include several strategic things, one of which is undoubtedly political, its contents, order and timing, the next reform of the system of power and the land issue. There are other important topics: the withdrawal of military personnel from Iraq, the creation of conditions for the judicial completion of resonant criminal cases, and the preservation. Ukrainian status, housing policy, privatization. Socialists are not motivated by ambition, a desire for jobs, or income. We need a truly free Ukraine, where every decent citizen will feel at home. We are ready to negotiate in order to reach and achieve such a goal. Perhaps knowing the meaning of today’s choice will force the rest to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u33	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. From the deputy group Soyuz to the speech, the national deputy of Kirillov is invited. Prepare Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues. Union MP, electoral district number 107, Lugansk district. First of all, I want to thank my voters for having been organized on election day, for having come to the field without disturbance, and for giving perhaps the best result in Ukraine -- 134 thousand 940 votes for President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic's presidential candidate. Today, much dirt will be poured out on power. Today they're going to tell all the truth and all the lies, but I want my colleagues here representing the main competitor of our candidate to ask you to pay attention to one simple thing. As you have your supporters, we have our own supporters. And you don't have to tell some stories about a very large administrative resource, because the result in the district says for itself. This result was achieved through 2.5 years of work, the cooperation of the MP Corps with the Cabinet of Ministers. Deputy Corps of Mayors with the Cabinet of Ministers. These are new schools built, these are new pipelines, these are villages that have finally seen gas that hasn't been there for 40 years under Soviet rule. And when we see that result in second place -- a candidate from the communists, third place -- a candidate from our Ukraine. This is our country with you. And we need to take this result quietly, get ready for the second round. And I believe that our victory, the victory of our candidate Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, will be sure, a demonstration and absolutely legitimate. And no fairy tales, no rumors have a chance to pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u35	Julia Timoshenko is invited from Julia Timoshenko’s block. Prepare Gabrieluk, Centre.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u36	Julia Timoshenko. Dear friends, right now, I would like to address the people of Ukraine first of all, who do not know the real information as a result of the blockade on television channels. And so what I want to say is that after the October 31st election, rather, the first November of the 30th night, there were completely formed figures based on a parallel count of votes, where Victor Yushchenko won the first round with 50 percent of 34 hundred. [[B in m in s a l in]] Janukovic took only 27 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u37	May I have your attention, please? Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u38	27 percent 86 percent. And I want to welcome the people of Ukraine right now with the fact that counterfeiting in Ukraine has not actually failed, that we today have a people of Ukraine who are much smarter than the criminal in Ukraine. And now the people of Ukraine don't see the faction of Ukraine sitting in these white-and-blue scarves. And what I'm saying is that they came with the squirrels on their neck to hang themselves after Yushchenko was declared a winner at least in the second round.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u39	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u40	Dear friends! I also want to tell you that the results were falsified precisely because and so, as we have warned you, the lists of people who had to vote have not been made by 10 to 12 people from 40 years of age or younger in Ukraine who, according to sociological surveys, Janukovic's headquarters were considered to be supporters of Yushchenka. And that is why these young people, from their 40 ’ s and younger years, were expelled from the lists and did not vote. The second forgery was that there was a group of bandits from every area -- more than 20 people -- who had 30 hard-core coupons on their hands, drove around the country, and with these hard-core coupons, each person voted 30 times. But all of this will not go away in Ukraine! And Janukovic will never be president of Ukraine, because on the first tour Victor Yushchenko became president. And I want you to know that women know that rapists can never be a lawful man: it is impossible to marry him. Similarly, the people of Ukraine will never choose the rapist of the popular elections in Ukraine as their president. And that's why -- I know that I have a few seconds left, and I want to say that we're starting a nationwide civil mobilization against the gang, against the criminal, on a peaceful, voluntary fight against Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u41	Please calm down! Dear colleagues. I'll give it to Well, let's finish the speech, I'll give you a line. What are you doing? Dear colleagues, I'd like to. May I have your attention, please? We'll continue the performances, and then I'll give you a line. Calm down, dear fellows! Let us, in the heat of the discussion, respect one another. All of it. Please, Gavriluk, Center. Get ready for Grimri. [[Well, we made a deal after we're done! Well, we made a deal. Well, come on.]] Please don't disturb, dear fellows! Well, don't ruin it!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! You know, before the recent events in the hall, there was silence and quiet work. Let us try and work without emotion after the election of the President. And I would like to say from the Centre of Deputies that our group appreciates the preparations, the organization of the first round of presidential elections, as unsatisfactory. As far as the constitutional rights of citizens are concerned today, when a person has the right to vote. [[Article 70-71]] We all know how many lists violations there have been, with misunderstandings on those lists. Who can say today, the Central Electoral Commission, what percentage of people have not been able to vote today, and who will take the moral responsibility for what has happened, what has been the negative impact of citizens on members of the territorial and district electoral commissions? In addition, the population was not informed by the authorities and, above all, by the Ministry of the Interior of the security measures taken, of the security measures taken during the elections and, above all, of the security of our Central Electoral Commission. As a result, this has led to a lot of misunderstandings and discussions about terrorist acts. You and I remember very well why there were 23 events at night. And I'm sure, and we think it's an investigation, and the reasons are that, suddenly, in a week, someone's trying to create 420 commissions and wherever they are. Let us think logically: Is it real? And I'm sure there wouldn't be 23 in the evening. When we look at how the Central Electoral Commission reacts today and requires direct responsibility from people who, inter alia, are required by the Public Prosecutor's Office to regulate and monitor the rule of law, and you and I know that, for example, 100 commissions in Kirovograd are examples in the Sumskie area, where the members of the district electoral commissions are literally abandoned. And unless there is a final vote count today, respected by colleagues, this is an opportunity and, above all, I appeal to the Central Electoral Commission, it is possible to pressure these district electoral commissions, and it is necessary to change the whole matter in an urgent manner. As a conclusion, we demand that all the misunderstandings identified as a result of the first round be addressed in an urgent manner, and that the second round be followed in an orderly manner. In addition, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I appeal to you, your commission needs to analyse those shortcomings and violations on those territorial commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u43	From the faction. The Communist Party of Ukraine is spoken by Sergey Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u44	Thank you. The election of the President of Ukraine ended on the night of 1 November this year. They ended up defeating the criminal oligarchic regime. And Victor Janukovic, and Victor Fedorovich. Both Victor Janukovic and Victor Yushchenko represent. represent the same force, the same criminal oligarchic force. The difference between them, between the political forces behind them, is no more than the difference between their names. And the victory of Yushchenko, and the victory of Yanukovic, will mean the victory of the current regime, which is mocking Ukraine, in Latin Victoria. During this campaign, which was the most dirty in Ukraine's history, a monstrous farce was broken. These people, who are behind the two candidates, were throwing eggs at each other, and strangely enough, the eggs were laying off the feet of a two-meter-old male, as if they had been treated with the "Bland-a-Mear" pasta. They were spending time with each other, and strangely enough, the bacteriological weapons did not kill anyone, the monster farce played, and the elections showed that the main blow was directed against the Communists they had stolen, according to our calculations, at least 15 per cent of the votes, and those who voted for us would, they would be given the opportunity to look with honor and conscience in the eyes of their grandchildren. The two criminal groups that have clashed in the struggle for power today have gone on a terrible cause, and they're tearing Ukraine apart in two parts. The old principle is to divide and subdue. One more thing: what is happening in Ukraine has shown that, among the left-wing forces, power has provoked the actual breakdown of the left-wing movement of the majority, all the left-wing parties, apart from the communists, have supported one of the two gangs that are still in power today. We, the Communists, say: we will consistently fight against those who mock and mock our Ukraine, whether Yanukovich defeats or defeats Yushchenka, we will do our duty to the people to the end. For us there is no electorate, for us there are people, they vote for us or against us. And our slogan today, "Ukraine without Yanukovic and Yushchenko!".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u45	From the faction of "Our Ukraine," Alexander Zinchenko has the word. Prepare Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u46	A statement from the People's Forces Coalition. On November 1, the Ukrainian people demonstrated convincingly that despite the brutal pressure, the intimidation of citizens, and the numerous attempts at counterfeiting, the people could conquer power. So another myth was destroyed, imposed on us by lying TV channels, a myth of the seemingly undeniable advantage of a superior candidate. Victor Yushchenko is the winner of the first round of elections. The winner, even if you count the votes like the Central Election Commission did. Victor Yushchenko is a national candidate and an undeniable national leader, because he was given the advantage of most citizens in 16 regions of Ukraine, most of Ukraine. In vain, the Central Electoral Commission on November 1st stopped updating the polling stations and did not announce the official results of the elections. She just doesn't dare accept Victor Yushchenk as a winner. The national candidate's sure advantage is also demonstrated by the parallel vote count conducted by Victor Yushchenk's headquarters, the serious advantage of the national candidate over his main opponent is confirmed by the results of an anonymous exit-pol conducted by authoritative sociological centres. So the "Power of the People" coalition requires the head of the Central Election Commission, Kiwalov, to formally publish the results of the first round. Our path to victory was difficult. We are deeply grateful to the Ukrainian people, who have failed to turn themselves into a humble electorate, into subjects of authority. With every day of the campaign, each of us grew, grew braver, and stronger. Victor Yushchenka’s support has steadily increased, and the support of power has declined steadily. The authorities removed the citizens from the lists, intimidated the members of the commission and observers, destroyed and distorted the ballots and protocols, but they failed. The government lost the election, it failed to carry out its main task: to draw its candidate in the first round, or either show him a fictitious advantage in several votes. Today, the whole of Ukraine celebrates the victory of the popular candidate for the Presidential office of Victor Yushchenka. We should welcome this victory to all citizens. But it takes another step, despite all the obstacles, to finally consolidate our choice. Every informed citizen must see again that the lists are correct. On November 21st, each of us will pass the final sentence to this criminal authority. The ruling regime is doomed. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u47	Michael Gladys is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The President's first round of elections took place. By all accounts, he was technologically, psychologically complex. So, frankly, we had to expect that it was in the Supreme Council, sooner or later, that such a conversation should have taken place, because it was, in fact, preprogrammed in advance by separate pre-election political technologies far uncivilized and non-democratic. With regard to participation in the electoral process of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think that Parliament has done its utmost legally to ensure that the electoral process is conducted within the framework of the law, although it has not always been easy to do so. In particular, as we recall, the reaction of a large number of deputies to the establishment of a special parliamentary commission to monitor the elections was mixed. Now we all realize that it was the right decision, it is a pity only that the work on this committee was constantly blocked, and only twice there was a turn in the session room to consider the issue of its activities. In particular, the work of the Central Electoral Commission was to be described. We, the national MPs, have for several months sincerely believed that the CEVC assures us that everything goes according to the law that CVC works closely and productively with each election commission. And what the CFC, in the words of its members, guarantees us is democratic, transparent, honest and politically uninvolved elections. What is more, it guarantees a quick count of votes. And here are the first calculations. I mean, not digital data, but the numerous facts of the violations, most of which are those relating to the will of voters who have been deprived of their voting rights because of someone's negligence and irresponsibility. We should not give any reason, especially that we had and remain a unique opportunity, for the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence, to demonstrate to the world the willingness of our society to hold elections in a civilized democratic way. Therefore, Parliament must do its utmost to ensure that the internal cleansing of the shortcomings accumulated throughout the electoral period and especially on the electoral day takes place as soon as possible. Many of them have been mentioned by previous speakers. Our faction's position on them is clear. Dear friends, we must reject all emotions and focus on the second stage of the election. And once again, to correct the flaws. Depending on who did them, the Supreme Council should give a strict, principled assessment. A further electoral process should take place under closer parliamentary control and in full compliance with Ukraine's electoral legislation and international standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u49	Mikola Petrovich Noshenko from the Hard Ukraine faction. Get ready for Shufrych.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The Hard Ukraine faction. Dear voters, the Hard Ukraine faction divides its constituents, its supporters, Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic. [[Applause]] . Janukovich's government is stability, it's increasing prosperity, it's the future, it's order. This is what opposition fears, for in distress, you feel as if you were a fish in the water. It's a huge amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u51	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u52	The vast number of irregularities recorded in the polling stations indicates the disorder of the individual in the election. Only observers of Viktor Fedorovic's headquarters have found 2,800 violations of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, 1567 acts have been filed, 1,200 complaints have been filed, and they must be counted. Next. More and more attempts are being made to transfer to the session room the problems of the elections that must be resolved in court. And that's what we have to do. Only in court. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to make more strict use of the rule of procedure for violators. I'm dissatisfied with the reporter's response. 23 of us witnessed unprecedented pressure on the Central Election Commission. And we were witnesses when a crowd led by the chiefs of headquarters were crushing, thundering, bullying, and mocking law enforcement officials. Who will be responsible for this? We insist on creating a commission of inquiry and getting answers. The faction is confident of the victory of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, and it calls for working in the legal field. We are Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u53	Yes. May I have your attention, please? Nestor Schufric of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, we stand today after the very important decision of our people and the day before the even more important decision of our people, but we cannot fail to pay attention to the numerous violations we have witnessed. It's about the inadequateness of the electoral lists and the second reason why we certainly can't ignore it is because 5-10 percent of our citizens haven't been able to vote because they haven't been given an organizational opportunity. But in general, the elections in Ukraine were conducted in an honest, transparent manner, in accordance with the law, as illustrated by the conclusions of yesterday by representatives of PARJA, representatives of American congressmen, and observers from the SND countries. These are facts that we cannot ignore. But all these shortcomings must be resolved in the second round. Anyone who wants to vote must be guaranteed, and his constitutional right must be guaranteed. Dear colleagues, today I would like to address those who are always shouting. That someone broke the law, someone stole something. Think of the saying of the thief upon whom the hat burns. Be very careful with the charges. Today, fellow believers, national deputies, we have no right to forget that the law is primarily binding on us with you. We don't have the right to handcuff free Ukrainian citizens, bully them, beat them. We have no right to attack other constitutional bodies. We can find out the relationship here, in this room. Unfortunately, the people of Ukraine are used to this. But we have no right to interfere with an organ like the Central Election Commission. We have no right to forget the responsibility that we have toward those whom we call upon in the street and whom we can cause distress. We are responsible for those we lead. And with regard to the truth, respected colleagues. You're saying that he's manipulating the truth here. You say you won. Now, more details have been submitted, even more votes are calculated: the gap between Victor Fedorovich and Victor Yushchenk increased by three tenths percent and is one percent 21st. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are convinced of Yanukovich's victory! But, dear fellows, who gave it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, speak up. I see. Dear colleagues, speak from MPs and factions. Well, one minute, come on! Finished according to submitted applications. Since the faction of the "Ukraine" was directly mentioned during the performance, you have the right to a replica. Please. So you didn't apply, please. I'm once again, my esteemed colleagues: the applicants are all on the stand. You don't have to insist, that's enough. But you don't have to insist-- enough to say, you don't have to scare me. I want to say again, we have to make an application. You did not apply. So we thought we were exhausted. There is a desire to speak, please. From the "Region of Ukraine" faction, Raisa Bogatirov has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Thank God the first round of elections is over. And we, the Ukrainian National Deputies, the faction of Ukraine, want to thank our colleagues who supported our team, and, above all, the voters who came to the elections from the East to the West, from the South to the North, and made their choice. There is no doubt that our team expected victory in the first round of its candidate, Viktor Yanukovic. And we are proud that this victory in the first round is there. We are grateful to the electorate who supported a person who, not by word of mouth, has made it possible for people today to make their own choices. So no matter how cynical the situation around the elections is, and today in our session hall we have to calm ourselves, first of all, and our electorate who comes to the second round, and you will be able to listen to politicians from the West, my colleagues, listen to politicians from the East and from the Center of My Colleagues, listen to my colleagues from the South and the North, but make your choice, because politics is his personal opinion, and he has the right to judge only the people. So, my colleagues, let's let the people in the second round make a conscious choice on November 21st. And now I want to say that life will not end on November 21st. And it is with you that we must pave the way for dialogue in society and in political dialogue. The first stage showed that Ukraine cannot be divided into the West and the East, into the North and the South. Ukraine is the only one! [[Applause]] And lastly, I'm very sorry that we're assuming. As a doctor, we are encouraged to hang ourselves, to fear biological weapons, and to be afraid of entering the driveway. I mean, I'm giving these politicians an answer to who's so mean to the public: take an owl and clean up after yourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u57	Yes, distinguished national MPs! With the exception of the two factions, all of them took advantage of their right to speak. Who else insists on the performance? I want to make a deal, dear fellows, let's make a deal like this, so we'll look at the applications for the show. Don't tell me you applied. If you were serving, everything would be in place. Please come in. Well, then, don't blame anyone, they didn't give you anything. Yes, from "Democratic Initiatives" will they be performing? No, it's not. So that's when everyone took advantage of their rights. Replica Konovaluk, please. Dear colleagues, I'm just the ones mentioned. You weren't mentioned, please. I'm Igor the rest of you saying I don't need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I would like to refer to Yulia Tymoshenko's deputy that suicides are characteristic of people who have a mental decline and are nervously unstable. And those who today call on people to disobey and commit wrongs must indeed have a problem with it. And we're worried about your health. That's why we decided in the faction to buy you two tickets so that we could take a little bit away from the political struggle and travel to Moscow first, where we would meet those people who were convicted of your financial schemes. If you don't stay there for 10 years, then San Francisco to Lazarenko, with whom you joined the Ukrainian people. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, a white and blue color is the color of hope and justice, and we hope and trust in our victory in the victory of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u59	Yes, the distinguished national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Well, it wasn't called last name, so don't insist, please. Dear National Deputies! Let's finish our speeches and point out the obvious that there are different assessments of the results of the elections. We need to find a common denominator, however, taking into account that there is also a diversion of thought among international observers, that the dispersion of thought is during sociological research. The main thing is, I think we need to create conditions so that every person can be sure that they've gone freely and that their voice and result will be taken into account. For each member of the electoral commission to be convinced that he is acting in harmony with the Law, he is acting in harmony with his conscience. We need, I think, honourable colleagues, to put down our emotions for these three weeks and do everything we can to address together the shortcomings that we've seen in the first round of presidential elections. Obviously we need, I mean the second round of presidential elections, the two candidates to take into account the moods in society that are reflected in the results of the first round. Let's be realistic and get out of the fact that actually the first round of elections showed that there are two about the support of the leaders of Ukraine, and the second round obviously needs to be organized and carried out so that we really have the only one not only in the territorial dimension, but in the moods, according to the aspirations of Ukraine. And to do that, you need a dialogue. A dialogue is needed. I think to demonstrate that we're ready for a dialogue, it'll allow us to demonstrate that we're ready with confidence to see what's going to happen in Ukraine after November 21st. Dear colleagues! Let us proceed to the consideration of the bill according to the schedule of the meeting. The draft Law on the National Program for the Conservation of Soil Fertility has been announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5754]] Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Mr. Sergeyev Vasil Viktorovich. Lechchenko Vladimir Aleksyyovich will be the narrator. From the committee, then, who will be speaking? The weaver. This is a rule for the report, up to 5 minutes; answers to questions, up to 5 minutes, for a co-report, respectively, 3 minutes and 3 minutes; discussion and decision-making, 12 minutes. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy in conjunction with the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences in accordance with the final provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Land Protection and to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 31 July 2003. It was based on regional soil fertility programs approved by the equipment that provides the program of balance and rigour. The present state of soil fertility does not ensure the production of agricultural products in the quantities needed to address the nation’s food security. One of the most important factors in the conduct of high-productive, competitive agricultural production is the reproduction and conservation of soil fertility, the prevention and prevention of degradation processes, which are largely determined by the nature of land use. The aim of the programme is to promote public policy in the field of land reproduction and fertility protection, rational use of agricultural land, increase agricultural crops, increase production of high-quality and environmentally sound production, gain stable income from enterprises, strengthen their financial and economic conditions, eliminate negative developments in the modern development of soil processes and, as a result, ensure the food security of the state. The programme is expected to be implemented in three stages, but given that the implementation of the national land use and protection programme is planned in two stages, it is also considered appropriate to provide for the implementation of the national land fertility programme in two stages. It should be noted that both national and national programs are closely linked, are to be considered and accepted in a package. At the same time, however, they are entirely independent programs. The national programme aims to implement measures for use and protection in all categories of land. It involves 15 central executives and other institutions. At the same time, the purpose of the national program is to protect the most valuable property of soil fertility in just one category of agricultural land. The implementation of the program through agrotechnical, agrochemical, organizational, economic, and environmental measures will provide a comprehensive solution to the problem of soil reproduction and fertility and will be of exceptional social relevance by addressing the problem of improving agricultural productivity by taking into account the radical changes that will take place in the agricultural sector. In order to address these issues 40 years ago, a state agrochemical service was created, which during this period became the State Ministry for the Conservation of Soil Fertility. For seven agrochemical tours, which have now become agrichemical passports for agricultural land. There was a huge amount of information received on soil quality, fertility, heavy metal pollution, pesticide residues, and after the Chernobyl disaster and radionuclei. So the project of the program that is being considered today has not only purpose and purpose, but Min agropolitics also have a structure that will be based on the development and monitoring of the program. The total amount of funding for the programme is 51 billion dollars, medium - 4.6 dollars, including government budget expenditure - 6.9 billion, or 600 million dollars per year on average. According to previous estimates, the global economic impact of measures to increase soil fertility is estimated at almost 30 billion dollars. In addition, the economic effect of implementing the program is to pause the ground. processes
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u61	Please point to the chart: 5 minutes of Karmazin, followed by Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, I've been very familiar with the text of the bill, in fact, it's from four points, and in fact it's in the form of a decree that recommends that the government do something and so forth. Don't you think it's necessary to rename, as it's in accordance with the Constitution, this program, which is called a national one, as it's called a national one. Don't you think it's time to determine what's already in the budget that this budget needs to be written down now and the government's mandate to write it down, because there's nothing for this spending. And so to improve this bill, which is definitely necessary, but of course it's a little bit raw, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u63	Thank you. In general, your proposals have already been taken into account in the sense that the national programme will be an integral part of the national programme. With regard to funding, we certainly look forward to the budget next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u64	Please, Matvienkov. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u65	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Vassil Victorovich. I'm a little bit concerned with what Mr. Carmazin is now asking. I'd like to clarify a little bit for myself. You're saying that the program is comprehensive, targeted. Indeed, it requires serious sources of funding. The programme was developed before 2015. To date, we do not see any funding mechanisms in it at all. What's he talking about? That each budget, we will say so with an extended hand and finance it, based on the residual principle, on the mechanism of what we bet, or how do you see the sources and ways of financing the programme? How can it be implemented in practice?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u66	It will be in the 2005 budget as a separate line, we provide for the same. We can't offer anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u67	Please, Solomon. He's behind him, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u68	Please give my word to my colleague Novak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u69	Please, Novak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u70	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. The implementation of this programme should contribute to a comprehensive solution to problems in the field of land use and protection. That's understandable. But literally through one law, we're going to be looking at another issue -- the national soil fertility program. Both of these documents, as I understand it, were developed in the Cabinet of Ministers, are government documents. It's such an impression that in the Ministry, you, Mr. Vassil Viktorovich, people don't know what they're doing. Documents have been developed in such a way that the execution periods, the stages of the programme on the state-wide land use and protection programme, are three stages, and the national land fertility programme is two steps. Well, you don't get the impression that there's some way to reconcile and sort it out?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u71	Thank you. We've agreed to bring these programmes together, I'll do it again. I noted this both in the presentation and in response to previous questions that the national programme would form an integral part of the State-wide programme. And when we consider this issue in an agrarian committee, we have decided to bring these programmes together, especially since the national programme only addresses the problem of increasing soil fertility and the general public in general refers to all categories of soil.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u72	Please, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u73	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Vassil Viktorovich, no doubt the earth is the most precious hole in nature that needs a particularly careful attitude and care. So the development of such a program is absolutely necessary. And our faction, as in many other cases, supports the government's initiative and votes in favour of a national land fertility programme. But I have this question for you: have there ever been such programs or concepts as soil fertility, soil fertility protection? If so, how were they carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u74	Thank you. Indeed, such a programme existed in Ukraine from 1965 to 1990, and I, if I may, had two digits: in 1990 we came up with the following indicators: mineral fertilizers we imported up to 120-140 kilograms per hectare, last year 12; organic fertilizers we introduced in 1990 at the end of the 10 tons programme, and last year less than one tonne. Therefore, with regard to the effectiveness of the programme that worked in the 1965-1990s, we have not only been able to stabilize the NPC in the country, but even to increase the individual nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u75	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, you see, and the first reporter has already talked about that we are now discussing with you two programs that should be complementary, and even more precisely that this should be one state-wide program. Because two departments were being developed, so Vladimir Mikolaiovich, and they didn't know what one hand was doing or what the other one was doing, because this is the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, and there is the State Committee. But let's do more wisely, as our committee of profile suggests: let's now listen to them together and discuss them and make the right decision, as always. I therefore invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Garbus Mikhail Jurkovic, Bill 5755, draft law on a state-wide programme on land use and protection, and then we will both discuss it together. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The social significance of the land as a natural resource for multi-purpose use and a precondition for the development of productive forces determines the priority of its function as a spatial basis for the deployment of productive forces, the main means of production and the subject of work in the areas of the national economy and the source of food needs for the population. Regrettably, the current state of affairs does not fully meet the requirements of rational environmental management and requires the development of degradation processes, which are observed in 20 percent of the land. Water and wind erosion yields more than 14.9 million hectares of agricultural land, or 32 percent of the total area. At the legislative level today, the basic principles and tasks of State policy in the area of land protection are defined by the Ukrainian Land Protection Code and the Ukrainian Land Protection Act. At the request of the latter, and the development of a draft Ukrainian Law on State-wide Programme for Land Use and Protection, as well as a national programme for soil fertility, which has just been presented to you. Such a program, that is, a national land use and protection program, has been developed and brought to your attention today. In order to achieve the objective and achieve the main objectives of the programme, by 2015, it is envisaged to reduce agricultural development by three million 47.9 thousand hectares, or 9.4 percent, by removing degraded, low-productive and radioactively polluted land from intensive agricultural use and transporting it to natural areas. The area of agricultural land will fall by six percent and will be up to 39.3 million hectares, or 65.1 percent of the country’s total area, including a growth of 29.3 million hectares, or 48.5 percent. A total of about 430.7 million dollars (853.2 hectares) is available. The programme also foresees an increase in the land area of the natural-inventory fund due to a decrease in agricultural and other land use costs and an increase of up to six million 276.9 thousand hectares, or 10.4 percent of the country's territory. The extension of the land of health is projected at 3.1 thousand hectares, or 13 percent according to the Resort Development Programme and the inclusion of it in the Eco-Network. The total area of these lands will be more than 27,000 hectares. The increase in land. The target is 7.4,000 hectares or 6.9 percent by the development of tourist health facilities and other facilities in the stationary area. There is also an increase of 50,000 hectares in the total area of historic and cultural land. The creation of a system of strips, forest lanes, and other protected forests in the area of 195.5,000 hectares, resulting in an increase in forestry from 17.3 percent to 18.3 percent. There is also a slight increase in the land of the water fund. In addition, there is a reduction in industrial land areas and especially under open development, careers, mines, as appropriate. about 8 percent of these buildings. This program is expected to be executed in two stages. The first stage. By the year 20, legislative, scientific, information and organizational improvements are envisaged, the rational use and protection of land at the national level, the development and implementation of economic mechanisms for land use management. The second phase is the implementation of measures envisaged by regional land use and protection programmes and the monitoring and implementation of these measures. [[This is 2010-2015.]] The total amount of funding is 22.8 billion dollars, the average of 2.7 billion. Including at the expense of the State budget totalling 3.12 billion dollars, the average of 0.28 billion dollars, and at the expense of landowners and land users by their consent 1968 billion dollars in total, the average of 1.7. 8 tenths of a billion dollars. Dear National Deputies! The draft data has been processed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u77	Yes, thank you. Please, can I ask you a question? Please sign up. Please explain for five minutes. Bondarenko, follow by Droguntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Reporter! Today, in the press, the truth is largely in the opposition, there is an increasing incidence of reports of large lands being taken under Kiev, including in reserved areas, the purpose of taking them under shelter or under construction by some housing and office centres. The same is true of the Crimea. Again, it's just from the press. I'm told, for example, that the former Forros complex is distributed among individual citizens of Ukraine and not Ukraine, separate large areas under Yalta. Is this known today in public authorities, or is there anyone who is conducting an analysis of this divisive practice that has recently become popular? Obviously, the authorities and those who support them fear that a change will take place in the near future and will be more difficult to resolve, for only in this regime can the land be decimated. Do you know about this and what steps are being taken?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. I want to say to this question that according to the mandates of those given to local self-government authorities, the executive authorities, according to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, if the documents are properly passed by the relevant authorities, we give appropriate positive or negative results. As a matter of fact, I'm going to tell you that the program that we're presenting today, I want to say that by 2015, the land of housing and public oblivion is expected to be proven. will be 2,46 million hectares of land or will make up 4.1 percent of the total, which is also projected to increase land collection for housing and public buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u80	Please, Drogunzov, follow Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u81	Dear reporter! Please tell me, how has the problem of your national programme, the agricultural reform in Ukraine, more specifically, the land reform in Ukraine affected the solution? Does it contribute to the trimming of land, the sale of land, the donation of land, and so forth to the protection of land, the improvement of its quality, and so forth? I know this is not a good question for you, because you just have to say what you say, but above all, I would like to hear your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. I'd like to say that what I said is that there are degradation processes -- wind and water erosion, it started not today, not 10 years ago, 15, 20, maybe more years ago. And for today, we want to take the first steps, the real first steps, to protect the use of the land. Of course, the measures that we've been taking today have been used, first and foremost, and for minimal sources of funding, like all land managers, I've also called the previous statement, and it's the authorities of local self-government, because it's their authority, the executive authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u83	Please, Melniczuk, follow him, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u84	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Mikhailo Jurkovic, two questions. You answer me that. First question. Is your government’s program designed to reduce the size of industrial and other productions? Is it not meant that land will be removed that is not used by industrial enterprises? That's the first one. And how do you predict that the possibility of removing farmland from arable land is possible? We know that if they have not entered the arraigned land, they are now privatized, that is, they are not deprived, that today a peasant has either a certificate, or an act of land ownership, the right to ownership of land, how will they be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u85	Thank you for asking, I would like to point out immediately that the program does not provide for removal or use or ownership. It primarily provides for a certain regime for the use of land of either property or property, and for the definition of this mode of use at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u86	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u87	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of Homeland, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenko's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear Mikhail Juryevich, please tell me, I have already asked the question not once that your celebrity committee has given you documents on what basis you provide to the President's family through the company "All. The roads of 154 hectares are owned by Kozin. Plus 110 acres for 50 years, or 49 years for rent. I didn't ask once the question that we had a good recreational potential, and you're writing it on page 3 of your program. But how can we return the sanatorium today to the people of Ukraine, and how can this people be healed? You don't write anything. Go to Odessa, go to Crimea, you see that in the sanatoriums' territory speculation by land, 30-40,000 US dollars is one hundred dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the program also foresees an increase in the land of natural conservation, health, recreation and historical and cultural purposes, bringing them to 3.8% of the total area, and I want to ask once again the question that the Committee does not have an orderly function for land administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. As we agreed, the opinion of the profile committee will be expressed by Tchac Roman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee discussed and discussed at its meeting on October 19th this year, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine draft laws on the National Land Use and Protection Programmes, registration number 5755 of 5.07.2004, and the National Land Fertility Programme, registration number 5754 of 5.07.2004, aimed at determining the direction of the State policy to minimize the negative impact on land resources, to protect land from pollution and depletion, to ensure the rational use of land, as well as the first priority measures aimed at halting the degradation processes of soils, ensuring their fertility and other beneficial properties, to preserve environmental land cover functions to effectively address the challenges of food and environmental sustainability. The committee generally supports the adoption of the bill, but it believes that these bills should be harmonized and consolidated into a single bill. This is particularly true of the setting up of practical steps for the implementation of software, which are defined differently in the selected programs. We've already spoken about it here today, fellow national MP. In this way, the National Programme project provides for two stages of implementation, and the National Program project three stages. It would be appropriate to eliminate the difference noted. It would also be useful to include several draft laws on various types of protection zones that are now registered in the Supreme Council in the Universal Programme for Land Use and Protection. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bills listed can be adopted as a basis. In view of the Committee’s presentation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes draft laws on the National Programme for the Use and Protection of Lands and on the National Program for the Fertility of Lands, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis and, in preparation for the second reading, to merge the bills into one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u91	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, dear colleagues, as you and I have agreed, I would like to ask the speakers, and we have 16 national MPs on two bills. Of these, six national deputies are written in one bill or another. So I would very much ask those to whom we will now give the floor to express ourselves and to discuss two bills. And I think all those who want to speak will have the opportunity if we take 27 minutes to do so. Please, Mironenko. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u92	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! As we consider the draft national programme for the protection of the soil's fertility, let us first answer the question: Why did the soil's fertility drop sharply compared to the socialist period? We remember that, in a Communist direction, the State, in expressing the interests of the people, has provided enormous assistance to the village. Farmers had money for fertilizers, techniques, and the possibility of turning the country around. At present, in a capitalist direction, which is falsely called a democratic one, as everyone has understood, not the interests of the people, but the interests of the great capitalists, i.e. the oligarchs and those who serve the oligarchs who carry out the universal privatization of the economy, fragmentation, fragmentation of enterprises. Most farmers do not have the capacity to rotate, buy fertilizers and equipment due to fragmentation and impoverishment. If, in a communist direction, heavy-duty truckers bought Russian Ladas, they don't have any gas for this Ice. But the thieves, the oligarchs, are flourishing, who have now reached the finish line of two of their representatives. And I can see why they got through it. Because only what was paid was given to the media, and the same Company had no link to the U.S. funds in the oligarchus faction. So look who went to the so-called "leaders"? The leaders were those who used oligarch funds and American funds. It's bitter truth. The people have not yet realized this, but in the coming years they will understand that choosing thieves and those who serve oligarchs will not do any good to the American funds. We remember that in a communist direction, farmers had the right to buy five tons of nitrogen fertilizer for one tonne of wheat. Only half-tons can buy them now. Only half-tons. So we see that 10 times the situation has changed to the worst for the farmer. Well, of course, the Communist faction will support these bills. At the same time, it insists on the need for a systematic approach to the problems of the village, to increase soil fertility, to ensure that our proposals, the proposals of the Communist Party of Ukraine, are accepted in order to develop the village. Well, what we're about to do is I think everyone already understands that nothing good is waiting for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u93	Please. The word has a national MP, Melniczuk, to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u94	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. It's normal when two programs are brought together for discussion, but still they're going to say that both of us are responding to the question of increasing the fertility of the land, saving the land, and so on. But each one has its own accent. Clearly, then, it is difficult to talk about two programs. But I'd like to put it this way that we would like to get an answer to these questions, especially the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine: who will answer for not being processed in Ukraine today about 10 million hectares of Ukrainian Blacklands? Who will be responsible for the fact that no limestone, plastering, erosion, degraded lands have been fought over the past 10 years? Without exaggeration, I will say that in Ukraine millions of hectares of land have been degraded today, and the land is no longer suitable for farming. But if both the programme and the budget, the draft budget for 2005, I have a question, dear friends, which government is giving these programs? Is it today’s government, or is it the government of Kinnah, which is no longer there? If today is the case, why is it that the draft budget does not allocate funds at all for these purposes? So for whom do we provide these programs: for a peasant who already is sorry not to cheat, because he already knows who is cheating; or for whom have we submitted these two programs? I believe, dear friends, that as long as we are parliamentarians, we will not learn to support the state programmes that clearly have financial support. Look at these goals. Fifty million dollars — what is it for Ukrainian black people? It's practically nothing. For limestone, I say once again, there's no amount of money left. And I would like to ask you what the other bill provides for a 27-55 reduction in the land of industrial and other production. Mikhail Juryovich didn't say to me, "This is a decline, they're going to take away the land of industrial enterprises or what? Or an increase in the natural-inhibited recreational, healthful destination of land? What's that? On the one hand, we're giving up reserve zones to the oligarchs, and on the other hand, what are we going to take to the peasant and give it to them? Nevertheless, honourable factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine support these two state-wide programs. But we will demand from the government that they have been strengthened and financially, otherwise we will not vote for the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u95	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. Solomon will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u96	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I welcome the fact that the election will probably end in one stage, because for everyone, it's obvious that Victor Yushchenko won. I welcome our citizens who are today fooled by information. Now I've been informed that the broadcast is off again in Odessa's hero city. Well, we're used to it. With regard to this issue, they are now absolutely correct in the hall that the government has not understood and has not been able to bring together the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the State Committee on Land Resources, and gives the government two different programs that are not even agreed upon in stages. There are two stages, there are three stages. Terms are completely different. Other funding is provided. Dear friends! In general, I refer to any program in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitution stipulates that only national programmes are approved by the Supreme Council, the first, not national ones. It would also be desirable to read to the professor with two "f" Viktor Yanukovic, for whom these inscriptions are agitated in the hall. And also the honourable national MPs, I would like to make it clear that if we take money from the budget, I have data that there's a "bomb" in the budget. Why? The bomb is only for these elections. Overpayment in the Odessa region alone, i.e. broke down 333 million dollars in advance from entrepreneurs. This overpayment was initiated when he was head of the State Tax Administration, Mikola Janović Azarov. It's a state crime. I mean, whoever doesn't get to power will continue to fund nothing, because in every area, the overpayment of the budget is from 200 million dollars to a billion dollars. In every area, such an illusion of deception was created only for elections. So, honourable national MPs, I think both of these programs have to be rejected for finalization, rejected for finalization and for reconciliation in the government itself, first. And second. It should be clearly stated how the land of recreational destination will be returned to their status as well as to others. Well, that's the end of it. This was where Raj Bogetirov appeared. I want to ask, "What's the credit in the Vodica Desert for this guy getting 6 hectares of reserve money?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u97	The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u98	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We are with you as we see the government of capitalist ministers trying to set up some things that didn't exist in Soviet times because there were no such problems, or if they were, they were going to do the normal way. I want to start with the second draft of the National Land Use and Protection Programme. It's a very painful question. We have a committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster very carefully considered this bill. And we associated this with the painful problems and questions that people, Kiev residents, and especially Kiev are addressing. An example. The Feofania festivities. Determining land. Kiev. Around Kiev’s waterfront, land plots Obukhiv district, the village of Kozin, is deserted. So let's be honest with you. Any law that will be passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not stand guard, and the warnings of such a debacle of those who have captured capital and now want to put them in the ground. And so I want to find the ground in the capital that they got. The second bill on the National Program for the Conservation of Soil Fertility. The most painful question is that you and I know very well that 20 percent of productive land is not used, weeds are grown, fertility is lost, and so forth. At the same time, Sergeyev's report, Vasil Viktorovich, was called, more faithfully, in response to the question that in Soviet times, mineral fertilizer was centralized and imported into the land to maintain fertility of up to 140 kilograms per hectare and in 2003 only 12. And I'd like to ask you, Your Honor Vassil Sergiyovich. If we approve such a program and the money that you will have as a separate term in the State Budget, how are you going to distribute among those landowners, not the large-scale production that we had, but those who have already seized this land, you will, as we will say, be the Hotabic of the fable, thrown out of one pocket, gave it to one, and threw it out of the other pocket, gave it to the other? Therefore, when considering the second reading, we need to be more specific about how the money will be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u99	The word has a national MP, Rudzkowski, to prepare Tomenko. Yeah, I can't see Rudzkowski. Please, Mikola Tomenko, behind him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block. I wanted to continue with Yuri Karmazin's thesis in part of what, of course, must be a system of understanding and logic of what the government is offering and cannot save the land by fertility, by price and by region. There is only one need for a serious state program, but there must be tools in this government program that can be understood. You remember when we had the Ministry of Ecology at least to figure out what we were doing there as a minister. We're fired. By the way, he was on the NDP quota. But even if he was doing something wrong, it didn’t help what most people did. Today, I don't see any real tools to figure out the first thing that's happened. and then -- not allowing for illegal privatization, or the pseudo-privatization of the health zone. First of all, those areas where people were resting and resting. I'm preparing papers to give us an example of the story with the Empty Guide, and we're going to put the dots over the i. You know that the Kyiv authorities transferred 200 hectares of desert water from the health zone and distributed it to the better people of Ukraine. By how much you know on national channels you can't tell people that, I'll tell you here. Viktor Yanukovic was given six and a half acres [6.22 ha] to a representative of CBC by Stepan Gavrish, Nestor Sufrich, three and a half acres [3.22 ha], Georgi Kirpi, six and a half acres [6.52 ha], Raisi Bogatirov, one and a half acres [1.82 ha], Alexander Zadrozhny, five and nine acres [5.9 ha], and Mikolli Biloconu, 0.85 ha]. There is a category of national MPs who doubted whether to vote for the reform or not. Whoever decided to vote got on the list. There are many interesting people there, such as the governors of Vadim Löshenko - Governor of the Cherkas region, the first secretary of the SDPU. I realize that he realizes that he will not be in this position for long, but if all the heads of the district organizations are to give the Kyiv health care zone, the Chinese may have to leave Ukraine somewhere. So I stand in the position that a special investigator commission should be created not only in the history of 200 hectares of Desert Waters. We need to see how the healing areas of the Carpathians are now being distributed, the healing areas of the Crimea. As lists and two decisions are made, this is first transferred to a health - care area and then seems to specific people. I'm just going to say, what's the logic of Kiev? Let's say, for example, Stephen Gavrish, he's the first one on my list. So he's got six hundred and twenty-two acres of private property, and the rest he's renting for forty-nine years. Experts from the Kyiv City Administration say that he will pay 140 - 150 dollars for renting a hectare. You know the price of Kiev, which is on the ground. For this property or for private property, at least three million. I understand that Stepan Bogdanovich says he wants to live in the woods. We all want to live in good conditions. But we need to think about the people, and then we need to think about ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u101	National deputy of the school, followed by the black man. I can't see the school. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u102	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's block. Honorable National MPs. The land in Ukraine is not sand in the Sahara. It's her basic national wealth. In Ukraine, about 30 percent of the world’s black lands. And our sacred duty is to preserve these lands, improve their fertility, and make effective use of them. Or we could say that's what's going on. No, it's not. There are three major problems. The first problem is that soil fertility is being destroyed, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down. The soil is exhausted, the fertility is gone. So the problem is to reproduce soil fertility, increase soil fertility, and you need a package of measures to do that. Another problem. It's a land of recreational meaning, of health significance, of conservation zones. Again, we see them coming down both under Kiev and in Crimea and in Zakarpatta. There's a log of these lands. And no one is alarmed; the authorities indulge it, and they are involved. And this process needs to be stopped. The third problem is land use and land protection in general. In this regard, the two bills passed by the government according to their orientation are valid. And in general, they could be supported, or even supported. But we can see that these bills are not mutually agreed upon. For us to accept them, we need to agree. And I support the proposal that one bill should be prepared. And, indeed, there is no government, we see a reconciliation of actions between the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the Committee on Land Resources. Let them deal with each other, let them take two bills, make one, and we'll support it. They are also declarative, declarative bills. This is a declaration of intent. We need to write more clearly the mechanisms, such as funding: how the bill will be financed. And finally, the responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u103	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, I would like to make two such announcements. First, if you don't mind, let's do it, because now we have a break, we're going to finish this question, we're going to have a few minutes literally left. Then we'll call it a break, we'll call it a break. I see there's almost no objection. And the second. Once again, I would like to remind you of the rule of the Rules: when someone makes a statement and he is not in the session room, he does not get the word. But I'll make an exception for you today. And please, Rudzkowski. Get ready for Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! For socialists, the issue of the earth is central to political decision - making. We believe that the Ukrainian people now have the only one -- it's not yet privatized by the oligarchic clans. As we consider these laws, we see that the earth, after criminal agricultural reform, is not getting what most regions of Ukraine should receive. This is done specifically to reduce the purpose of the land and to privatize it for a penny. What is happening to the land around Kiev is that the earth focuses on the foundations of the coins in order to be transferred from the agricultural assignment to the building site in the future. The land in the north of Montenegro and in the north of Ukraine — plain, Volin — does not break down, it grows with weeds. We can see that in Poltavska, Winnica’s land is used poorly, three times in a row, sown with sunflowers, pumping everything out of the earth without any agricultural production standards. So we, the socialists, are asking all the national MPs to immediately put questions to the vote on the prohibition of land privatization, on the change in the agricultural production system in Ukraine, to make changes to land reform in order to restore large-scale agricultural production, to restore irrigation, to return the crop rotation, to return large-scale livestock to provide organic fertilizer for the land. Otherwise, what we have is the most valuable thing we will ever lose in Ukraine. And that's why the position of socialists, Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz, the laws that protect the land must be upheld. But we must also draw conclusions, conclusions, from those steps that have recently been taken by previous governments and the President of Ukraine. That is why we need first to vote against land privatization, to make changes to legislation that will enable the State to care for land at the level that the land needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u105	Please have Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! We in Ukraine today have remained among all the values: first the President, second the Supreme Council, and third the earth, we have nothing left. Since this is about the earth, I would like to say that this is a burning, burning issue. A major blow, a devastating blow, may not be a corrective blow to the restoration of fertility, not to the restoration, but an increase in fertility and land protection was imposed by the so - called agrarian reform. Therefore, it seems to us Communists that the best decision would be to reverse this agrarian reform from the very beginning, restore state ownership to the ground, restore collective ownership to the ground, without touching the adjacent areas, certainly with those lands that have always been used by peasants. I want to say that we have beautiful technologies in Ukraine, and even in the world, there are beautiful technologies that provide protection and recovery, improvement of land fertility. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the colporteur’s sacred memory in the Shishai region of Poltava, which was headed by Antonec’s famous agrarian. He, along with Professor Shikull, introduced new technology for the free processing of soil. And this technology has produced remarkable results. Grain yields reached 60, 70, 80 centimetres per hectare. And that's not the only technology. But such technologies can only be used on large land masses. So I think that the attempt to purchase land for private property in large areas is precisely related to this point of application of new technologies on these lands, as spoke of by a representative of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Dear friends! Our position is this, the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine -- we need to adopt these laws and because the first law is very specific, it only touches on issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u107	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, discussion of the issue, and more precisely two issues of the draft Law on the National Program for the Fertility of Lands, and the National Programme for the Use and Protection of Lands, have been completed. We're gonna have to make a decision. I ask, colleagues, to prepare for the vote and inform, once again, I remind the opinion and the committee of profile, and the opinion of the rapporteurs from both departments, and almost 100 percent of the position of all those who participated in the discussion is that you and I should adopt both bills as a basis and entrust the committee of profile at the second reading to unite these two bills and to consider, in the second reading, to be the only national programme related to land protection. So I'm going to put both of these bills to the vote on adopting them as a basis in the order in which we discussed them. There is a vote on the adoption of the National Fertility Program Draft Act. [[Registration number 5754]] Please vote. [[12:09:26]] For 219 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 24, Regions - 53, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 15, Union - 0, only Ukraine - 13, Center - 6, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 5, Deminiciative - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 6. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Universal Programme for Land Use and Protection. [[Project registration number 5755]] Please vote. [[12:10:32]] For 218. Our Ukraine - 4, Regions - 59, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 0, only Ukraine - 14, Center - 11, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 9, Deminiciative - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 6. Please write it down for 3 minutes. Please explain. There's something about the system that's mutiny like the C.V.C. Please restart. Please sign up for the performance again. p, li It's from a motive. Please explain. Three minutes. Carmazin, follow by Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u108	Yuri Karmazin, you see how the Yanukovich government supports his faction. I ask you to pass the word to Victor Pinzenik, who knows how right it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u109	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Like these two draft laws, it's the possibility of a debasing of money, not solving fertility problems or protecting land. So Victor Yushchenka's block insists that these laws be directed at rereading the first reading, where there should be a clear set of procedures whereby money will go to restore fertility and save money. and the preservation of the protection of money, sorry, the lands, not going to fill the pockets of individual parts, so we will support the targeting of the re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u110	Please, Colonyari, prepare Matthew's Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to pass the word to Sulkovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u112	Please, Sulkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You know, these are all discussions, they're not all business, not specific and manipulative anymore, so, dear friends, let's honestly put our hands on our hearts, and here are the national deputies enough right now in the session room, and whoever's not already talking, whoever's not manipulating is not. This bill, if we were to vote now, it's for the benefit of everyone, it's for the benefit of, first of all, the Ukrainian people, and it doesn't have to be manipulated into saying that it's a bad bill and so on and so forth. If the rostrum is used for political affairs, they go for it, specifically for the people -- against it. So I urge you, Adam Ivanovich, to put the vote to a vote now, and we will also.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u114	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I'd like to ask respectable colleagues who don't vote. Nevertheless, the requirements of the Rules state that a national MP should be defined in the Supreme Council Hall by a draft law that is being considered by a higher legislative body of the State. Therefore, if there is a particular position, it could be claimed. With regard to these two draft laws, Adam Ivanovich. The only way to do this is to put it to a vote, who's to go back to those issues, and then decide them in order and whether or not the results of the vote. Perhaps it would be better to reread the first reading, as there are many comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u117	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. There's really not enough votes for us to take these two programs as a basis today. And then, of course, you could work on them. So, Adam Ivanovich, I'm making a proposal. Re-vote these two state programs, take them as a basis and work them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we made a statement. Two suggestions were made. One was to put the vote again. And the second was to send for the rereading of the first reading. Let's be clear. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, vote. who is responsible for returning to voting on the issues related to Bills 5754 and 5755. Please vote. [[12:16:55]] For 186 Not accepted. There was a second suggestion, there was a proposal to re-read both bills. I'm going to put it to a vote and put it this way: send both bills to read again and ask the Cabinet of Ministers to send one already generalized bill. Is that an offer coming through? Please vote. There is a vote on the re-reading of the two bills, the draft Law on the National Program on Soil Fertility and the draft Law on the National Programme for Land Use and Protection. Registration numbers 5754 and 5755 with the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers to submit a single harmonized bill. Please vote. [[12:18:05]] For 252 Decision taken. The projects are sent for re-reading with the proposal to issue the only agreed project. Thank you, Your Honor. A break of 20 minutes is announced. The meeting has begun. Excuse me, 30 minutes. I see I have 20 on my monitor. Opening of the sitting after a recess of 12 hours 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we'll take up jobs. You know, I looked at the flag, I looked at the scarf, and I thought that never, ever after a break, could there be as many people as we have now, but it turns out that these are "unsuspected objects." Let us continue our consideration of matters. There is a draft law on State support for innovation, the registration number of Law 4108. This is a report from the National MP Stanecki and a report from the Nikolanko Preparatory Committee. There's no Stanick, I can't see, right? Then please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u120	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Nikolayenko, head of the Committee on Science and Education, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The Act, which was proposed by the National MP of Stanick on State support for innovation, stipulates that the benefits provided by a number of laws are primarily on scientific and scientific and technological activities, on State forecasting and development of Ukraine's economic and social development programme, on innovative activities, on a special regime for investment in technological parks, on priority directions for innovation and other normative legal acts which, when taxed and regulated, should not be halted or reversed in time and can never be repealed or suspended by the State Budget Act. Why did the National MP submit the bill? That's what the committee thinks, because when we look closely at the structure of our industrial production, when we look closely at what's happening to us, we see that only one hundred percent of the world's scientific production is produced in our industry, and the productivity of our work is about 6-8 percent of the level of developed countries. In this regard, we have created a legislative field with you to support innovative activities, that is, activities based on new knowledge. It's an economy that envisions the introduction of advances in science and technology. At the same time, for several years in a row, and especially in the last two years, a whole series of these legislative acts that allow us to develop our industry are halted by the State Budget Act. And so our businesses that would like to work today that would really want to do innovation activity, new products, high-tech products, these enterprises actually don't get support from us, from the legislators, from the government. And that's why this government practice: stopping the Budget Act is a whole series of articles -- I think it's one that contradicts the Constitution. Well, you can’t accept that only every 20 companies in the last year have used innovative projects! I think that the fact that the government today declares innovative trends and in practice stops them is a bitter truth. Therefore, the Committee on Science and Education supports the bill of the People's Deputy and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in the first reading. Although we do have a lot of comments here that we propose to work on in the second reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Please explain. Yes, we'll take five minutes. It's a dragoon. Behind him is Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u122	Stanislav Mikolaiovich, Your Honor, we have the initiative of a committee in which you work as head, adopted by the Supreme Council by a number of such important laws. For example, about innovative activities. That's not enough. The main directions of innovation were adopted. And a whole series of other such acts that relate to these points concerning innovation in higher education laws and so on. I would like to ask you how we can, in today's situation and in today's budget code, resist this line to freeze such laws that are very important. I would also like to know who put the first prime minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u123	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, as my committee colleague and senior associate, thank you for asking. Indeed, today the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law, for example, on innovation, predicted that 50 percent of the value added tax and income tax, and also allowed accelerated depreciation of the core funds, 50 percent of the land tax on the established standard, then, let's say, other benefits encouraged those productions that produced high-tech, scientific and technological developments and so on. Unfortunately, three years in a row, and actually I want to tell you, virtually all the governments that have worked have used this norm -- the suspension of an article of a law. This year, 36 articles on education law alone are contained in the 2004 draft budget. Articles 36! Including this index to the average wage industry of educational people and so forth. So I would like to say, Sergey Ivanovich, the bill that the colleague is proposing, he's basically saying that people are good, let's do the law. It's the law of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u124	Please, Melniczuk. Behind him is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u125	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, I have been in many regions of Ukraine for about two weeks, and today there are calls from educators. Everyone knows what you've done and our faction of the Socialist Party has been passed by the law on repayment of debts to teachers. Teachers are indignant that all of this will be brought to them if it is a gift from the government. I would like you, from this high rostrum of Parliament, to explain to the educators that this is a long-standing work of yours, as the heads of the committee, and the factions of ours, and all those who supported this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u126	Dear Michael Vasilovich! You're always right. First of all, I would like to say that in 1996, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I had to report this bill, it was passed the Education Act, which did not contain a provision, in particular, article 57, which provided for the payment of internships, payments, for example, for the treatment of supplements, and for the indexation of medium-sized industries, for the employees of higher education, for example, indexation to the medium-sized industries, for the employees of just secondary schools, vocational schools and so on. We introduced these standards: one in 1997, one in 1998. And that's when, by the way, Alexander Frost was the head of the Supreme Council. But I want to tell you that the governments after that have had a shameful practice of stopping these articles. And here's the government meeting this year, more faithfully, to finally implement part of the September 1 law. And actually, really, we haven't talked about this for a year, and he did. But this, I think, really, this is where the election worked. That's good. And I think this particular celebration is those smart MPs who are sitting in this room, to the extreme extent of the large part that they're sitting right now, who were insisting that debt be repaid. And what everyone's ascribed to, I want to say to you, "Everybody's a strategist, sees a fight on the side." They all voted against it, opposed it, but now they had to accept our right to act. Without education and science, there is no developed state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u127	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u128	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I perform without association, without food and more land. And I've got a question for you. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! Please tell me, or is there a guarantee that the government, even this law that we are currently discussing, will not, at the time of the adoption of the budget as well as other laws, throw another bill on the side of the budget process, and we will then submit another bill of 14152 to support the bill of honorary colleague Stanislavovich. [[I hope we accept it.]] on behalf of another Ukrainian national deputy in support of the fact that the government has no right to do what it does. Please tell me, is it not foolish to discuss such matters at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u129	I want to tell you that every Ukrainian national MP is entitled to a legislative initiative. The Ukrainian MP Stanecki passed a bill that says that all the laws I'm talking about. Which I counted, they don't have, they shouldn't have reverse action in time and they can't be cancelled or suspended in the State Budget Act, which is the answer to the problem that you've set up. But what I'd like to say is, really, I know that after the presidential election, when it's done. Many of the social laws in the 2005 budget will be converted, folded, and here you are right. So I think that such a bill might exist, which we are looking at today, and it needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The report is closed. Let's move on to the discussion. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, will be able to discuss this bill within 15 minutes. You don't? Then on the board is the name of the national MPs who were enrolled in the discussion. Victor Mironenko, please, the Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. Oh, Mironenko's coming, Mironenko is, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u131	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! The laws that we are enacting, and in particular that we are considering, deserve support, but yet there is no great optimism, because in addition to preserving the laws that work for innovation, much more is required. Because you can see even in the existence of these laws, in the application of these laws we don't see any real significant results, we see only to some extent science, scientific and technological progress is trying to survive, but not to evolve. Even those so - called on the left support the blame because they support the oligarchs. It's the fault and exactly what the so-called left ones sitting alone in this room are smiling right now. What exactly are they guilty of? They are responsible for the fact that, in support of the oligarchs, I specifically called the left-wing speech, so-called, backing the oligarchs, have ensured that in fact all policies are working for the destruction of enterprises. Enterprises will not be able to innovate, because the hopes for illusory capital are already understandable, illusory, especially in our country, and we also see weak prospects for investment for domestic innovation. We've got to get the enterprises up, so that the enterprises can never, I'm asking, kick my ass. Thus, enterprises should be able to secure investment, while banks, however, require a huge interest on credit. There's no turnover. Some other means of innovation, of course, will not be available. Notice that all of this, all of this policy is being pursued with a focus. If we even compare the United States, let's say China and Ukraine. What is Ukraine's specificity? In fact, deflation is ensured, destroying the economy, and this is done to make banks profit at an enormous credit rate, well, and that makes them comfortable. They provided a cash flow of about 20 per cent of gross domestic product. As a result, there is a huge shortage of money. And this is where they provide this speculation with money, while in the United States about 80 per cent, in China about 100 per cent. In the United States, there were as many as 109 per cent of them when they came out of the crisis. That's gotta be taken into account. We must go towards the establishment of a banking public system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Mikhailo Melniczuk, from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u133	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, the question that is now on the table is the question of Ukraine's future, it's a question of the survival of our children. Consider the example of a small country in Taiwan. Without any natural fossils, this country is among the world’s first nations, just because of the development of high technology. What are we doing? This government is killing laws that are now being proposed so that they do not have reverse power. This government in the draft State Budget Act predicted that they would stop. And the content of this law. It's very small. It says that the benefits laws provided for by the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, on State Forecasting and Development of Ukrainian Economic and Social Development Programmes, on Innovative Activities, on Scientific and Scientific Technical Expertise, on the Special Regime for Investment, on Innovation of Technology Parks and on Priorities for Innovation do not have retroactive power, on actions in part and cannot be repealed or suspended in the Law on the State Budget. This comes out of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's exactly what the Constitution says. And that's why it's a bill confirming the Constitution's operation throughout Ukraine. And do we have the Constitution of Ukraine, as these elections showed? 50.34 took on Victor Yushchenko. This is not shown anywhere until now and is not recognized by this government. Of course, they are not interested in thinking about the future. According to the State Department, Ukraine’s industry’s innovative costs amount to 2.5 billion. Infants, including research and development of about 0.3 billion Money or 0.10 GDP versus 2 percent at least in the developed countries of the world. What is it? How many times are we behind? We're programming the backlog of Ukraine forever. We don't move too far from the pipes. We don't trade much because it's clear that they're already looking for the sellers to take down this company that's got a little bit of money. Therefore, this law must be adopted, even though it is not completely irreprehensible from a legal and legal standpoint. You have to make that clear. And it doesn't stop the State Budget Act, which I think we have to adopt without stopping the social laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u134	Yes, Michaela Melniczuk, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to prepare for Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u135	Mikhailo Melniczuk. faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. All - Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposed bill stipulates that the benefits provided by the six laws of Ukraine do not have a retroactive effect. Other normative documents that have also been adopted in this -- tax and customs regulations cannot have, let's say, reverse action in time and cannot be cancelled or suspended in the Ukrainian State Budget Act. This is why the faction of the Socialist Party has clearly determined that we will support this bill. Our colleague Stanislaw Mikolayovich Nikolayenko also made this point. Dear friends, taking this opportunity, Vladimir Mikhailovich, would like to draw the attention of all those responsible for the safety of Ukrainian citizens, to draw attention to recent events in the Montenegrin region, to draw the attention of the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, to draw the Security Service's attention to such events that have taken place, and perhaps to some extent to assist the law-enforcement authorities of the Montenegrin region, I have no doubt that there are professional people working there both in the Ministry of Justice and in the districts, and in the district prosecutor's office. But please look at the murder in the village of Boyanas of the Novoseltsky region of the entrepreneur, the brutal murder -- not yet discovered, the assassination of the director of the Kalinov market -- the guilt has not been found until now, the explosions under the principal's apartment, the explosions in the cabinet. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen, in a quiet area once? I spoke and warned the Ministry of Internal Affairs that a frequent change in the heads of the U.S.A. would not do any good. In a year and a half, the third head of the U.S.A. — see what happens! I have no doubt that Mr. Petrov is a professional; I have dated him, but he is having a hard time today. And one more thing to understand is that the splits that started are initiated from here, from Kiev. I have already said that there, one of the deputies sitting in the bunker, who here is a national MP who is not visible in this room, and who is in charge of both the law enforcement agencies and the courts today, is said to say when to arrest, if held in prison, the work of the courts is affected and so on. We need to get our attention. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to. Because in a quiet area, there's been a lot going on lately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u136	Yes, for this matter, I ask you to prepare appropriate addresses for the secretariat. The word has been given to Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, to prepare Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u137	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Our faction certainly supports this harmless bill. If it will benefit him, time alone will bear witness. But I want to remind you, first of all, our radio audiences, like every year at the adoption of the budget, for the administration of any high-ranking Prime Minister: whether it was Kinakh, whether it was Yushchenko or whether it was later Yanukovic -- always the government has suspended dozens of social laws. So we don't have any guarantee that this particular bill, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Stanecký Hennady Stanislavovich, is not going to be suspended and it's not going to get to that basket where these bills, which are finally called, well, never happened, not working. But let's try it. Perhaps fate in this law will be more successful than in others who have had social orientation. And I would like to draw our common attention to the fact that in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today a rainbow has settled: one part - to the right of me is the orange part of the rainbow, the flags, but about three or five deputies present, the other went to their headquarters to decide how to finally bring down this shameful regime; the other part of the hall - the central part - it's adorned with the white and blue part of the rainbow, here a little more people come together, they're doing their job: how to finally knock down those who are still trying, but they didn't realize that they're not going to get out of it. There's another part of the hall is the left ones, which are still determined by their attitude towards the second round and their political position. I just want to say one last thing. Our faction, the faction of Communists, remains with a deluded and deluded people who are deceived by these oranges and these white blues. And we turn to people over and over again and say, people, be alert, life does not end in the election of the president, there will be other elections. If you are mistaken, admit that you have the courage to admit your mistake. And if you do not find courage, the very fate and those you have given power will punish you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u138	Yes, Mikola Rudzkowski, please. Last performance. Come on, your honors, on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! When we meet with our voters, the question always comes to us as to how we can support the Ukrainian producer. And you and I have adopted, in this direction, a number of good laws on high-tech industries. The laws have been passed, but they are not working today. Who's to blame? And it is we who are guilty, dear colleagues, because we do not exercise the utmost principle. In the first place, it's usually the "majority," which, every time we vote for the budget, is stopping these laws. I'm addressing all of you. Let's take another look at what we're doing here, stopping the laws that support innovation. Ukraine has always been a high - tech state and has been the most technologically developed in the Soviet Union. We released rockets that surprised the world. We produced televisions, we produced electronics, we produced microelectronics. We're now releasing high-precision ballistics kits and so forth. We've released and we can release competing electronics in world markets. But this sector needs real support. In view of the collapse of the Soviet Union and the high - tech industry, they lost negotiable funds, as well as the oil refineries, as it were, they were unable to obtain rearms from their resources. They need to be able to use for 3-5 years, as it were, the profits they get for their re-arms. As a high-tech state in Europe, we cannot allocate 0.2 percent to innovation, to technological rearms at a time when other nations use 2 percent of gross national product. We socialists insist that we should adopt this law, support innovation and do everything to make our state, the economy competitive in the world, because competitiveness is determined by one -- the level of technology and the level of science in the state. That's exactly the law we need to uphold. I ask you to vote on this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u140	Thank you. From the government, please. The position of the government as to this bill? Vasil Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u141	The Ministry of Education and Science supports the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on State Support for Innovation. This will allow you to create favourable conditions in the field of investment, and then increase the share of scientific production, increase the level of technological development. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Center Group, I'm asking for your attention. We're going to vote now. Dear colleagues! A proposal for a profile committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on State Support for Innovation. There's a vote coming. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! The vote is coming. Please vote. [[13:21:37]] For 196 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 19, Regions - 44, Communist faction - 55, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 12, Union - 0, only Ukraine - 3, Center - 14, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 6, Deminiciative - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 4. I'll be right there. We're not there yet. I'll put them to the vote so they can make it, then they won't talk. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act on State Support for Innovation, registration number 4108. Please vote. [[13:22:38]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the pre-trial settlement of disputes, registration number 4220, is being announced for consideration. The procedure is reduced. Reporter: Ukraine’s First Deputy Justice Minister, Anatoly Pavlovich, will address the committee as co-rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Policy. Please give the floor to Anatoly Pavlovich Hare, First Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pre-trial settlement of disputes was designed to bring the provisions of effective legislation into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 9 July 2002 in the case of the constitutional appeal of a limited-liability association "Campuston Club" on the official interpretation of the provisions of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine. By this decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine acknowledged that the provision of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the mandatory extension of the jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine to all legal relations in Ukraine means that it is necessary to understand this provision so that the right of a person to appeal to a court for a solution to a dispute cannot be restricted by law, by other legal acts. That is, the establishment of a judicial settlement by law or agreement of a dispute over the choice of legal entities is not a limited jurisdiction of the courts and the right to judicial protection. Simply put, the positions in the legislation that predicted that there was a mandatory judicial institution to deal with those or other disputes, it was one that did not correspond to article 124 of the Constitution. In this sense, the bill amends the provisions of the Code of Merchandise Shipping in Ukraine, the Law on Taxation of Business Income, and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, to support this bill, which is essentially technical and juridical in nature and which will enable all legal disputes that arise in Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, even after the bill was submitted to the Supreme Council, there have been some changes in the preparation of these or other bills, in the passage of draft laws in the Supreme Council. And we've already seen that there are some other acts that should also be clarified. Therefore, we would ask that this draft law be adopted in the first reading so that appropriate clarifications can be made in preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u144	Thank you, Anatoly Pavlovich, and you. Please have a seat. The head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovic, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I don't think there's any faction here, no MP who wouldn't support this bill. Because there is a situation today that before turning to a court of citizens of Ukraine, a person without citizenship, a foreigner, or a legal person, he must go through an order to present a claim. That is, the claim will be presented, the answer will be positive or negative, and then you can go to court. But really, as Anatoly Pavlovich, who has just reported this question, is a citizen’s right to turn to. On the other hand, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court of July 9, 2002, on a specific issue, where it is clearly stated that the activity, the jurisdiction of the courts, extends to all legal relations in society. So we really need to put these bills that we're talking about here, but not just those bills. Because it needs to be amended by the Code of Economic Procedure. We're about to close it before the first reading of the project. The Civil Code, which has been in force since the first of January of this year, as well as the Railway Act, is needed. But we can do that in a second reading if you support this bill, and we're going to accept it today as a basis. He wears no political colour. That's why I think there's every chance of voting it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u146	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this bill. We're booked, I see. Let's put the name of the people's deputies on the board. The first was Victor Mironenko, a faction of Communists. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u147	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots, the bill will be supported by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, because it can help a person to solve his problems more quickly, perhaps through court. Well, we also need to bring our laws into line with the Constitution. However, I would like to draw your distinguished fellow countrymen's attention to the following: That the declaration, the adoption of laws in accordance with the Constitution, the declaration of its intention to establish a rule of law would not give rise unless the citizens of Ukraine, particularly the legislators, had clearly followed the law. Well, of course I'll just give you a few examples. And it's probably gonna be okay. Here's an example. I have repeatedly spoken about what should be called familial oligarchs, familial. And don't be afraid of that truth. Because people who vote for some candidate need to know the truth. And here I am, listing the candidates, saying that if Yanukovicha supports Surkis, Medvedchuk, Yuschenko will support the oligarchs - Poshenko, Timoshenko and others. There's a lot of them, the oligarchs who support Yushchenko. Chewing there and so on, and so on. So after that, a supporter of Yushchenko, a deputy, approached me and threatened physical violence there and so on. Here is an example of a legal path. I mean, you're not telling the truth. What a man doesn't want to know the truth about this candidate is clear. But you can't, if you're calling for democracy, the rule of law, you can't say that if you repeat Timoshenko's name, let's say, you'll get a face like that. You can't do that. The second example. Well, on 23 October, it was a terrible painting when the deputies, in violation of the law, began to impose their position on the Centre. We know this is the wrong way. But more importantly, the MPs, using the MP's inviolability, started a fight, and one of them, as I understand it, was a member of our Ukrainian faction, a human being, a law enforcement officer, who was kicked. If Red or Yushchenko had been beaten, the screams would have been out, and the United States would have entered. And here we go, the law enforcement isn't human, we can beat him. What about democracy, the establishment of a rule of law, and the working of the Fascist methods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u148	Yes, Yuri Carmazin. I ask the people's deputies to be closer to the subject of the bill in the discussion. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u149	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! My colleague's honor was just touched by the faction of Peter Dustenk. It was thanks to this man, his mind, that the people of Ukraine had returned 10 billion. This year it is included in the budget and 10 billion in the budget. Last year's money in the budget. And I want you to understand that, say and understand, and let people know. And it's not meant to be allowed to steal it from the oligarchs. I realize that there's something I want to do today that I want to take and stain and forget. And we need to learn how to judge them, not just what they say. This project, which we are looking at, guarantees the rule of the Constitution. In order to eliminate the unconstitutionality of certain laws, it is proposed. But he's really cute, and I thank you that the Ministry of Justice has admitted that, apart from the laws they've been talking about, we need to amend the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act. And by the way, there were a lot of questions about the involvement of rail transport and the over-populated political involvement of this transport ministry. I'm going to Grigory Mikolaiovich Kirpe: please don't do any more of what you're doing, letter trains, special trains from the East went to all parts of the country. It's a terrible shame. Since the war, there have not been any letter trains that have been used in these elections. Letters, hidden, provided by the Air Force, provided by the police and so forth! What are you doing? Are you going to fool the entire Ukrainian people? You're not going to make it, and you're going to be able to hold on to anything, you know what you're going to do right now? I also see the need and to amend the Civil Code of Ukraine, particularly in article 925, where it is written so far, that before the carrier is presented with a suit arising out of a shipping contract, it is mandatory to present a claim to him. It is absolutely necessary to write down "or appeal to a court" because the jurisdiction of the courts is distributed to all legal relations in a state which the Constitutional Court would be very correct, so that it does not take a decision that is wrong to calculate the terms of President Kuchma, it has made a correct decision on 9 July 2002, which is determined that the establishment of the law or contract of pre-trial settlement of the dispute is not a restriction on the jurisdiction of the courts. And let's face it, it's too late. Two years have passed, two years since the decision of the Constitutional Court was taken, so it should be adopted in the first reading, with those additions to those laws that I have mentioned, including the Code of Procedure, which also needs to be amended, because it is also unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u150	Mikhailo Melniczuk of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The next one will be George Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u151	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Ukraine's draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on judicial settlement of the dispute was developed by the Ministry of Justice. The bill provides for the introduction of existing legislation in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on July 9, 2002. Of course, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine at its meeting today decided to support the bill. I appeal to the national MPs who are present to support this bill. The establishment by law or contract of a judicial settlement of a dispute for the determination of legal subjects is not a restriction on the jurisdiction of the courts and the right to judicial protection. On this point, I would like to say that it would be very normal if many issues were settled before a court case. Why? I get the answers from the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the regional courts, the appeals courts, the fact that the very high workload of the courts in cases is not being considered because, in principle, we're going to talk, a lot of pressure on the courts. And for that matter, I'd like us to imagine for once. The person who is in prison is waiting for his case to be resolved, and his hands are not reaching out in court. And it takes more than one day, not two, not a month, and over the years, people sit, we talk, behind bars, and maybe they're innocent. This must be decided by the court. That is why we, parliamentarians, have to look again at these cases that are before the courts, and perhaps somehow influence the courts in order for them to deal with them in a timely manner, because this is the fate of our citizens of Ukraine. You can't say that the person who is in prison today. She's guilty, because without a court order, we can't say that. And the courts need to help not only to criticize our courts but to help financially support them by the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u152	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The question is very clear, it is explained, and I will point out immediately that our faction -- the faction of Communists -- supports this bill in the first reading, but I would like to take this bill into account if it were adopted to consider with you whether there would be a fair settlement of disputes between the oranges and the blue and whites, whether they would immediately go to court or the Supreme or the Constitutional, it would be five weeks, or maybe five months to count the ballots to exactly one. We have a pattern of world democracy when, in previous elections in the United States, this kind of circus has been demonstrated to us by world democracy right now. It goes unsettling, just until the same result is demonstrated. And we've already learned that, and we've taken it as a model. Ukraine will lose and our people will lose under such a bandit bourgeois democracy. So I would like to address our deluded and humiliated people over and over again. You are deceived and humiliated and orange and blue and yellow. Make sense, people are good, at last! Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. May I have your attention, please? Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pre-trial dispute settlement. [[Registration number 4220]] Please vote. [[13:40:06]] For 284 Decision taken. The factions, please. I read for it. Our Ukraine -75, Ukraine -52, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPI - 18, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 0, only Ukraine - 11, Center - 14, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 8, Deminiciative - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 10. A draft Law amending article 281 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on the Conservation of Reproductive Health is under consideration. Reporter of Health Minister Podejev Andry Volodymyrovich, please. The focal point will be the chairman of the committee's committee on the legal policy of Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich. Is there a Victor Lavrentiovich? Thank you, Victor Lavrentyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u155	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code has been developed by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in view of the need to bring the legal and regulatory framework in the field of reproductive health and the European Union's norms and standards and the global health organization into line with the main priorities of the State's demographic policy on the preservation of reproductive health and the promotion of birth. The amendment is envisaged in part five, sixth and seventh of article 281 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The amendment to part five of article 281 of the Civil Code provides that the sterilization of Ukrainian citizens should take place only at the request of a full - grown individual, including by voluntary consent of a person with medical testimony. The sterilization of an invalid must be carried out according to the guardian’s agreement with the requirements established by legislation on the basis of recognition of the invalid status, which makes it unnecessary to establish social statements in this case. With regard to part six and the changes made to part six of article 281 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on the interruption of late pregnancy by medical and social indicators, the need to bring the legal framework to the norms and standards of the European Union and the World Health Organization. However, the specified document contains a definition of the perinatal period as one that begins from the 22 full week of the foetus and ends after seven full days of birth. This is in line with the World Health Organization’s criteria for the viability of the fetus and the perinatal period. In all the developed countries of the world, abortion by evidence is permitted by valid legislation only up to 22 weeks of pregnancy, and other cases are criminalized by the fact that a child is considered viable for medical reasons. There is a direct violation of the child’s right to life. In Ukraine, the introduction of the World Health Organization’s criteria for the viability of the fetus and the perinatal period has been complicated, and today 28 weeks of the fetus’s inner life has been determined by valid legislation. This is the legal basis for the interruption of late pregnancy when appropriate indications are available for the specified period, which means the elimination of potentially viable fetuses. The introduction of the proposed standard of fetal viability will create regulatory, organizational grounds for the development and implementation of a system of medical care for newborns with very low body mass at birth and the reduction of late pregnancy. Modern medical technologies now allow the lives of most such children to be preserved. The need to make changes to part seven of article 281 of the Ukrainian Civil Code is due to the inadequacy of terms for reproductive technologies adopted in global medical practice. All methods used in the treatment of female and male femininity with the use of modern technology are used to refer to the combined name “Liquial programs of domestic reproductive technology. ” The adoption of the proposed legislative act does not require additional financial allocations, but will require the development and amendment of legislation, the Ukrainian Family Code, the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health protection, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the order of artificial abortion, the order of the Ministry of Health, the adoption of the draft Act amending Ukraine's Civil Code will allow the legal and regulatory framework for reproductive health to be regulated and placed under the responsibility of the European Union legislation and the requirements of the World Health Organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u156	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Victor Lavrentiovich Musijaci.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered this bill. And I want to emphasize only the basic positions that matter to us when decisions are made. First. This bill proposes to amend article 281 of the Civil Code on such extremely important provisions. They apply to Ukrainian demographic policy standards in accordance with the requirements of the World Health Organization. This is about sterilization of people, incapacitated persons, incapacitated by the Civil Code, perhaps by the guardian's consent and social indicators. What is a social indicator we already know. In the 1930s, remember, there were social indicators that led to that in some countries, when people were being destroyed because they were oligophres and so on, and so on, medical indicators were being translated into social indicators and adopted, applied these methods. We think this proposal is totally acceptable. And that's why the point now is that the social indicators need to be excluded from the Civil Code. Next. Next position. The point is that the termination of pregnancy may now be under the Civil Code of Ukraine and the applicable legislation, including 28 weeks of pregnancy. World Trade Organizations. Excuse me. The World Health Organization has come out of practice and medical practice, from many countries that after 22 weeks of fruit is effective, fruit is viable, and, in fact, its destruction is essentially a living child. And then it's just the development of different organs, and at this point, all of the organs of this child's body are actually viable. So, of course, interrupting pregnancy after 22 weeks is actually already an attack on the life of a viable fetus. We think we should also agree that we should limit the term to 22 weeks. And the last. This is only in line with the requirements of the World Health Organization for Terminology. In the Civil Code, part seven speaks of the artificial infertility and transfer of the embryo into the woman’s body. And that's the general way to think about it. The use of medical programs, auxiliary and reproductive technologies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Shall we vote? Excuse me, please. You can wave the cloud, but you're not written down. Yes. Okay. Then who insists? Onopenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u159	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'll be brief. I won't be long. The point is that the committee actually considered the bill and supported it in the first reading. What's important is that we can interrupt the pregnancy, let's say, only on medical grounds, and the social indicators, let's say, three children, four of them, as is today, or maybe a woman became pregnant as a result of rape, they won't count, because in this time proposed by the bill of 5.5 months, we can stop pregnancy. I think the medics understand us better in this matter, and Andrew Volodymyrovich here reported it. We have the idea of a faction that maybe 5.5 months is too much time, because it's actually about killing a child. We think we need to think about it, and here, first of all, we need experts to give us the answer. Maybe you have to cut it down by two, three times the term "interruption of pregnancy," because there's essentially a murder going on. This is a mass killing of children, for it is known that the Lord God gives life to man, and he must take it away. So that's just the kind of precaution on the part of our faction about this bill. But it can be corrected in a second reading. The committee asks you all to support it in the first reading and to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u160	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin wants to express his opinion. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Mironenko? Please, Mironenko. Then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u161	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, distinguished people's deputies! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support Bill 6024 because it is indeed based on the interests of humanity. But let us draw attention to the other side of humanity, which unfortunately often remains in the shadows, and we legislators must take this into account. From the very beginning, money has been a challenge in many processes. And families, especially young families, don't have money. What's more, I have, in my technique where I teach, a lot of girls can't find a job and settle down, they can't get a job book, they can't get a job book, and sometimes they're going abroad and so on, and when a baby's born, there's no money, there's no money for anything. But money is needed from the start. I would like to draw the attention of both legislators and Governments, and the President of Ukraine, not to be confined to small-scale supplies. Especially before the elections, as if it were a sign of care, family creation, that we have good demographics, that our country develops and so on, and that we actually deal with family issues daily, the problem of decent pay, housing, well, and, of course, employment. That's probably the last of the biggest pains for young girls right now. Therefore, I would ask the Government to think, think and strengthen this focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u162	Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u163	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read this bill carefully, you will realize that with regard to the future, Victor Yushchenko offered to provide assistance at the birth of the child, 8,432 bracelets, and the issue of abortion and everything else. This is a serious problem, this is a serious approach. Although I understand that by passing this bill, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic did not want people to be born "goats," and that is understandable. But as far as the bill is concerned, the details. So I think Victor Musiak has analyzed it very well, and I support his adoption, because absolutely in all the developed countries of the world, which will soon become Ukraine, the interruption of pregnancy according to the testimony is only allowed up to 22 weeks of pregnancy, not until 28, as now. I think so. That when we adopt this law, society will also have the idea that we may have to go to a total ban on abortion, because all the conditions for raising birth in the country will be created. Today, all over the world, the term "artificial fertilization" has been abandoned. All the techniques used here are combined with the term "assistant reproductive technologies". And so it's very true that changes are being made to part seven, paragraph two, part five, to paragraph seven, where it will now sound like that: adult women or men have the right, according to medical evidence, to carry out medical programs for them, to assist reproductive technologies according to the order and conditions established by legislation." [[There was a man adding here because there was only a woman.]] I feel that such additions are certainly good, as have been done by the Ministry of Health. They deserve support. And I think that with their acceptance and Victor Yushchenk's victory in the election, it was clear to everyone that "goats" would not be born.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u164	On the basis of the vote, please, the microphone of Polishchuk Mikola Efraemovich. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u165	Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. I would like to say that, really, the need for adoption of these amendments to the Civil Code has come to light, because today, in Ukraine, new technologies are also being developed, which will help because we can have children at a younger age, that is, after 22 weeks, they'll, well, we'll talk about it, ensure their vitality and make them, really, children. And it's going to win a few places. The first position wins is that it's already a living organism. The position of a friend wins that the family will have the help of 8,000,432 bracelets of what Victor Yushchenko declared in his program. I would also like to highlight this issue regarding sterilization of an ineffective person. This is a very important question because we know very often that we are sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u166	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion on making changes to article 281 of the Ukrainian Civil Code has been completed. [[on reproductive health]] In the course of the debate, and the committee recommends, and I think we have good reason to vote in favour of this bill. Please vote. [[13:57:59]] For 263 Copy that. Dear colleagues, here's the bill, I think we can accept it as a law as a whole. No objections? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending article 281 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on reproductive health]] Bill number 4533. Please vote. [[13:58:39]] For 281 The bill was passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes. We'll still be able to consider one draft law. On the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Work. Bills on number 6024 and 6026. He will report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The proposed bill envisages the introduction of amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production. The point is that this law, the basic law, was passed first among the laws that defined the basics of social insurance in Ukraine. Thus, the practice of applying this law has given rise to preparing the necessary changes, first of all, in order to improve the social protection of victims in production. It's different. To improve prevention work. And so that the rules of the law can be reconciled. For example, the law on mandatory government pension insurance, with the standards laid down in this bill. It is also envisaged that instead of calculating insurance payments depending on the size of the minimum wage, it will be possible to allocate payments depending on the social standard such as the minimum wage. It is also predicted that, for example, a temporary loss of employment that is now being made by the Foundation on the sixth day, and the first five days are being paid by the employer, the fund is expected to have been paid from the first day. Why is this standard necessary? Because a person, and this is part of our work legislation, can work not only on one job but on several jobs. And so if the loss of productivity was caused by the production, where the person was working for the compatibility, it was reducing the insurance payments that he was getting. And that's why this rule is supposed to be introduced. There were observations. With regard to this bill, the Legal Authority noted that the proposed change in the removal of the moral damage fund was proposed. This is due to the fact that, yes, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, but it was based on the law that is in force today. In addition, you know that with the adoption of the Civil Code, we are provided for moral damage to the guilty person. I mean, he can't compensate for the fund that all employers of Ukraine are paying for, and so let's say, yes, the fault of one is covered. One is covered at the expense of the other. Moreover, the Civil Code provides for larger amounts of compensation than those proposed by the bill. When the government worked on the law, social partners, trade unions, employers who supported the changes to the law were consulted. And I'm asking that bill, which is, of the Ukrainian national deputy Mr. Oneschuk, there are valid, right positive things that are proposed to be taken into account during the second reading. Thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u168	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, we're going to vote now. National MP Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please, Bill 6026. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! Your opinion is on a bill to amend the same law. It's not an alternative to government, it's just about making changes that aren't covered by government proposals. These are the positions that apply. These changes apply to three things. First. The bill seeks to eliminate the contradictions that have arisen today in connection with the adoption of the Employers’ Organizations Act, and it later adopted the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance, and one of the parties involved in the formation of the governing bodies, such as the supervisory boards and the governing boards of these funds, the employers’ organizations. That's the first one. The second shift involves improving the effectiveness of government supervision in the insurance sector. In particular, the bill suggests that the only government authority, such as the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, should deal with the issue of labour security. And the third is true. a cluster of issues relating to the improvement and effectiveness of the activities of the relevant bodies of the Fund itself. In particular, it is about changing the order of approval and making decisions with such a fund. Especially on the last one, I'd like to stop in more detail. Today’s decision - making process by fund governments and supervisory councils is based on the fact that it is usually approved by most members of the government. But the feature of the formation of the governing bodies of foundations and not just that, but of all foundations, is that they are formed on an equal footing by three subjects: the state, the unions, and the employers. Today, decisions are made by a simple majority. This means that one of these sides can just be ignored, whether it's about the unions, or whether it's about the employers. Accordingly, the bill provides for decisions to be taken only in this way, and it is considered to be accepted if it has been voted for by the majority of each party represented in the fund or in the supervisory board of the fund. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce the number and eliminate the institution of duplicates. By the way, the duplicate institution has already been cut off from all other funds that are built on these same principles. The conclusion of the Chief Executive is positive. With regard to the position of the government, the government as a whole supported the bill. The government disagrees with the change in the system of authorities responsible for the State’s supervision of work. And I think here we can find an appropriate compromise with the government, and this is not a fundamental issue. In this regard, I ask for the first reading of the bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u170	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Please, we have a report from Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u171	The honourable national deputies, the Committee on Social Policy and Work will support the government bill and that is why, Adam Ivanovich. Not because we support it that way, but because on the three sides of the Social Insurance Fund, only the government has the right to legislative initiative and passed the bill in order. But let's remind you that out of all four funds, the Fund from accidents and occupational diseases in production is the most painful and deplorable fund. In view of the fact that there were no adjustments by the Committee and the Supreme Council to its law, its use. Each year, the fund was self - incriminatingly taken away by the government, depriving all persons with disabilities of compensation, regressive payments, and so forth. So in this bill, which improves the law, the main thing is to regulate the assignment of monthly insurance payments, not the delay of year after year, so that the money can then be removed from the fund. [[I pay attention every month.]] Then the state registration of legal and regulatory documents relating to the rights and obligations of insurers and insured persons. And then instead of calculating insurance payments depending on the size of the minimum wage, it's suggested to apply a social standard, a subsistence minimum, a clear thing is better than a minimum. It is anticipated that a two-year term will be set for the Head of the Supervisory Board. The standard of admin consent is set. The issue of the foundation with one special mandate, which today is the Ministry of Labour. I'd like to take a look at my colleague Onichuk's report. The point is that one of his proposals is to reduce the number of sides to manage this fund. There were 15, proposed by five. We think it's a narrowing down of the foundation's self-reliance. And in the end, it can happen that the fund will go through the State Budget into government, let's say, government. It can't be because the nature of these funds is solid. The laws passed under these three funds are in force today. And in my opinion and in the view of our committee, I don't think it's worth looking at the principles of government. So we're proposing to adopt a bill that's passed by the government. And this is given to the three parties and the Supreme Council Committee. We'll support it as a basis. And the second bill will not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u172	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Karmazin insists. Let's hear it. And Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u173	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, our constituents! I'll tell you this, first, after the government bill. In addition to the benefits that there are, there is a restriction on insurance payments when transferred to an easier, less-paid job, article 28 compared to article 31. Calculation of the invalidity pension or monthly insurance and the average wage when the insured person undergoes vocational training I can't vote for the government bill. That's the first one. The other one. Bill 6026, by the way, the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are to be submitted to the drafting of a government bill. I want these conclusions to be proved. I am surprised that they have not been proved here from the rostrum to the national deputies, who certainly have not been able to read in connection with the electoral inquiries. With regard to Bill 6026, which was reported by the People’s Deputy Oneichuk. I think that Mikoli Vasilovich should thank you for drafting this bill and the law can be passed, I agree with the science department. And, honourable national MPs, our constituencies! Mass falsifications during the selections are evidenced by the amount of 18,000 in Crimea. voted more than the ballots were issued. Donetsk is 20,000. More than the ballots were issued there. And there's 38 grand in Israel. That's more than it had to be. Thank God, even though the Israelites returned $38,000. And I took the C.V.C.C. to get $11,000. How does everything go on? This is before our Central Election Commission works today, and how others work today, where the ballots come from. We have data that they were stored at the National Bank and are now hiding in the National Bank of Ukraine's vaults, which is being protected by Sergey Tihypco. So, honourable national MPs, I would ask you to clearly take under the control of the monitoring commission what's going on in the state, I've already said that Victor Yushchenko won the first round, nothing will prevent you from celebrating the victory today, only to secure it, the victory of the people. It's not Yushchenka, it's the people! I think Yushchenko sees for herself how hard it will be to fix the economy now. But if we accept this government project, it's going to be even worse, it's going to be even harder to fix this situation. That's why I'm against the adoption of this government bill, but although Mr. Oneschuk of the majority faction, I support his project and will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u174	Please, People's Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u175	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. The faction has determined that we will support the government bill, which is why my colleague, Vernigor Leonid Mihajlovich, reported both the opinion of the committee and the position of the faction. After all, we must, dear friends, move the field of our contradiction, not in the House of Parliament, but somewhere in the Towers, argue what and how. In fact, we need to adopt laws that are indispensable to our society, the people of Ukraine, if we are to take care of it. The project provides for the regulation of Ukrainian legislation on compulsory state social insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases that have caused loss of employment. And that's why I think we're going to support it. But I have Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, you have him. You'll see that whoever's in the room will vote, support the government's bill. That's how you'll be supported as a minister. But you won't be supported by two factions, one of which is your family, of which you are a member, and the other is no less a relative. So I'd like to go to those deputies, there's some kind of blockage, today the regions are working, and why the two factions aren't working, there's no motivation. And here I just got a call from the Chernobyl area, and they're asking, what are the motivations that don't work for two factions that don't vote in the hall, do these MPs get paid? I assured them that they were all paid, not only by those who were not working today, but also by those who had not appeared in the hall in general for years and were merely carrying the deputy’s mandate and covering up for it, receiving a salary, respected Ukrainians. Only you don't get the salary, only you, the distinguished pensioners, the Ukrainian people, give the taxes before the elections, but you are young enough to understand who gives the taxes and who works for the future and our people, the people of Ukraine and the whole of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. And with a motive, please use the cloud microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u177	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Ladies and gentlemen, our faction will not vote in favour of a government project, because there are a number of points that will make working conditions worse. We're going to support the National Deputy Oneichuk's project, although after the first reading to the second, we still have to work very seriously. And we can't let this fund be run by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-02-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. Please prepare for the vote. It is on the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public social insurance against industrial accidents and occupational diseases that have caused loss of employment". Registration number 6024. Please vote. [[14:16:17]] For 185 Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 3, "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communists - 58, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, "The People's Agrarian Party" - 20, Socialists - 19, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The Union" - 0, "The One Ukraine" - 4, "The Centre" - 13, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The Postfraction" - 2. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that have Caused Loss of Work. Registration number 6026. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:17:20]] Z-87 Dear colleagues, we've been with you, if you like, your type of rating vote. You can see that ratings show that the first bill. Let's be abstract from what's governmental. It's not about government, it's about people's lives and occupational diseases and so on. So when we do the ratings, let's go with you to the first draft. I'm once again voting for acceptance as a basis for the first reading. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Work. Registration number 6024. Please vote. [[14:18:26]] For-200 Then perhaps the first time again? Let's do it again first. Yes, please vote for this bill to be re-readed. The vote is friendly! [[14:18:58]] For 201 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 11, Ukraine - 59, Communists - 57, Social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, Union - 0, Ukraine - 8, Center - 5, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, Deminiciates - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 4. I suggest, my fellow Members, that after a break I return to this question, because it is not as simple as we treat it lightly. A break of 16 hours is announced. And for the stenographer, that one. That we considered it a law, because we had it for a year, it was a date that it took effect on January 1, 2004. So it's suggested that since January 1, 2005, as much as this. You understand, purely technical. Thank you.
