ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:18]] The 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on 15 December. 14 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, two laws were passed, three bills were adopted in the first reading, three bills were rejected, and three bills were transposed. Ladies and gentlemen, may I inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council for the participation of the economic bloc of the government in charge of acting as Prime Minister Mikola Azarov. We agreed yesterday in such a way that we need to work out another draft budget and bring it up for review on Tuesday. In this regard, we have agreed that on Tuesday, the results of the budget project will be determined as to the relevance of plenary work in the last week of December-month. So today we don't need to consider a draft regulation amending the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. When we have an item for the plenary meeting, then we will work properly. And now there's a proposal, my dear fellows, that we listen to the proposals of the Committee on Rules, MPs, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council on the calendar of the next session so that we can plan our further work. And then we're going to look at those draft documents that we have on the schedule for the meeting. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Write down three minutes, please, to exchange your thoughts on how to organize our work. Please sign in for three minutes. Les Tanjuk, please, then Vasil Ivanovich Potapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u3	Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Yesterday's meeting with the government of the heads of MPs and factions has shown that the budget situation is extremely difficult, and not only is it a matter of time, but the issue is that Ukrainian pensioners have to be provided with resources for the guaranteed payment of higher pensions. This problem is not addressed by the government's draft budget. In this context, we're talking to colleagues: we're not settling the budget issue next week, and the faction "Our Ukraine" insists that next week, out of the 27th, we do the work of the Supreme Council on a working basis, so that next week we work in session mode. Otherwise, we will not agree on the positions necessary to start the budget funding from the beginning of the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u5	Potapov Vasil Ivanovich, please microphone. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, indeed, the issue of the budget is perhaps more important today than many others. I don't think so. And our faction colleagues, we talked about this today, that we are organizing and able to talk normally on the 27th to the 28th. It's probably going to be a whole different conversation. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, if possible, let us consult on the Conciliation Council, and all the problems that we are able to resolve before the first number with a budget that we can resolve for resolution should be considered and resolved on the following working week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u7	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u8	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word Masenko Alexandro Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u9	Alexander Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u10	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we support the position that a very important issue is the approval of the budget next year. And if he's prepared, then we'll consider our future work. But I would like to emphasize that the equally important question is the election, or the vote again on December 26. And we know that the Law on the Characteristics of the Law on the Election of the President is imperfect. We did not agree at the committee meeting yesterday, as there is also a contradiction. So I ask that my bill, 6416, be placed in the agenda and voted on. Because this question cannot be postponed earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, on this point, I would ask the committee then to consider. Well, one minute! Well, one minute! Well, let's get this over with! Please, time is up! Give me a minute. Let the committee take a look. If he doesn't make a decision, then we'll hold a consensus board, we'll consider all the bills, and we'll figure out how to proceed. No, dear colleagues, we've already signed up, three minutes, time's up. Dear colleagues! Well, we took three minutes off the procedure. What else do you want from me? [[The voice from the hall. DO NOT HEAR]] Well, please clarify your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u12	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I emphasize again. These questions were raised at committee meetings yesterday. There is no committee management, I personally held the meeting. I'm telling you once again that a decision is not made and agreement on a committee is impossible to reach, so I'm thinking and I'm proposing that we support these veterans, the pensioners, who aren't supposed to come to the polls to make any changes to the adopted law. And in the committee, we're not going to get that kind of consent. The question was already raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u13	That's how I do it. Dear colleagues, we have consulted here with Adam Ivanovich, we offer. Adam Ivanovich will convene a committee during the break at 2 p.m. Let the committee be fully stocked again. Under the direction of Adam Ivanovich. Once the decision is made to inform, we will continue to determine how to act. Well, I think it's a normal offer. Normally, I think it's an offer. As far as I'm concerned. Dear colleagues, we've signed up, we've already spoken, let's keep working. We agreed that we would consider draft regulations for amending the calendar plan for the 6th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call we would consider on Tuesday, when we see how we would act on the 2005 budget and there is agreement on the authors of the project. If there's no objection. Dear colleagues, that's all. Yeah. Dear National Deputies! If there is no objection, let's now consider the calendar of the next session. Valentin Grigorovich, please. We've already spoken, it's time, dear fellows. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prior to the meeting of the Committee on 17 November this year, a draft calendar plan for the next seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was discussed. The project is designed in accordance with the requirements of article 2.1.3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The specified draft calendar plan was then sent to MPs and groups to make suggestions, comments, and so forth, and after their generalization, discussed at a committee meeting. Proposals, additions, changes and comments to the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council from MPs and groups were virtually not available. But I have to say, with the exception of one proposal, regarding the fact that the MP's faction "Hard Ukraine" offered to hold a plenary week from June 27th to July 1st, and to work on committees, factions and groups this week from July 4th to 8th. This proposal, according to the Committee, cannot be taken into account as contrary to the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council, since, in accordance with article 2.1.3 of the Rules, the first and third weeks of the session period are allocated to plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second for the work of its committees, and the fourth for the work of deputies in the constituencies. The draft, respected colleagues, drafted in accordance with the requirements of article 2.1.3 of the Rules, is proposed, inter alia, to start plenary sessions of the seventh session of the Supreme Council in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine on February 1, 2005, the first Tuesday of February, and to complete its work on July 15, the following year. During this time, there are 12 weeks of plenary work — almost 40 days, 7 weeks — 36 days, committees and factions, and 5 weeks of 24 days — for the work of national deputies in the constituencies, and six days of government. The Committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve or adopt a more faithful decision on the approval of the calendar plan, the holding of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u15	Yes, thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Questions for three minutes, please write down if there are respectable colleagues. So on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Valentin Grigorovich, I have this question, we have all the time, and it's not the first year that there's been a question about changing the calendar, which is for May, there are holidays and other days that need to be moved. You've been looking at this issue, because maybe the calendar plan will be changed, and you'll take that into account in the consideration and approval of the decision now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u17	Of course, the committee took into account that the first of May was a national holiday and was on Easter and also took into account the celebration of May 2 and May 9 is the anniversary of the victory in the Great Homeland War, so the committee is proposed, as required by the regulation of the last week of April of the month as a job in the constituency constituencies of the national MPs. 4-6 May -- it's three days of plenary meetings and next week, starting from 9 May to 14 including -- it's going to be work on committees and factions. The next plenary week after that, between May 17 and 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u18	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u19	Fucking Communist faction. Valentin Grigorovich, we support the decision to hold the session, but I have a question: this is the question that was removed from the consideration of the draft decision to change the calendar plan for the 6th session, I mean the last week of this month. Has this matter been considered on your committee, and what decision has been made?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, yes, yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Regulatory Affairs and MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, a draft decree on this, introduced by the People’s Chamber of Pinzenik, was not supported by a draft ruling in relation to x because it did not meet the requirements, first of all, article 2.1.3. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u21	Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party I don't think we've heard anything out of the ordinary. All that is proposed for the calendar plan is within the Constitution and our Rules, so I propose to approve and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We now have to approve the calendar plan for the 7th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 4 convocations, i.e. to execute the constitutional prescription, as we will implement. May I have your attention, please? The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a whole on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. Registration number 6426. Please vote. [[10:23:11]] For 376 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the same time, let us write down the commission of the Committee of Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka so that next week we can set out the order for us to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the grounds, please, the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We've just confirmed the order of the day of the next session. But we do have a question about how the Supreme Council will work in the next two weeks. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we have next week is the last week before the presidential election. It's actually going to be an empty hall. There's an offer that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin made to make changes. So next week is work in the districts, next week, from 28 to 30 jobs in the sessional mode. That is how we will be able to secure the adoption of the budget in a calm manner, and, including normally, effectively ensure the work of the Supreme Council. And one more question. Honorable colleagues regarding the law that Communist colleagues spoke of. In fact, an attempt is being made to protect those who cannot vote, to extend the audit of the batch vote that took place in the hall. I ask you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I very much ask Mr. Martinyuk not to do these things. And when the committee can't make a decision, there's a reason. The committee should work in accordance with the working arrangements of our Committees, which are governed by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, what's the point? What's the line? Your last name wasn't on it. Let's just calm down. It wasn't your last name. Please calm down. A draft decision on Tihyp’s release from office as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 6384, as well as the draft Appointment Order. Well, let's talk about layoffs first. Please, Sergey Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, under article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee on Finance and Banking considered the submission by the President of Ukraine of Tigipek Sergey Leonidovich of his post as Head of the National Bank in connection with his resignation application. The committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and approve the submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u27	Question, if there is. I see there is. Sign up, three minutes, please. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs, please point out. Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction, then Peter Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u29	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u30	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter and respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, we don't mind a man making a claim, we need to be released. But we'd like to hear the information, because I don't know if it's a legend, or if it's true that our stock has fallen dramatically, our stability fund. It is necessary for Tihypco to come and tell us what happened in five months of his absence when he was in charge of the headquarters of one of the candidates. I feel that we must have this information. And the gold stocks we have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich, we have noted on the committee this particular point that you have just mentioned. Under the Banking and Banking Act, as well as the National Bank Act, the National Bank is required to inform once a year. Such information will be provided in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u32	Paul Sulkovski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u33	May I have the floor to the deputy of Konovaluku?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u34	Valerius Ilych Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, it happens in such a way that such an important institution as the National Bank, when the previous leader is released, I think that there are some questions in the people's deputies: how the National Bank worked during this time, why the liberation took place at a time when, in fact, a complex situation with the banking system was involved. And I think, haven't I considered the possibility of a committee to ask some explanations and answers to questions from the national deputies of the former head of the National Bank?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u36	Dear Valery Ilic, we have not raised or considered such a question. If that's the case, I think we can invite Sergei Leonidovich Tihypka to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u37	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u38	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u39	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u40	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear reporter! The Communist faction today is excited and concerned about what is actually happening in the banking system. And I'd like you to answer today's question about vocational training and the level of preparation, but you'd like to make a point of view about the possibility of putting order in the financial banking system. That's the first one. And second of all, I would like to state that the faction of Communists insists on an urgent review of the draft law that will restore the constitutional rights of pensioners, the elderly, regarding participation in the December 26 elections. "Our Ukraine" has introduced a bill that violates constitutional rights. A human rights official has confirmed all of this. That's why we insist that we urgently consider this bill, and resolve the issue of allowing people to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u41	Dear Petr Nikolaevich, the Council of the National Bank is in a position to work. It's working. First. The board is functional and functioning. The market situation is by no means critical. We can not talk about the crisis - we can talk about some of the problems associated with the political upheaval. I think that's the subject of a separate discussion. But I understand your emotion. And we, I think, will decide on the committee and prepare written information on the activities of the National Bank during this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u42	Question is, time is up. Question is, time is up. For reasons, please vote, three minutes. Please sign up. Three minutes in favor of the vote on draft Decree 6384. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhail Kosov, please. Then Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u43	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Of course, I am one of those who today can catch the joy of the event that is taking place and which you report to us from this rostrum. You know how much conflict has taken place to replace the head of the National Bank from his post, Mr. Vladimir Stelmak. And what he comes back to is, of course, good. This is the only thing that comes back when the banking system is very balanced. But speaking on the grounds of the vote, I think you're a high-class professional like yourself, Mr. Stelma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u44	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u45	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Sergei Vasilovich, I didn't have any emotion, and I wanted to work with you today to increase our responsibility in the banking system as a whole for developing the real economy, because today, let's say there are political moments, disputes, today that have led to the outflow of capital from banks. Commercial banks have stopped lending to the real economy, and all of this makes it very difficult for us to work in the state. So, Sergey Vasilovich, reverend, here's not the emotion, here today we have to do everything we can to make the banking system work to develop the economy, to make industrial capital increase. Not speculative, not paper growing in the wallets of certain, let's say, managers, but that we have jobs, that we have wages and that sort of thing. And that's what I called you to now, not emotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u46	Plutinski Volodymyr Antonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Please pass the word to the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u48	Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You know how you liberated the head of the National Bank of Stelma, when the authority and the national currency and the banking system were high. You took it down, and you know, you put the ballots on the ballot. There were 200 ballots, not 226. And you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know how, he's the head of the reckoning commission here, as Tihypak has been appointed, and now we're releasing him again in the same way, without a report or real information on the situation at the National Bank. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, who is in charge of the National Bank, let him report on the situation in the banking system right now so that we know what state the National Bank is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I would like to point out that today we are considering a draft decision on the dismissal of Tihyp from the position of head of the National Bank in accordance with his statement and the submission of the President of Ukraine. If we have a report, then we will be determined. Now let's go according to the Rules. And there is no indication that the release of the head of the National Bank requires a preliminary report. So, please note, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Sergey Tihypco from office of head of the National Bank of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6384]] Please vote. [[10:35:19]] For 413 That's the record we have so far, isn't it? Decision taken. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Vladimir Stelmak as head of the National Bank of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 6399]] Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Vasilovich Burjak
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! According to part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee on Finance and Banking considered the appointment of President of Ukraine as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to consider and approve the nomination of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! Maybe we should invite Vladimir Stelmacha to the rostrum and ask him a question if we have one. Is there no objection? Please, Vladimir Semenovich. Sign up for questions. Let's take all the time we need. Ten minutes enough? Thank you. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u53	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Semenovich! It's been about a year since this thing happened, and I'd say a dramatic event right here in this rostrum, where you're standing. Tell me, please, how has this year been for you personally, with what moods do you return to your perfectly legitimate place? And in general, as you take these events that are happening in our country, even though I know you're a man out of politics and that's the right thing to do, and this is the only position that should be for the state's main banker, but right after the collapse, the Attorney General comes back to his place, and after the crash, you're almost back.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u54	Please, Vladimir Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u55	Thank you for me, I can certainly tell you people's deputies that these two years have both professionally and lifely assured me that only a truly stable national currency is the basis for the development of productive forces. And I mean this in the broadest sense, both in the field of production and in the social sphere. A national monetary unit should be the stimulus that calls for high - productivity work. And that's why, of course, and that's right, the Constitution provided that the national bank should be a major function of ensuring the stability of the national currency. The stability of the national currency should not depend on political aspirations, but it should only depend on how to create a high welfare for our people, that is, because of productive power, because of increased financial savings, because of increased budgeting, income, budgeting, because of increased social aspects. It's in terms of what these two years have given me, the holidays of my non-work at the National Bank. Secondly, what I'd like to say is that in general, you can't really talk about the fact that the situation is extremely difficult or critical. Yes, indeed, there is a reduction in the granting of loans. But, you know, it's like this in our farm years, and at the end, starting in October, there's a little bit of a decline in the volume of credit and so on. Because it ensures repayment of loans. But this political situation, it certainly affected, brought some negative and dissonance to the work of banks, when the population, afraid of, including, can be said, those statements that went there on federalism. I was a witness when people claimed that we had lost our savings at the beginning of 90 years, and if it did, maybe it would. So this is a psychological moment. I think he's in a very short time, but that's political stability going on. And in a short time, it's going to be this psychological moment of depopulation. And the National Bank has already taken steps to stabilize, and there will be even more concrete and, more specifically, economic measures to stabilize this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u56	Kirilo Polishchuk, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u57	Volodymyr Semenovich, the "Regions" faction supports your election. We wish you success. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I'd like to give the floor to Czernovetsk Leonid Mikhailovich. Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u58	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u59	Dear Vladimir Semenović, respected Vladimir Mihajlović. For all of us, it's a holiday, and thanks to the "Regions" party, it's given me the opportunity to speak up, and justice prevails. I think it's written on your face, that everything in the banking system is okay, and that it will develop as well as you do, stable and well. But at the same time, I'd like to ask you, when your removal took place, you wrote a statement at the time, although I voted against it, and the whole room supported you, you're not going to give up the next time, and you're not going to give up the banking system, are you going to stand up to the end? And are you not offended?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u60	I don't have any dinner. I made a statement when I made sure that, we would say, when the National Bank was included in a political orbit, so that the situation would not get any worse, so that it would not go any further inside of your political life, because there the committees followed it and so on, so I, we will talk, filed an application to remove that tension and from people to know that if they vote, let them vote with a clear conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u61	Yuri Solomatin. Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Semenovich, I have two questions, one very simple one: what will the state of Ukraine win and lose in the event of the privatisation of Eximbank? And the second question is, can Ukraine's entry into the world economy be protected from such shocks as the famous default that it suffered, for example, Russia's economy a few years ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u63	Thank you. Well, I think putting Eximbank on privatization is saying that we're getting deeper and deeper into new farming methods, new forms. It's because of private property. What Will the State Win? I think there's one interesting win here: I would think that this package that's going to be sold, that belongs to the state, which is the basis of that capital for the bank that you already declared in the law to create, to support agriculture, to the agricultural sector. It's not about running it in this kind of expense, it's about turning it over here. And that's going to win a lot in the state sense, because it's going to be one of the support funds for the agrarian sector of small and medium-sized businesses. That's the first one. The other one. Under the conditions of the banks. foreign capital in the banking system. I wanted to say that we have defined parameters that have been evaluated as, well, maybe optimal, how can we get in, what kind of drinking weight in banking, so to speak, resources could be foreign capital. I want to tell you, it's not full at all, this one. And I think if there are disturbing moments, they're going to be right, so intensely going to be foreign banks, you're going to have to take a number of precautionary methods, so that, really, they don't have the opportunity to not be able to do what they're initially giving in clear weather umbrellas, and then when the rain starts, they're taking this umbrella away, so they're taking the capital back. Regulatory and legislative instruments should be made here that should not be allowed to do so. I think we have these possibilities, and they're going to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u64	Gennady Rudenko, faction of SDPU, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u65	Vladimir Semenovich, first of all, you are a professional, so I will vote for you for your support. The second question is more procedural. I'm sorry that our president, now active, has such a short bench of spare players. I'm sorry that young people, young managers who could come in exchange, could give hope to many of our citizens. But I repeat, you're a professional, so I vote for you. I'm sorry the President didn't pass on, maybe more young candidates. On a five - ball scale, I would like to know your point of view on the activities of your predecessor, Mr. Tihypak, your assessment of his activities. And secondly, what will happen to the team that came with Mr. Tihypk, which will be with the deputies that I am very sympathetic to, especially Mr. Yatsenuk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u66	Thank you. I want to tell you that from the point of view of corporate ethics, you've seen that I didn't go anywhere in the press with any destructive true or false statements against the actions of the National Bank. But I have to tell you that we had meetings and consultations with Sergei Leonidovich, and a lot of what we had, it was. These consultations, they were put into practice. I don't see any questions about the team. Well, of course I am now, so I can say that I own the situation at the bank optionally. When I'm able to make a substantive entry into everyone, so to speak, the elements of this bank's work, and I'm telling you frankly that. Well, you wouldn't see them like that, if there's no conjunctural nature of decisions that haven't been made, from a conjunctural point of view, well, in a broad sense, I'm speaking conjuncturally, then the team is working and everything is going to work out. The important thing is that this institution works and performs its core tasks and functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Semenovich, time is up. Please. Just a minute. Mikhailo Melniczuk. One minute, Vladimir Semenovich. Here's the last question, very short. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u68	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to pass the word to Vitalia Šibk, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u69	Thank you. I'd like to ask, the point is, Vladimir Semenovich, that now that the vote was in favour of Tihypco's resignation, I didn't vote for it, in principle, because I didn't vote in favour of his appointment, and I actually thought it was an adventure that was in the Supreme Council. And I want to tell those people who voted so hard for him, that's exactly what happened. But I have a question for you. You didn't write or write a statement, it's a very interesting question that's being discussed right now, so please tell me, after the 26th, a new president is coming and he's going to have some new claims about the bank's head. How will you act if he claims to you again and says, "No, I need another head of the National Bank." Are you going to stand up for your position as an expert? That's a question for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u70	Thank you. Of course, in all cases, the President will set forth the motives that will be, say, argued that his proposal would be, whether or not appropriate, so. But I think that the kind of president that he already has to understand that this institution should have stability, including human stability, because again, this institution is bound by all kinds of economic threads, social spheres and so on again because of its basic function is the stability of the national currency. And therefore, confidence must be in the loving head of state that in loving peripeties this institution should work independently of personal aspirations. Objectively. And of course, if I know that the unjust will, so to speak, claim, God forbid, there is a precedent with the prosecutor. Now we can know what can be defended in a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u71	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Semenovich. Dear National Deputies! Please sit down, Vladimir Semenovich. May I have your attention, please? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote. Pursuant to article 85, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 18, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: appoint Stelmah Vladimir Seminowich as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Registration number of draft regulation 6399. Please vote. [[10:51:42]] For 428 Thus, honourable national MPs, we have every reason to welcome Vladimir Seminowich Stelmah as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Let us welcome and wish you fruitful work and effective cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! At the request of two factions: the factions of our Ukraine and the faction of the Socialist Party, they demand a recess or maybe an application not to take a break so that we can continue to work. Alexander Baranowski will speak on what factions have asked for a break and we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Yesterday, December 15, the head of the interim commission of inquiry, following a so-called U.S. intervention, was more loyal to the American financing of individual political parties and blocs of opposition through various grants, and that gave rise to the current political crisis, he said. A special place in the report was the Socialist Party of Ukraine. When we get a lot of calls in this day and age, we'd like to state the following. I don't want to give an assessment of the report of the honourable head of the commission of inquiry, but on this point, I would like to say that, indeed, the famous American institutions are: the Republican and the Democrat are conducting the teaching of political democracy in Ukraine, the electoral technology of all parties without exception, but somehow the head of the commission has not announced the entire list. For example, on May 8 and 9, this year, the U.S. Grant Electoral Institute held in Žitomir: Porsa, 18 teaching the assets of various political parties. In addition to "Our Ukraine", the Socialists, the Fatherland Party, there were representatives of the "Regions", "Trubic Ukraine", the SDPU, not mentioned by the commission's head. But this was also attended by representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine, but what is particularly important is that there were three Communists -- the national deputies of Ukraine -- on this teaching. But what's important is that there was a communist head of the Temporary Commission who was studying the impact of US grants on democracy in Ukraine and what he'd forgotten to say. So, as they say in the people, "Whoever will flee, and who will remain silent." And on the principle of position, on the 5th channel yesterday, the head of the IPU claimed that the election of the President of Ukraine had been decided by them not to support any of them. The official decision is not to support any, but actually the full support of Viktor Yanukovic. Whom to support is the right of every party, but why lie to people. The proof of this is the newspaper of the Populnian region, called the Victory of November 16, 2006. The article is called "Communists for Yanukovic", and I quote, "communists of the districts of the day, discussing the first round, decided in the second round to support the action of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic" and so on. The signature in article W. Buggry is the first secretary of the Populnian Paradise Party. Natasha Vitrenco and other political parties were sincere and consistent when they declared their position, who they would support. It's the right of every party to support, but it's an honest position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u73	Yes, please, Simonenko. Please, once again, Your Honor, calm down, calm down. The thing is, it wasn't called names, but it was called positions, please, Simonenko for 1 minute. I won't give to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u74	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, you are witnessing a sharp political struggle against criminal capital for power during the election of the President. And we, the Communists, have clearly defined our position that we do not support any of the candidates and have openly stated this. Some people really want the Communists to join one another or the other, they won't. I would like to advise my former allies, who very often claimed to be not the left party, today to think about who you support, you have joined your ideological opponents, we have not interfered with you or said anything: who you are going to support, you support the largest oligarchic groups, you support and continue the policies that Americans imposed through Romania. In Ukraine, the same experiments are conducted with orange flags, posters, candidates, “Time” and other youth organizations. So I understand why these criticisms sound. We were.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, there was an exchange. I'll say it again. Mishur said last night, that's enough. Dear colleagues, I see that in fact, by their statement of factions who wanted to take a break, they want us to take a break right now. They obviously want the session to not work. I'm not commenting, I'm conducting a session, and I'm making an observation. Mishur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I would very much ask the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to send to the commission a man who will be graciously, deeply working on those documents that are already on the committee. And then Mr. Baranowski and others will have enough of this material to show how these non-state organizations are financed, who they work for. And some, let's say the pins to get out of this, let's say, a large array of information, I think it's not up to the representatives of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would have asked, and I had already asked the Head of the Supreme Council not to make the members of the commission as wedding generals, but to have them work there, and then everything would be in place. And print these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u77	Yes, dear colleagues, there is a question of making changes to the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act. [[second reading]] The committee will report to the head of the committee, Mikola Grigorovich Joulinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues and guests! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality presents for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage. I would like to remind you that the bill was drafted and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers last July to implement the Supreme Council Order on the results of the relevant Government Day. Following the approval of the government bill, the Committee worked for a year with the participation of experts from the National Cultural Heritage Service, the Ministry of Culture and Arts, the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, the Ukrainian Committee on "Ikomos", the Institute of Scientific Research and Protection Research, the Ukrainian Association for the Protection of History and Culture Monuments, other social organizations and professionals. The paper is a balanced view of all experts in working groups of prospects for further development of the protection and preservation case and the need to improve its legal and regulatory framework, such as the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act. I want to take a brief look at the major changes proposed by the bill. The first, a sophisticated apparatus of the law is complemented by terms such as the immovable object of cultural heritage, moving objects related to immovable objects of cultural heritage, the object of protection of cultural heritage, discovery, research, adaptation, repair, and alteration of cultural heritage. This makes it possible to better regulate the use of cultural heritage. Second, it is suggested that the practice of changing the memory should be abandoned, since as a result of the changes in the memory, it is actually being destroyed, losing its authenticity, and a vivid example of the distortion of the monuments may serve us all, for we are all familiar with the additions of the floors, the mansard on the monuments of architecture in Kiev. Third, the cultural heritage is complemented by a new kind of science and technology. It is no longer a secret to anyone that some achievements of human progress are unique and all today need protection as objects of the cultural heritage of a new civilization. Fourth, considerable attention is paid to the establishment of an effective and comprehensive system of cultural heritage authorities throughout Ukraine, the responsibilities of the Ministry of Culture’s State Cultural Heritage and Arts to protect all objects of cultural heritage are clearly defined. At the same time, the responsibilities of the lower - level authorities are clearly defined. Unfortunately, the financing of these, especially the State Department for Cultural Heritage, does not satisfy us, to be honest. Fifth, the role of the public and public organizations in the protection of cultural heritage, their impact on decisions taken by executive authorities and local governments, is being strengthened. Sixth, there is government property on earth that contains the monuments of archaeology. This is done to stop the destructive process of the destruction of the Kurgans and other earthlings, such as the Walls and so forth, and so forth, that, by the way, it is very scrupulously protected in the same England, Scotland, Ireland, and elsewhere. Seventh, it is determined that conservation, restoration, rehabilitation, museum design, repair, and alteration work are done on the basis of the designer’s availability, as well as the contractor’s licenses issued in the established legislation. According to the law, the license should only be in the event of restoration, but all the work on the monuments, on the conviction of the memory keepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u79	Mikola Grigorovich, I'm sorry. We're looking at a second-reading bill. You were telling all this when we took him in first. And now we're going through the repairs. So please, I am addressing the national MPs. I can see that there's an absolute majority of the amendments included. One of the national deputies who made the amendments is unaccounted for and insists. There were repairs on the bench in Bespalogo. Do you have it? Yes, please, Bespaly Boris. Call it an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u80	Well, first of all, you didn't let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u81	I'm sorry, Mikola Grigorovich, you talked a little bit about something else. I apologize to you, but we need to talk about the second reading, not the law at all. Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u82	Please, first of all, let me make time. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Indeed, the vast majority of amendments are taken into account, and that is why we support this law. This is evidence of the high quality of the work done. But some things can be corrected, and the law can be improved. I mean 42 amendments when it is said that the approval of State rules and regulations is carried out by a special authority of executive power. First of all, there's one word missing: "the central authority of the executive." Because we have a lot of executives: these are local government administrations and so on. You have to add the word "central" to it. And you can take the words "specially authorized," because they're not constitutional words and they're not mandatory. But I insist less. I insist on the word "central."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u83	Well, this is provided for, of course, by law. But I think it's nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u84	Mikola Grigorovitch, you can agree, can't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u85	You can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u86	So, please, what other amendments, Bespallian, are you making?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u87	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Thank you very much to the committee and to the chairman for his loyalties, and this makes the law clear. But I'd like to draw attention to the 105th amendment, and to one standard, it's quite strange that the performer of archaeological investigations and excavations is obliged to submit field documentation and a report on the work done to the archival department of the state scientific institution. It is not specified which state science is specifically in this case an institution. And first of all, if one agency is conducting intelligence, why should they hand it over? to which they have copyright, their scientific work to some other institution where they write the dissertations and so on, i.e., I think it's wrong. They have to pass it to a government maybe archive, to a central but transfer their work to another institution -- it's just illogical and so I think this rule needs to be removed, and then added to some normal edit in which particular institution and so on. Otherwise, there will be work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u88	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u90	I have to say that there is an adopted law on the protection of an archaeological heritage. Here Peter Petrovich was present, and he certainly also made many comments, suggestions. We used the existing law here, and we had no right to violate it. So, me. Maybe Petrovich will tell you what he thinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u91	Yes, Boris Yakovitch, are you satisfied with the answer? Don't I vote? Yeah, okay. What other amendments are out of the question? Is there a vote, a vote? Please, Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u92	I also wanted to take this opportunity to thank Boris Illich Olijnik, Peter Petrovich Toloczka, Boris Jacobich Bespaloma, to thank Vladimir Yavorowski -- to those who made their proposals, to supplement them. We've counted them as much as we can, and I think we could have adopted this law today, even in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u93	Thank you, Mikola Grigorovitch. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage. Registration number 4029. Please vote. [[11:08:13]] For 321 The law is passed. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs. [[on the provision of assistance]] [[second reading]] Please report from the Kruk Committee, Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On 7 October this year, we considered the Supreme Council and adopted the Act amending article 13 of the Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs. This applies to the provision of funeral aid, its increase. Two comments were received from the people's deputies, Zaplańsky and Hara, and they were taken into account. The Committee therefore requests the bill, if there is no objection, to adopt it as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u95	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. It's from Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u96	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block Dear colleagues! We support this bill, and I'm sure it'll pass, but it's about the funeral. But what I want to tell you is that there are new uncles in Ukraine who are buying death certificates today, and they're representatives of the government. [[Where's Gogol to all this?]] Obviously, to make lists and then vote for them, and then to declare that dead souls voted in order to break the election. This is done on the Matter in Mr. Scherban's eye. I want people to know and not give in to this provocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u97	Perhaps this does not apply specifically to the law, and in the case, you know that at least 150 bracelets are set for burial by the Cabinet of Ministers. Unfortunately, we still have pensioners, disabled people who receive 50 bracelets, and two pensions are less than 150 bracelets. To this end, this difference is, in fact, the main substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! It's all accounted for. There is an opportunity for us to vote on the adoption in general and, as a law, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs. [[Registration number 5249]] Please vote. [[11:11:20]] For 301 The law is passed. Thank you. We are considering in our second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Alexander Markovich Bandurka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Act is called on to amend certain laws of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for violations of the rules of manufacture, purchase, sale, accounting, sealing, stamps and pyrotechnics]] [[second reading]] The first law was passed by 287 votes. The second reading was attended by 15 suggestions, 9 of which are included. These proposals came from six deputies. We believe that the law can be adopted in a second reading and in general. It is due to the need to strengthen state control over the order of manufacture, use, purchase, sale, processing and storage of seals, stamps, and pyrotechnic substances, which is on the eve of the New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u100	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Dear colleagues. Carmazine's correction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u101	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, distinguished reporter. I'd like to ask you a name, because the title of the law is "to some Ukrainian legislation." It does not correspond to the substance of this law, since the law, in addition to amending the Code on Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of the Rules of Manufacture, Purchase, Sale, Calculation of Prints, Stamps and Aerotechnics, amends Article 9, the Law on the licensing of certain types of business. In terms of order of production, storage, trade and use of pyrotechnics. Activities related to the discovery and operation of gunpoints, shooting non-military targets, hunting stands and trade in special means, loaded substances, tear and irritable action, individual protection, active defence, that is, the content of the name should be changed, then questions arise in our students too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u102	Yes, please, Alexander Markovich. Honorable deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich could have agreed, but the title of the law would consist of 42 words. Well, the name of the law, more than the law itself, if you want to put it to a vote, we won't deny, well 42 words in the title of the law, I specifically counted, the logic is what Mr. Carmazin says. The only thing I'd do now is read the name of the Law. What he's suggesting is that my schedule would have run out of here by now, and you'd have driven me out of the rostrum. Thank you, let's put it to a vote. Yes, you insist on voting. Yes, I'm putting the first Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin to the vote, please. [[11:15:05]] For a hundred and No decision taken. So what other amendments are out of the question, which of the national deputies insists? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. Stepan. ‘ You're covering up Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u103	Dear People's Deputies, George Carmazin, I would ask you to be very sorry if we write to some of the legislative acts, you understand that no one will understand that legislation and we will also be with you, so we will only be able to distinguish laws by the date. It's very wrong, and you understand what it's going to be like.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u104	Date and number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u105	As for the date and number, it's not our way. Article 189 with and badge 2, I propose to exclude, because the issue of violation by officials of the rules for the opening of polygraph and stamp-grave enterprises, the acquisition and sale of polygraph equipment, reproduction devices, fonts and matrixes are already resolved in an article in the current 189. And making, importing, implementing and using self-sustaining seals and stamps is not an offence if it is done by persons who do not forge actual seals or stamps. The introduction of this article seems likely to be part of a competitive fight against self - replicating presses. For example.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u107	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, article 189 with a badge of two does not provide responsibility for any actions involving forged seals. It is called upon to ensure that the rules for making seals are complied with without the signs provided for in article 358 of the Criminal Code. Therefore, the responsibility must be for violating the established governance system, as provided for in the Code of Administrative Responsibility. I don't think it's a contradiction, and your proposal, it's actually included in the text of the law itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u108	Carmagine insists on voting. Please, I'm voting on Karmazin's third proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:17:38]] For-37 Any other suggestions, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u109	You know, I wanted to give you a great motive. Think about it. Even Bible students who want to produce seals or stamps will be held accountable. to make it look like Adam Ivanovich's library. This will be done, and you will be called to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u110	Yuri Anatolyevich, I'm going to deny you right now. It's about a free system -- where the state needs permission. And exlibris and personal seals can do as much as anyone can think of.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u111	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, what further amendment do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u112	The eighth amendment, please look. Seven counted and six counted. 8th unaccounted for, rejected. I think, of course, thank you, Alexander Markovich, that the sixth and seventh are counted, but the eighth, I think, too. The new edition of article 189 - "The violation of the rules of opening and operation of stampede-graver workshops" should be rejected. Moreover, there is no business in the list of types and classifications of enterprises provided for by the Enterprise Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u113	Yes, I'm voting on Karmazin's eighth amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:19:11]] For-30 Yes, what else is the claim of Yuri Anatoliovich rejected? Is that it? No, there's more. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Carmazine's microphone. The 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, it's very bad that, I see, the law has gone very poorly, unfortunately. Amendment 12. Article 9 of Part One, paragraph 123 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity states: “the production of special means, loaded with tear and irritable substances, individual protection, active defence, trade in special means, charged with teary and irritable substances, individual protection” to replace “the production of special means, loaded with tearful and irritable substances, individual protection, active defence and their sale”. So I'm abbreviated and I'm making a better legal and technical edition of this standard. Why she was rejected, I can't understand it, Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u115	Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u116	You're an experienced scientist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u117	Yuri Anatolyevich, I give you an answer. In the Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, production already provides for the implementation of its own production. But I don't deny that your amendment is accepted here. I propose and ask the deputies for their support. I don't deny it because it doesn't conflict with what's proposed in the law. I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u118	Alexander Markovich and his distinguished colleagues! If there's no objection, don't you agree? Let's agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u119	Let's agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u120	Okay. Is there any other amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich? Yes, please, Carmazin to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin. 13th Amendment, Adam Ivanovich. "Ending Positions," part one, this law takes effect from the day it was published, except for the addition of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of Article 195 with the 5 badge, which takes effect six months from the date of publication of this law. Delete part of the sentence, in addition to the addition of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations of Article 195-5, which takes effect six months from now, and issue an editorial on "this law takes effect from the date of its publication." This is a common practice, as we always do. I don't see why a warning like that for punishment for violations of the rules of production, storage, transportation, trade and use of pyrotechnics doesn't have to be expected for six months, but now, right before New Year's, for it to be written. The Bandur agrees with me as Colonel General.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u122	You can agree. And we thought it would take some time to adapt, to get used to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u123	Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u124	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u125	Is there no objection? No, Samuel denies it. I'm voting on Karmazin's 13th amendment, please vote. [[11:22:30.]] For-99 Not supported. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u126	Amendment 14, but you're still going to be back by 13, because, you know, we need the law to work now. You can already see that the explosions in China are going on, the convoys are going off, and you don't want to understand how important this is right now. The final position, part two, "The Cabinet of Ministers within six months of the date of entry into force of this law," is to state to the part, "The Cabinet of Ministers within a month from the date of entry into force of this law." I mean, the government has to react urgently to this law, and I must stress that this is the life of citizens. Let's think about what we're doing. I don't understand why the committee refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u127	Yuri Anatoliyovich, we were looking at the law at the beginning of the year when we had time to really adapt during the summer. I'm also worried that in New Year's, we've always had dozens of accidents and subversives, and I've set fire to pyrotechnic substances that are unlicensed. Let's put it in a month, I'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatolyovich. The 14th, the 15th and the 16th are connected. So let's do all of these and plus thirteen, I'd like to ask, let's support. The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to support you as well. This improves the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u130	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u131	I'm asking you to back me up. [[11:24:20]] For 232
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u132	Corrections accepted. So we settled everything. I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law and as a law, and taking into account the amendments that we've taken into account, making changes to some of Ukraine's legislative acts. Registration number 4017. Please vote. [[11:24:57]] For 271 Only something Yuri Anatolyovich's native faction won't support. The law is passed. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[on the alienation of property]] Second reading. The chairman of the committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, after considering in the first reading of the draft law no proposals have been received, and the main central proposal of the people's deputies Karmazin and Kirilczuk that transfers of military property, apart from immovable, foreign states, can be made on a free basis only in accordance with valid international agreements, the consent of which is given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taken into account and enshrined in this document. There is a request to vote in favour of this document, to accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u134	Yes, thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Please, Semenyuk, first edit, not counted, microphone. No, no, you do. Semenyuk, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u135	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Georgie Korniyovich, I understand Ukraine's desire to get rid of that property that may not be. Today it is burdensome for the state, but at the same time it must be taken into account. What you need to know is that in Parliament, too, for the purpose of controlling what weapons are given where they are going. Today's giving is already, you'll forgive me, because there's no adequate funding for the construction of those officers' residences, there's no adequate funds to spend the military, and we're going to donate property here. So my proposal was that we should still see what's passed on when it's passed on, and it's going to be primarily parliamentary control. That's the first one. And the second. I've got a letter from the defense minister who's offering to buy Damage cars right now, that's exactly one eighth of the budget. Here we're going to donate, and here we're going to buy damage. So tell me, will anyone ever think about those soldiers who are sitting half-hungry today? My offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u136	Dear Valentina Petrovna, first of all, your proposal was, as you can see from the transcript, to record in the law which types of immovable property will be passed on free of charge. The bill is foreshadowed only. the ability to transfer only movable property. So your proposal to this law has nothing to do with it. This is the first time. And second of all, about control. Since we write that a transfer can take place only on the basis of treaties, it is an agreement on the obligation given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to do so by Parliament. So your position is fully accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u137	Valentino Petrovna, do you insist? I'm putting to the vote the first draft of the People's Deputy Semenyuk. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:28:26]] For-38 No music. Not counted. Everything else is taken into account, so we have every reason to vote on acceptance as a whole on the basis of the second reading and, as a whole, the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5777]] Please vote. [[11:29:10]] For 172 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 8, Regions - 9, Communist faction - 55, SDPU - 28, Labour Ukraine - 11, National Agrarian Party - 8, SPU - 0, Block Timoshenko - 4, Union - 10, Only Ukraine - 15, Center - 0, NDP, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 11, Deminiciative - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 13. Dear colleagues! I'm particularly talking to the Ukrainian Regions. The author of the Cabinet of Ministers bill. We won't vote again. Please, three minutes. Please sign up. Please, Kosov. He's got Bronnicks on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u138	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich! In what Valentina Petrovna says is the reason, because there really isn't a very clear set of legal points. So let the Cabinet of Ministers prepare this bill more carefully, and then you won't need to, as Chairman, address representatives, at least the former parliamentary-government coalition, and we will support it with our Ukraine and other factions. I have really come to know this law the same way, and there are some questions that I have before it is finally adopted. Let's put it off for now, and at least from, let's send it back to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u139	Please, Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, it is not just about moving property, it is about weapons. And there is a world practice that the Soviet Union, for example, has encountered since the end of the Great Homeland War. The property that was transferred to us was destroyed and exported if we were unable to buy it, so from this world practice, since these weapons, we have no right to retreat and weapons must either be sold in accordance with world rules or destroyed and exported. Thank you. The law should therefore be adopted, even if proposed by the Government, it is clearly a speculative law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u141	Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u142	This is the Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, there is a proposal to vote again and to return him to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u143	Yes, please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Bulby Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u145	Bulby's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u146	Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction. I am convinced that by this law we can start a new phase of the uncontrolled embalming of the remnants of arms and property of the Ukrainian armed forces. It cannot be accepted in this way; it can be accepted with the correction of Kirilchuk, which, by the way, you, Adam Ivanovich, did not say a word, and it is rejected. And this amendment ensured parliamentary control, because any attempt to transfer free of charge military property and weapons would have to be approved and supported by the Supreme Council. You can't even read it in second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u147	Okay, thanks. Now Georgi Korniyovich. Here was my point. The point is that, in accordance with the Rules, the chairman does not introduce amendments, but the amendments represent the national MP himself. If the national deputy Kirilchuk had the intention of insisting on her, he would certainly have received the word. But he did not do so, so the chairman is acting in accordance with the Rules. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u148	Frankly, I am surprised by Stepanovich. You insist on the amendment made by Deputy Kirilchuk, who wrote that the international agreements would add to the commitment given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is counted. You know, you know, you know, you might actually need to figure this out a little bit. That's the first one. The other one. There were no comments before the bill, although more than a month had passed. It's not like there's gonna be any tragedy, it's the Ministry that has to work with factions. Unfortunately, they're not doing it right now. But as the Supreme Council has voted, so will it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u149	I realized that the committee was not insisting on a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u150	No, please, let's vote again. Please, how will the hall handle this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u151	A motion to re-read the bill is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:34:48]] For 176 The bill was rejected. Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Have a seat. Next one's yours, yes. There's a question of making changes before. Draft Ukrainian Law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order. [[second reading]] Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u152	Following the adoption of the bill, no comments were received. Then there were two moments. First. To record that the defense orders are related to the number of protected articles of the State Budget. And secondly, to write that the law takes effect from January 1st 2006. Even then, when this bill was passed, I was told that this law did not change the order of the defence order. Therefore, it is not necessary to determine the time of entry into force on January 1, 2006. Secondly, according to the Budget Code, the list of protected expenditure articles is determined by the State Budget Act for the year in question. That's fixed. In view of this, the committee introduces to the Supreme Council a draft law to adopt it on second reading and as a law. As the Supreme Council will decide, so will it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Karmazin's edits are here. Georgi Korniyovich. Turn on Carmazin's microphone there, it's out of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear George Korniyovich, I have asked the question that these costs of the State Budget should be included in the financing of the defense order for the list of protected articles. And what it's not in the Budget Act, if we're going to include this right now here on the state defense order, then we're going to have to insist on that law. So I don't understand why we can't write this down, Georgi Korniovich. It's perfectly normal and it helps to get it included in every budget. This is absolutely not contrary to the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Absolutely. On the contrary, it helps to keep each budget for each year. When we write this down and become the norm of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u155	Yuri Anatolyevich, I absolutely don't deny it. The Supreme Council will decide, and I will take a firm vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u156	I'm putting the vote to the vote of the People's Deputy Carmazin, please vote. The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u157	Supports. Support me. [[11:37:43]] For a hundred and
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u158	It didn't work. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, next one is your second revision. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the second amendment applies to the final clauses. I can see that I'm not in the mood to accept it. We're one law now, we haven't passed a good law, and now I don't see anything in the mood to vote again. But, Your Honor, it's necessary. Why did I make a suggestion that this law would take effect on January 1, 2006? The same is true of the fact that the same budget code states that if there is an increase in spending parts of the budget, it is only from the first of January of the year following the approval. That's why it gets to be written in accordance with the Code -- from January 1st, 2006. Absolutely fine. And those who see themselves already as prime minister and in the future government, I don't understand that they're running out of time? Why don't they vote today? We must vote in favour of this law and for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u160	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I fully supported what you said at the first amendment. The second is not defined here, there is no increase or decrease -- it's just the order. Therefore, there is no need to determine any more time for the introduction of this law. That's all. And if we had left.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u161	Yuri Anatoly agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u162	Remove this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u163	Therefore, dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a whole and as the Act amending the article of the Fifth Law of Ukraine on State Defence Order. Registration number 5725. Please vote. [[11:39:54]] For 313 Thank you. For 313, the law was passed. There is a bill to amend some of Ukraine’s acts regarding traffic and pedestrians in the wake of security measures. Second reading, reports Kruk Yuri Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! According to the bill, we considered it in the Supreme Council on 1 July and received 10 comments. Out of ten, six are in, four are out. But I have to tell you, this bill, it mainly regulates articles 26-26-1 - “Restriction or prohibition of traffic during travel of persons under State protection”. It shall be established that the restriction or prohibition of the movement of vehicles or pedestrians on individual sites is prohibited. Only during the visit of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, heads of foreign States, parliaments, Governments, international governmental organizations and foreign delegations who are in Ukraine with an official visit shall be authorized or permitted. A road restriction or prohibition shall be established not earlier than 10 minutes prior to departure and shall be lifted no later than three minutes after departure. And so on. A number of questions and comments were taken into account in the travel at that time, “Early assistance” was allowed to move, fire there and so on. I would therefore ask you, on behalf of the Committee, to enact this law as a law, as proposed by our professional committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u165	But no, we won't vote yet, because Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin has comments and suggestions. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Yuri Borisovich, I have proposed the name of the law that it should contain the name of the laws to which changes are made. This is the first technical, I think, remark that needs to be written down. Because we're already writing in the second law absolutely inexplicably the same thing today: "to some laws." Where do they teach this -- tell me the name of the university where they teach it? They don't teach normal students that. They're teaching you what law. Well, second technical, second amendment: numbering individual parts of the law. We've come to this, we've already got this legal practice, this legal technique, let's not walk away from it. Why did the committee not take this into account? That's the first two technical amendments I've had. Third and eighth, I ask you to give me your word, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u167	Okay. Please, Yuri Borisovich, first and foremost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u168	Well, given the deep respect of Yuri Anatoleevich, I think they can, in principle, be accepted, but the decision of the committee I said. The drafters have thus marked their bill. The Committee therefore supported the issue. I think we can put it to a vote if the Supreme Council supports these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u169	I'm voting on the proposal of the first Carmazine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:08]] For-86 Not accepted. I'm putting Karmazin's second amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:29]] For-66 Not accepted. Please, Karmazin's microphone for the following amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u170	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Carmazine. Article 26 cf. The title of the article should be defined in the wording “limiting or prohibiting road traffic during travel, finding or residing of persons under State protection”. I mean, I'm clarifying the name that would clearly fit the subject of this law. This is amendment 3. And I could argue 8, but it's one by one. I'd like to hear Yuri Borisovich's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u171	Please, 3rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u172	And, ladies and gentlemen, we all need this law. The city of Kiev has grown tired of these passages, especially in the summertime, from what is counted as being not citizens but by some bastard who can wait hours for these roadblocks. So please take this law seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u173	Yuri Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u174	Well, you can agree with Yuri Anatolievich here, although in principle, I said the Committee's opinion. As Vice-Chairman of the Committee, I could agree, but it really deserves attention. This amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u175	I'm putting the third vote on the vote. On the third right, please. [[11:46:13]] Z-91 8th row. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In Article 26, I propose to add a new part: "No restrictions or prohibitions are allowed on separate sections of the highways and roads, roads and streets of local importance, on which the building is located or inhabited by persons who are protected by the State." Understand what happened now. Every house where someone's living right now has signs that they can't go in there, they can't go in. It's making you uncomfortable! This is a violation of the constitutional principle of equality! And the honourable national MPs, this is all provided for in the Code of Road Traffic Laws, which we and a group of 20 deputies passed, but which is blocked. And that's why we have the traffic jams and the abuse of people on the routes that are now in town.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u177	I don't think, except for the "big bangs," as you said, I didn't hear that in law school, but in any case, yours was considered on the committee, and unfortunately, the committee didn't support it. That's why I think we should put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u178	Let's put Karmazin's eighth amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:03]] For-86 So we made all the adjustments, the proposals went away. I'm voting on adoption as a whole. No questions asked, for this is the second reading. Sit down, Yuri Borisovich. I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4052]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:46]] For 247 The law is passed. The question is: a draft Ukrainian law amending article 77-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for self-incineration of dry vegetation or its residues]] From the committee we have a report from Grzezhev Yuri Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u179	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Pursuant to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the special committee, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, after the first reading of the bill, finalized it, considered it at its meeting, unanimously voted and decided to submit the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the text of the draft law, after its adoption on the first reading, received comments and proposals from 4 people's deputies: Leluka Alexei Vladimirović, Karmazin Jurija Anatoljević, Shirko Jurija Vladimirović and Shershun Nikolay Hartonović. They are all substantial and practically accounted for, only in part. The Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has announced the bill without any comment. To your attention, 340 people's deputies voted in the first reading for the bill. The Committee commends the people's deputies for their friendly support for the draft law and further appreciates the importance of managing human and environmental relations. In our view, it is this issue that will determine the problem of human survival in the future, and therefore the preservation of the environment must be a priority for us. In view of this, distinguished people's deputies, the Committee strongly requests you, too, to support the bill and to vote in favour of it in second and second reading, and as the Law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u180	Yes, the honourable national MPs, Anatoly Dmitrovic reported, to the second reading of the Committee's proposal, they're all taken into account, we have all the bets to put to the vote the proposal of the committee on the approval of the project as a whole as a law. Please, we're just voting on proposals, I don't see your proposals. Therefore, honourable national MPs are put to the vote for adoption as a whole as a bill amending article 77-1 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, on responsibility for the arbitrary burning of dry vegetation, or its residues, registration number 3538, please vote, secondly as a whole as the Law. [[11:52:19.]] For 314 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being introduced. [[on the liability of taxi drivers]] Marcus Maria Andriyevna, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, will inform us of proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, this bill has already been considered. And the committee in the process of preparing this bill for second reading adopted and considered 19 comments and suggestions, including Markus, Desert Tenko, Bespali, Matthew and Carmazin, as such authors of the legislative initiative. We're counting five. Declined - 12 and included in part two comments and suggestions. The committee's conclusion, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted in general and voted in favour of the law. Please vote, because everyone has been talking about the relevance of this issue, because lately too many travel adventures have happened with taxi drivers and one of the causes of the victims who were during these road transport adventures were the transshipment of taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, the report of the committee's deputy head has been completed. We have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to approve the draft law in second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? None. Thank you. There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote as a bill of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 3497. [[on the liability of taxi drivers]] Please vote. [[11:54:22]] For 287 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for breach of bank secrecy]] [[Registration number 3550]] He will report to Marcus Maria Andrew's draft law, deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u183	Bill 3550 amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal responsibility for illegal collection for the purpose of using or using information that constitutes a bank secret and disclosure of a bank secret was worked out on the committee until the second reading. There were eight suggestions and observations. Of these, three are counted, two are partially counted, and three are rejected. The authors of the legislative initiative: Chickal, Nazbank Ukraine, and Carmazin The Committee's conclusion. The bill can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u184	No warning? There's a warning in Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Yuri Carmazin's seventh amendment. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. You rightly said, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you read carefully that the seventh amendment really foresees that I propose to remove the conflict that has now arisen in the form of competition between the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Violations. I propose article 164 with the 11th Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to exclude. And this law can then be adopted. If we don't rule it out, I won't vote for it. Because there's going to be competition standards. And I can't understand how he was missed. At least, I think that now the honourable reporter knows and will support me to do so by voting, because otherwise he loses his sense of acceptance. There will be two standards: criminal and the Code of Administrative Violations. They'll compete. And how will those courts decide? Let's think about what that's going to be like.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, if this is the case in practice, of course we shouldn't allow it as lawmakers, so I support Karmazin's amendment and I would ask you to support it, too, because it would be inappropriate, it could now be corrected. Please vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee agrees with Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin’s proposal. Let us vote in favour of this amendment, so that the law is not consecrated. Vote number seven of Yuri Karmazin, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:57:23]] For 253 Copy that. Correction counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u188	please vote in favour of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for breach of bank secrecy]] Registration number 3550, please vote. [[11:58:03]] For 336 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another bill on the second reading, so let's take a look at it and call it a break. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 4574. [[on the responsibility for infringement of animal welfare rules]] The reporter is the deputy chairman of the committee, Marcus Maria Andriyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, this bill was also drafted on the committee, prepared for the second reading. A total of 24 suggestions and comments were processed. Of these, 11 were counted, three were partially counted, and 10 were rejected. The proposals and comments submitted were the authors of the legislative initiative by the deputies of Chickal, Bespali, Chernevski, Pecklusenko, Johnov, and Leluk. The conclusion of the bill committee can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. I ask you, your honor, to vote if there are no remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u191	Boris Bespali. The fourth line of Boris Bespalogo, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u192	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." I agree with the fourth, as with the committee's position at all. I don't agree with the 12th amendment where the bill foresees keeping dogs, cats, other animals in places where it's forbidden by the relevant rules. As we know, it's what anyone wants, it's what they set. That's why I'm proposing, because it's about actions for which a serious administrative complicity can be imposed, to replace the word "rules," with the word "legislature," only officially. I remind you that legislation includes both the laws and the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers, the central executive bodies, the local authorities, and, above all, the decisions of local councils, it's also part of the legislation. Then we'll protect people, or we'll actually have rules and stuff. I insist on replacing "rules" with "legislatives."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u193	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I don't deny it, because Boris Jakovitch, in fact, has made the right point, and so, really, in order to make a distinction between each and the other's rules, the sanction of this article is serious enough, I agree to replace the words "appropriate rules" with the words "appropriate legislation," and I don't deny it. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee agrees with Amendment No. 12, as argued by Boris Bespaly. Therefore, the amendment is a vote. Please vote. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u196	Vote, please. [[12:01:02]] For 221
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u197	Correction not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u198	We're not there, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we haven't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u199	Okay. Dear colleagues, who would like to return to Amendment 12 for consideration, please vote. [[12:01:30]] For 299 Now we have returned to the consideration of this amendment. The vote is amended as follows: 12. Please vote. [[12:01:53]] For 315 Correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u200	Please, with the same result, vote for the bill and accept it as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u201	Honourable National MPs propose to the vote a committee proposal on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for violations of the rules on the holding of animals. Registration number 4574. Please vote. [[12:02:39]] For 328 The law is passed. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours of 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u202	I invite the deputies to the session room so that we can move on to the question of the election of judges. Judges are present at the head of the Supreme Court, Malarenko Vasil Timfiyovich. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please. Draft Regulations 6425, 6425-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u203	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your Honor! Yesterday, the Committee on Legal Policy reviewed judges’ nominations for various positions: local courts, appeals courts, and the Supreme Court of Commerce. Where the committee doubted, we withdrew, made appropriate checks. Today, two decisions are made for your consideration. First 6425. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one, article 128, of the Constitution, it is recommended that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Cosigin Larissa Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Korotkov Viktor Dmitrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Malinsk Svetlana Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian District of Wadzin, Paul Aleksandrovitch; the Court of Appeal of the Cherniewice District of Ružil Aleksija Andryovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Dimarecki Viktor Mihajlovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Western Region of Stefanitz Yuri Georgievovich; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Voronko Irina Antonovna; the local Kosovo District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Turjanski Igor Evgeniyovich; Local Brinkow City Court of the Luhansk district of Dronsky Irina Alexiyevna; the local Artemian District Court of Lugansk Storobuk Tetjana Anatoliyevna; the local Malinov Regional Court of Odessa Demchenka Aleksandra Mikolayovich; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Herson Zabodní Volodymyr Mikolayovich; The local Darnitsky District Court of Kiev Majdanevich Anatolia Grigorovich. They've gone through the proper commissions, the selection. There's a Supreme Court case. The committee also recommends that they be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! No warning? Is it? Please, cook. Then Melniczuk Mikhailo. Let us, as we have agreed, identify a specific name and then find out what the situation is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I ask you to remove the name of Igor Evgenovich from this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u206	Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u207	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Actually, I have no comment to Ružil Alexi Andriyovich, and I will vote and support his entire faction. But I would like to turn to him, after this high decision of parliament to return home and consider a complaint regarding the conviction by the Court of Justice of the Kalinian market entrepreneurs. Because it was an order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues! No more warnings? That's how. Please, Kravchenko Mikola, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u209	Vassil Vasilovich, in general, I have no priors. But there is such a general question. We are constantly accused of the judges, the courts of various levels of corruption, insufficient consideration and so on. But we're not doing, I think, our primary function. The only question that depends on us today is the financing of the courts. To date, what we have been budgeted for is underfunding again, I do not remember the absolute number, but the minimum needs of the courts are not met. What can we talk about, what can we talk about corruption there and so forth? What the Committee is doing on this issue is to pre-finance the courts before that minimum need.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u210	I am very grateful for that question. In fact, in recent years courts have been financed at 70 percent. And now there's also a large underfunding of the judicial system, the construction is not actually working, and the committee has been looking at this issue, we've brought it up to the powder committee, and I think they're going to listen to us, and we need the courts to be funded for full capacity according to the requirements that are being made before the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u211	Sergei Slabenko, please, I'd like to ask you specifically for your nominations, if you have a comment then on Hennady Osipovich Udovenko. Sergey Slabenko Group "Centre".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u212	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to remove this from the list of Shorty Viktor Dmitrovich, and I have a separate question for him. I think that, after these questions, the room can decide on this candidate, taking into account that he had a pretty big break in his job as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u213	Thank you. The widow of Gennady Josephovich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u214	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have no comment on the judges' candidatures, but I also have questions to the Head of the Committee in the presence of these judges. Our nation today holds an honor in the 8th place in the world by the number of people sentenced to 10,000, or is it not a disgrace to us -- to Parliament that we are so, so the laws are adopted, that we are once again starting to judge and it is not a disgrace to everyone, to the entire judicial system of Ukraine. 8th place in the world by the number of people sentenced to 10,000. With this indicator, we can be proud of being able to enter the great eightth place of honor in that important international organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u215	It's a really sad statistic, and here we need to reform both the judicial system and the penitentiary system and the investigative system, it's a whole set of issues that we're going to discuss on March 16 when there's parliamentary hearings about the state of judicial reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u216	Dear national MPs, no other warnings? Please, Gunnery Eugene, please only go to the candidates, because we're going to have this discussion. Please, Eugene Gorenik, microphone, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u217	Vasil Vasilovich, Eugene Górnik, "Our Ukraine" faction There are a number of candidates who are not yet five years old as judges. I understand that this is allowed. But is it not too early to speak of them as temporary judges?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u218	I want to say that they've been tested by the High Qualifying Commission, which is before the Supreme Court, where they've been questioned by the judges of the Supreme Court, by lawyers, authorized by human rights, and by many other important people. Those who have attended this talk have the right to be recommended according to applicable legislation. Moreover, we ask them unpleasant questions on the committee, and we have no doubt about their qualifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u219	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to discuss this. School, please, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u220	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vasil Vasilovich, I'm just looking at the papers right now, so it turns out we've been looking at this judge of Turiansky for the third time. I think that there should be practice so that the committee would once make a decision, and there wouldn't be this moment that the Supreme Council would repeatedly reject. I mean, I think there's got to be a procedure that if he hasn't gone to one session, he'll only be offered for the next. And I think it's going to be perfectly normal for people who file their papers. And for the committee, it'll be a relief. Because, really, we've had cases where we've been looking at the same candidate every week. So I'd like this to be a question taken out of it somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u221	This question has already been settled. You know that you and I have adopted the Law on the Timeless Election of Judges and only twice is allowed to apply to a judge. So it's okay, it's not on the third time, second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u222	There are no other warnings. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We remove from the draft decree the name of the judges of Korotkov Viktor Dmitrovitch and Turyan Igor Evgenovich, and we vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis, registration number 6425, by removing Korotkov and Turyanski. Please vote. [[12:49:37]] For 331 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 60, “Regions of Ukraine” - 52, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 20, National Agrarian Party - 22, SPU - 20, “One Ukraine” - 18, Block Timoshenko - 15, “Soyuz” - 12, “Trud Ukraine” - 10, NDP and PPU - 12, “Centre” - 11, “Deminicatives” - 3, “Affection - 18. Quick Victor Dmitrovitch, please come to the microphone. Who gave the warning? Sergey Slubenko, please, your warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on page 5, you will see an autobiography of the applicant for this position. The candidate is invited to address the Court of Appeal in the Odessa region. For the last time, he worked in court in 1991, and before that, he served as a national judge of the district court. He was the head of this court. I had some warnings on the committee, or it was possible to take into account the fact that there was a big break for more than 14 years. And start by going back to the judicial system of branches of power, trying to work in the district court, then in the appeals court, then maybe in the Supreme Economic Court. So I do have a question: how does a person who has enough time off in his internship get to work in an appeal court right away? And believe me, taking a decision by the Court of Appeal is now in force, and any charges against the institutions of cassation usually do not provide for the possibility of non-execution of court decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u224	To me? We did yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u225	Please. Your decision to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, we discussed this issue yesterday. I mean. Indeed, there is such a break. And the fact that Korotkov was a lawyer gave us reason to recommend him. He didn't work, he didn't notice. I don't know if we have a problem or a job ban? None. We recommend it in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on the Status of Judges and the Law on the Judiciary. Everything is clearly adhered to in accordance with our current legislation. The committee supports the nomination.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u227	Yes, the distinguished national MPs, the warnings were made by the national deputy, the explanations are from the committee. Then we have every reason to put to the vote the election of the judge on an untimely basis, this is the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region, Shortow Viktor Dmitrovic. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:52:42]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 7, "Ukrainian Regions" - 8, Communist factions - 56, SDPU - 24, People's Agrarian - 18, SPU - 3, "One Ukraine" - 18, Tymoshenko - 11, "Soyuz" - 6, "Centre" - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, "Trubic Ukraine" - 7, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 12, non-fractional - 11. Weak, please. What will we discuss, dear colleagues? There is a vote to be made. Then we'll go back to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u228	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues that they can look into that help, and you will read in it that in the 92-93 years, Reverend Viktor Dmitrovic worked as deputy director of commercial affairs in company with limited responsibility. In the '95s and '96s, he's the deputy director of commercial affairs in the company of the Starocostinian Aero-Industry Complex, etc. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to take another look. I'm not against the judges' candidatures, I'm taking any candidate seriously. However, I have a warning in part that it may be necessary for such work to begin with a circuit court, to start restoring the skills that a person may lose if he is not constantly specialized in dealing with certain cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, well, we're going to have a strange argument that the District Court should have other rights and other possibilities, and the District Court, that means it's already a qualitatively new level. I think the same respect for the law, the service of the law should be demonstrated by the judge, both in the district court and in the Supreme Court. Sirenko Vasil Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u230	Dear colleagues! We have the idea of legal reform in order to make each chain of court the same, exactly the same, legal decision, by the power of a legal decision. And why is there a district court or an appeal court or a Supreme Court? Professionals, experts, are required there. And the references to what we need to start from the district court are completely groundless. Besides, this man, I think in the material, he's been working with the legal array all the time. Counsellor, is it not legal counseling? It's a man with a legal background. And when we are tried by the police, how do we understand that? So I think there's a reason for us to vote and not give in to this hypothesis, or maybe he can't? Maybe she can handle it!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u231	Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u232	Dear Vladimir, dear colleagues! Consider the first time that a judge is appointed. For the first time since the Institute, if he has a few years of internship there, he was not a judge at all. He is appointed either the head of the court or the judge, and he makes the same decisions as in the Court of Appeal. The level really has to be the same. Today, Sergey Ivanovich, we are going to be involved in a matter that belongs to the Higher Qualifications Committee and that is to say whether it has a proper level or not. I don't think that's our question. We have no claim to a judge today in terms of his profession, profession, other requirements of the Constitution. So I'm asking you to support the position of the committee in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u233	Kisse, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u234	Deputies! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Just at the time when Shortov was president of the court, I served as deputy head of the Rajvikonski. He's a decent person, a man with a lot of experience, you can see from the biography. I strongly request that you return to the vote and support this candidature. People like him only have to be supported. And they really are not just judges, they are just people who have a human factor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u235	Mikhail Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, there's only one thing I want to say. The system of appointment of judges is probably far from perfect. But we don't have another one. We have a legal committee that examines the candidature of each judge. It's where our colleagues work from different factions. So let's not turn the Supreme Council Hall into a court of judges. Maybe someone's not comfortable, but it's impossible for a judge to choose from political passions, or to take advantage of what that judge likes or dislikes. I invite judges here, in this Chamber of the Supreme Council, not to turn into defendants. Let's vote for them, let them go and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u237	Yavorowski, please. And that's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u238	Vladimir Yavorowski. My dear colleagues, Your Honor Vassil Vasilovich. Vasil Vasilovich, no one in this room likes you as much as I do, my countryman. But I'll say you're absolutely wrong, because you're saying, "From there, I mean, the High Council of Justice has considered." So let's not put it on the Supreme Council at all. If we put the last dot and we vote, we give the judges the right to judge people. It's a higher form that there is. I think we voted once. I don't know if he's a great judge, but we voted once, he didn't vote. After he decided to support Kisse, I feel as if he won't take anything after that. Because of this, we put a dot and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u239	Yes, the distinguished national MPs have come to an end with a motive. I beg of you, fellows of honor! I'm asking you, you just walked into the hall, with motive. At least take your seats. Please, don't. I'm asking you to calm down, please. We've been talking for half an hour. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies? Who in favour of returning to the consideration of the candidate, Viktor Dmitrovich, please vote. [[13:00:13]] For 258. Decision taken. I am voting on a motion by the committee to elect the judge of the Court of Appeal of Odessa County, Shorty Viktor Dmitrovic. Please vote. [[13:00:42]] For 277 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u241	Turyan Igor Evgenovich. Please, the microphone of Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u242	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Igor Evgenovich Turyanski’s candidacy has been introduced to this session hall for the third time. Let me remind you what this is about. I've been speaking since this candidature considered that there are very many complaints, statements by voters in the Kosovo region, that is, this is the area that I represent in the Supreme Council, which shows that the reputation of this judge is far from impeccable. It seems to me that a judge should have an irreprehensible reputation. So I'm still asking you not to support this judge, because his work in this office is very indignant to the citizens living in the Kosovo area.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u243	Please, Igor Evgenovich. And then the committee will deliver its verdict. One minute, give me a chance to say. Then there's Mikola Kravchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u244	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! For the second time, my question is being considered, for one time I was simply voted out. I haven't unlawfully confiscated any of my jobs, I haven't used illegal confiscation, which is evidence of my work, which is all I have to say is that I have a complaint from Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich. The case of a private accusation where the family quarreled, and there the matter was heard only on the basis of the testimony of the witnesses. Not only did I take away the woman who wrote the complaint, I did not take away the will, I did not take away the will of any woman, I found reasons for always applying alternative punishment, and no woman in my hand sat down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u245	Mikola Kravchenko, please. Raise your hand, I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u246	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, if we each begin now in the Chamber to bring our insults to the judge, we will not have time to discuss. What's this all about? I've got myself today, I'm the plaintiff, and it's been a year and a half. I swear, I'm doing everything within the law, but I'm not bringing a complaint against all the Kiev judges. The point is that Zvarić did not present a motivation today, an evidentiary basis for rejecting this candidature. We therefore put to the vote and determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u247	Since the name Boiler was called a replica, we will vote, all respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u248	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and honourable Deputy Kravchenko, I, if possible, will then refresh your memory and I want to say that Judge Turyansky is not speaking quite the truth. Because it was not enough that one woman was imprisoned for her actions, but the entire family was imprisoned for saying the wrong word to the judge himself. The issue reached the European Court of Justice, and the state suffered a loss of 17,000 euros. So I would still ask that we don't go back to him, that's the third thing that's being discussed in this sessional room, and I would like to point out again that if this candidature gets votes from the voters of the Kosovo people, they're going to be very indignant about the Supreme Council, because the reputation of this judge is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u249	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u250	Roman Mikhailovich, I want you to hear me, all the more so you know that I am without any political decorations, as I always try to be objective when dealing with matters. We discussed this issue on the Committee yesterday. First of all, the charge that you're talking about is a private charge, when two women or two uncles got into a fight without violating a criminal case to an investigator, and just one relative to the other violates and looks at it in court. The second issue, what you're saying about the European court, was that we gave special attention yesterday and made it clear that it wasn't this judge and it wasn't those people. That's why I'm reporting to the committee's position, and I'm asking you to support this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u251	Yes, may I have your attention, Your Honorary People's Deputies, please have your attention, to vote on the proposal of the Committee for the election of a judge on an untimely basis, this is the local Kosovo People's Court of Ivano-Frankovsky district of Turanski Igor Evgenovich, please vote. [[13:06:37]] For 253 Decision taken. Please follow regulation 6425-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u252	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee has presented you with a draft decree on the appointment of judges on an untimely basis. to the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine of Greece, Kseniya Volodymyrna; Donek's Court of Appeal Bondarev Galina Grigorovna and Geza Taisiy Dmitrovna; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Rudchenk Sergey Grigorovich, Sarichuk Oleg Anatoliyovich and Shevchenk Vitali Juhimovich; Odessa’s Court of Appeal, Matsuru Pavel Fedorovich; Kharkiv's Chamber of Commerce Court of the Funeral of Vladimir Yakovitch; Local Economic Court of the Donetsk Region Duchel Natalia Mikolayovna and Ushenko Ludmila Volodymyrna; to the local court of the Mikolai district of Vasilak Kostin Leonidovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, do you have a warning against surnames? Sergei Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u254	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that the matter is very delicate, but I will inform the session hall and ask to vote separately for Greece Kseniya Volodymyrovna on the grounds that, in my opinion, she, by claiming to be a candidate for the appointment of a termless judge of the higher court of commerce, is elected as a judge of the courts of the Kyiv region, i.e. from the first line of court to the court which has the right of constitutional establishment. I have the same warnings regarding Ruchenko Sergey Grigorovitch, who had previously served as a judge of the military local court of the Kyiv garrison and planned to go to the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal. The same warning to Sergiychuk Oleg Anatoliyovich, who had not worked for four years in the post of judge and was elected judge of the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal. Until then, he had served as a judge in the district court of Sevastopol. So once again, I'd like to say that it's the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u255	Let me finish thinking about the possibility. Dear colleagues, let's go through the rules, please. Let's define by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u256	The very procedure for the appointment of appeal courts and court of appeal, namely, chains that are legally valid, and you will execute them all because the law requires them to do so. Because the first chain of charges is still open, it may be considered that the decision is not legally binding. Vassil Vasilovich, and this makes it possible to correct possible mistakes by a judge. I therefore propose to vote separately on all candidates. And let the room be determined by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u257	What's the last candidate, Vasil Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u258	So Rudchenko, Sergiychuk and Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u259	And the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u260	And the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u261	Please, the microphone. And Chickanov Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, according to the logic of the previous speaker, since we elect judges, the people's deputies may not be elected at first either, but we must go the way of the people's MP, return the members of the district council, the city council, the district council, even the village council. It is only then possible to become a national representative of Ukraine. That'd probably be good. But it's not the kind of situation we have in court today that we're on our way. And there must be a situation where we have to vote for these people on the list as decided by the Committee. I have no claim for any nomination, and I propose to vote in favour of them all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u263	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u264	In this case, logic, as in the famous anecdote of Vasil Ivanovich Chapayev’s logic, is the legendary hero of the Civil War. Sergey Ivanovich, the mind of the beard is not waiting. The Russian is such a talk. I'll tell you what, the cases in the local court, the same things go up, the same things go up, the same things go down to the Constitutional Court. There's no difference. There are issues of honesty, integrity, balance and professionalism -- these are the approaches.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u265	What's the committee's offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u266	The committee's proposal is to support every candidate. We have no doubt about the qualifications of these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, the first sentence of the committee on the election of judges is the vote. This is registration number 6425-1 because there are no specific claims. Please vote. [[13:11:51]] For 316 Decision taken. Let us welcome the judges who have just been appointed to positions on time, to be more precise, to be chosen and to wish for the fruitful service of the law and all manner of things. [[Applause]] Yes, thank you for taking part in our democratically exclusive procedure for the election of judges on an uninterrupted basis. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the section "Re-examination of laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine." The Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State support for the shipbuilding industry, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 6.07.2004, registration number 4346, is under consideration. Reporter - Minister of Industrial Policy Neustroyev Alexander Leonidovich Please. Gureev Vasil Mikolaiovich will be the narrator. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u268	Honourable National Deputies, the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on State Support Measures for Shipbuilding, which was introduced on January 1, 2000, certainly played a positive role in the shipbuilding sector. The Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Committee of Industrial Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted on 15 June 2004 the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on State Support for the Shipbuilding Industry of Ukraine, which in fact entrenched the Act. The president of Ukraine reviewed this law and returned with proposals for reconsideration. The law provides for an extension to the 2012 tax scheme, which ends on January 1, 2005, for shipbuilding enterprises, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with this corporate tax regime, companies are exempt from duty, land tax, tax benefits for value added tax, and are expected to be paid in the first order of compensation from the State Budget for value added tax. The introduction of such a tax regime for a particular group of enterprises does not correspond, firstly, to the principle proclaimed in article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning State protection of competition for entrepreneurship, the non-admission of its restriction, as defined in article 3 of the Act on the system of taxation of the principle of equality, the non-admission of any tax discrimination in respect of the payment of taxes and assemblies. In article 49 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, which provides for Ukraine’s commitment to refrain from providing State support to individual enterprises or producers of goods. The law. Undetermined sources of cost compensation are violated by the principle of budgetary balance proclaimed in the third article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget requires the identification of expenditure to be reduced or additional income sources provided that the law provides for a reduction in budget revenues. In summary, the law is proposed to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u269	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. From the Committee on Industrial Policy to the presentation, Guriev Vasil Mikolaiovich is invited. People's deputies, please invite you to the session room. We need to make responsible decisions right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, today the issue under consideration is, indeed, issues that concern more the economic policy of the state than the situation that has arisen in the field. In two words it can be said that all the legislation that exists in the state today is based on enterprises that have a short cycle of production. And shipbuilding is a sector in which production is produced over two or three years. And so the law that existed before January 1, 2005, first of all, he wrote out the conditions for a long-term manufacturing cycle. And if a foreign purchaser orders a ship and requires that a combination of 80 percent, by the way, the cost of the ship should be used by various firms that are subject to repair, certification, such as navigational equipment and so forth. And when you import this product, the customer has to pay 20 percent of VAT and customs. And if this product is 80 percent of the cost of the ship, then it's going to be 50 to 60 percent of the cost of the company. And for two or three years, the company can't work and produce a foreign order. That is why this law was passed. And he worked and made it possible to work the whole field. We have whole cities and areas, 10 powerful shipbuilding companies. There's only four businesses in Nicholas. And everyone remembers what strikes were five years ago, and it was the companies that forced us to make these decisions. And I want to say again, it's not the benefits of legislation, it's the conditions that the state creates for the existence of a very important sector. Contracts are concluded today. We don't go on with 1 number. The new year does not continue this law. What will happen? All factories will be stopped and the street will be filled with manufacturers. This is a very important question, and it is not possible to consider it solely from the level of the aid. Another problem. Today we know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u271	Yeah, let's get this over with. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u272	Travelling all contracts, increasing interest on credit, ruining the industry. Thank you. I'm proposing from the committee, and the committee has made this decision to beat the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u273	Yes, distinguished national MPs, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, fellow officers? In accordance with the Rules, may I have your attention, please? - puts to the vote the President's first motion for rejection. If we don't make a decision, the second proposal is to overcome the veto. If we don't get through the veto, then the law is automatically rejected because we haven't made any decisions. Therefore, the first vote is the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject Ukraine's legislation to amend some Ukrainian legislation on State support for the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry. Registration number 4346. [[13:20:35]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! It is now up to the vote to propose to the committee on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine on the law of Ukraine to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine, registration number 4346. [[on State support for the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry]] Please vote. [[13:21:13]] For 337 Decision taken. The veto of the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's Act to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts has been overtaken. [[on State support for the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry]] The factions, please. Our Ukraine -77, Regions -54, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 14, Labour Ukraine - 9, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, Union - 10, Only Ukraine - 20, Center - 0, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, Deminiciatives - People's Government - 9, Postfaction - 18. The Ukrainian Criminal Code, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 02.12.2004, registration number 2366, has been announced for consideration. Reporter of Deputy Minister Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna. To prepare for the committee of Neciporuk Volodymyr. Please. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u274	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Honorable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Supreme Council's Act to Amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine was not signed by the President for such reasons. [[establishing criminal responsibility for the illegal financing of judicial bodies]] The law proposes to supplement the Criminal Code with a new article 376-1, which establishes responsibility for the unlawful financing of judicial bodies outside the State budget by an official of executive bodies, local government bodies, enterprises, institutions and organizations, irrespective of the form of ownership or of a natural person in any form. A separate article on this form of crime will result in the competition of this article 376-1 with a series of other articles of the Criminal Code, such as those related to unlawful financing of the court, depending on the purpose and method of carrying out such financing, may qualify as a crime under article 376 — interference with the activities of judicial authorities, as well as a number of articles that provide responsibility for official crimes 364: abuse of power or official office, and 365: excess of authority, or official authority. Or according to article 210 of the legislation on the budget system, such competition is unacceptable because it will complicate the application of the criminal code. The law also introduces the concept of an official. I would like to remind the honourable people that in the new criminal code this definition has been excluded and now the concept of an official is being applied. And the last is that this law does not determine the undersecurities, namely: which authorities will conduct a pretrial investigation into these matters. In general, this brings the introduction of this article and the imposition of responsibility for similar crimes. In connection with this President, it is proposed that the law be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u275	Yes, thank you, Inna Ivanovna, sit down. The unsub Volodymyr. Who from the Committee, the honourable colleagues, will report? Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head of the Committee. Well, there's a solution. Vasil Vasilovich, please. Here is the truth of the committee's decision, which is in line with the President's proposals, please, the Onopenek microphone, Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u276	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for my personal support for the position of President, as reported by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Emilianov. We have, so the mountain has given birth to a mouse and we have all these issues settled. In some way, obviously the euphoria, we have now adopted this Law. So my personal position is to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u277	Maria Andriyovna Marcus is the Deputy Head of the Committee. Please, the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, this bill was discussed at a committee meeting. And the Committee concluded that it was necessary to support the President's proposals, because the bill, which was then adopted as a basis, had a lot of inadequacies and thought against its adoption. But in the end it was so that he was voted on by the popullian motives, and when he returned to the Committee with the president's comments, it was suggested that those remarks were correct. I fully support these remarks and agree with the Deputy Minister. And the committee did the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u279	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the occasion where we are fortunate that both the President of Ukraine and the Committee have coincided. Let's make a decision that fits. So I'm voting on the President's proposal, which is supported by the profile committee on the repeal of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code. [[establishing criminal responsibility for the illegal financing of judicial bodies]] Registration number 2366. Please vote. [[13:26:42]] For 249 The law has been revoked. It is announced for the consideration of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Social Protection of Military Servants, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 23.10.2004. Registration number 4487. The reporter of Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please. Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Stepanovich Bulba will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u280	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. This law is designed to improve the pension of military personnel. There is no doubt about the relevance and the need to resolve these issues. But, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the following moments. The issue is that on June 15, 2004, the Supreme Council adopted amendments to article 43 of the Law of Ukraine, to another law, "On the pension insurance of military personnel, persons in charge and the composition of internal affairs bodies and certain other persons", which takes effect on January 1, 2005. This law provides that the corresponding pension census will be made on January 1, 2005, and 50 percent of pensions will be eliminated. Since January 1, 2006, a 100 - percent pension will be eliminated. With regard to this law, which is being considered today in the Supreme Council, it also proposed 100 percent elimination, a differentiation from January 1, 2006. However, a change was made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies, and it was announced with the introduction of January 1, 2005. According to the Ministry of Finance, the additional need for funds is over 1 billion dollars. I don't think there's any national MP in this room who would be against this law going into effect since January 1, 2005, even December 1, 2004. But the question is otherwise that it is necessary to find sources of funding in accordance with the Budget Code and find this additional billion. And according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it's a billion 200 million dollars. Moreover, this law does not have a calculation mechanism, that is, a direct act law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that this issue be settled in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I propose to adopt this bill with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u281	Thank you, Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Stepanovich Bulba is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Security and Defence Committee on 3 November this year reviewed the President's proposals for a bill adopted by the Supreme Council, the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on social protection of military personnel. By the way, I would like to remind you that on October 7th, 307 national deputies voted in favour of this law. The president promised a bill with four observations. The committee considered one proposal completely, one in part, the other rejected. Including the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to edit the second sentence of the new edition of article 63 of the bill. This is explained by the fact that the position regarding the recalculation of pensions as of 1 January of the current year, proposed by the President of Ukraine, narrows the rights of pensioners provided for by the law and thus contravenes article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Furthermore, article 51 and article 63 of this Law provide that the recalculation of pensions takes place under circumstances such as changes in the size of the financial security or at least one of its types. In our view, it is not appropriate to put the question of recalculation of pensions on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as suggested by the President. Why? First of all, none of the legislation on pension insurance provides for such a mechanism. Secondly, an important edition of article 63 of the Ukrainian Law, which I report. contains a clear, self-sustaining rule on the order of recalculation of previously assigned pensions and does not provide for the establishment of another mechanism, more loyally, by the Government of Ukraine. In fact, the imbalance was precisely due to the fact that the order of the recalculation of pensions was determined earlier by the Cabinet’s regulations, not by the Law of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of the President’s proposal does not eliminate the root causes of imbalances in military pensions and lead to contradictions between the individual articles of the Act. Finally. Proposal to delete paragraph three of chapter one and edit in conjunction with this item one of section two. The committee insists on the introduction of payments in the percentage of pensions that were counted to veterans of the Great Homeland War and War with Japan on January 1, 2005, as well as to those who participated in other fighting activities that preceded those wars. I mean, these people don't have much to live for. At the very least, they are 79 years old. I don't know why this number is 1.2 billion. A bracelet that seems to be needed. Let's do it the day before.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u283	Yes, please, the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u284	The committee's proposal is to adopt this Law in a new edition, taking into account the suggestions of the President of Ukraine, and please support the committee's position. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u285	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You understand that the committee with part of the President's proposal has agreed, has rejected part of it. That's why we're adopting the law in the new edition. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, the committee is not proposing to overcome the veto -- that's one thing and the other, the two proposals of the President's committee have been taken into account, two have been rejected. No questions asked. I am voting for the adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Social Protection of Military Servants, registration number 4487. Please vote. [[13:34:17]] For 275 The law was passed in a new order. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 55, “Ukraine” - 27, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 7, National Agrarian Party - 22, SPU - 20, “Ukrainian One” - 19, Timoshenko - 14, “Soyuz” - 11, “Centre” - 6, “Deminicatives” - 5, “Trade Ukraine” - 4, “NDP and PPTU - 10, “Affection - 18. Yes, please, Domanski with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u286	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! I ask your attention, you will see what the Government is doing: we are fighting to eliminate the imbalance in the retirement of military personnel who have resigned at various times, and they are putting the budget back on the imbalance for the following year, when they will increase the pension not by a hundred per cent of the allowance that the military will receive, but only 50 per cent of the allowance that the military will receive today, once again creating a imbalance. I would like Papiev's comrade with his committee and the Ministry to take care of all of this from the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u287	Yes, the question is: Ukraine’s Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of land for cultural, educational, and health workers living in rural areas with proposals from the President of Ukraine. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Garbus Mikhailo Jurkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u288	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Allow me to present proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the provision of land to cultural, educational and health workers living in rural areas. This law cannot be signed because its position does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code of Ukraine, other laws that result in inequality of citizens’ rights in obtaining land may lead to social tensions in the countryside. Yes, 73.4 percent of agricultural land is now passed on to property, scattered, and so on. As of 01.10.2004, 635.3,000 hectares were allocated to social workers, including 588.3 acres [588.3 ha] for personal farming. According to social workers, 927.7 thousand people reported. Lands were given almost 98 percent. At the same time, in this law, part three of article 29 of the Basic Law on Culture does not extend the effects of part two of the same article to citizens who have previously acquired land-pai and land-based areas for personal support farming or private agriculture, which is contrary to the amendments to Ukraine's Land Code in this law. Nor do these provisions determine the order of free privatization of land for employees of relevant state and municipal educational institutions, cultures, health care, and pensioners of their number, contrary to article 118 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, nor do they improve the standards of existing legislation, but simply duplicate them. Honourable national MPs, taking into account the imperfections of the conceptual principles of the law, please support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and reject the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u289	Yes, thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please light up on board for three minutes. Yavorowski, followed by Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u290	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear reporter, you are referring to the fact that the earth is already divided and that the law is imperfect there and so forth. I have a question about an ordinary Ukrainian admirer. Dozens, hundreds of hectares are privatized by the President of ours, who is about to leave, the people around him who are dancing Polish grandmothers and things like that. It's all legal. And what we do is we take away these people, the rural intelligence -- doctors, teachers who raise rural children -- we take away their ability to have this piece of land, and you go up to the rostrum and you convince us that it's bad. How is it to see you as a government official? And the MPs, please take the President's veto. We'll do a great and wonderful thing. I believe Parliament is capable of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u291	Thank you for asking. I want to answer him by saying that the standards of the law are not new. This land legislation, according to 121 articles, provides for all citizens to obtain up to 2 hectares of personal agriculture, which is also provided for by the same amendment law, including article 29 of the culture legislation, which limits the amount of 2 hectares of food. At the same time, I have reported that, according to the President's decree on social security, almost a million social workers, 98 per cent of whom received their applications. If they have received it, the legislation already forbids them to receive anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u292	Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u293	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Mikhail Jurkovic, in your information, your answer to the question is contradictory. You gave us an example of the fact that the land is gone and there is no where to publish it, and there is no foundation. And the adoption of this law would be contrary to the Earth Code and the Constitution of Ukraine. Please tell me that teachers are coming to the village today, university graduates, institutes, hospitals are coming to the FAP and so on. Can you please tell me how to provide them with a land plot if we've already given it all away? We wanted the land market since January 1, 2005, and today we say, sorry, let's trade. I mean, let's trade the land, but for those who come to the village to do it, there's nothing left. So, where's the state reserve land anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u294	Thank you. If I go back to the rules of the law, I would like to say that article 25, which is being amended, regulates the social workers' access to state and municipal enterprises. We have state and municipal enterprises today, which are part of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, which are about 800,000 hectares of land that are unscrupulous. That's the first one. Thus, a small number of people are referred to as asking questions about the dissipation of businesses. As a whole, when it comes to social workers, these rules of law do not apply to them, because they are themselves, article 29, as I repeat, on the basis of cultural legislation, restricting those citizens who have already received, we will talk, land for the management of the private agriculture, and they will not have the right to obtain the land share of the pie. At the same time, I would like to point out that the land share of pie gives the right to produce only, not to own a private farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u295	Thank you, Mikhail Jurkovich. Have a seat, please. From the profile committee, Sokirko Mikola Vasilovich. You don't? Who's on the committee? Please, Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u296	Mikola Odynik, "Our Ukraine" "Solidarity." Dear friends, my attitude towards reforming the agricultural complex at all, and I think you know the bigger troubles could not be done at all. With regard to this bill, unfortunately, we did not consider it on the Committee. After he returned from the President's offer. As far as this is concerned, I can express my point of view. Today, today, the earth is almost scattered. And those statements that go to agriculture, to the former agricultural enterprises that they had in reserve, were reserve land, those lands were already distributed. And virtually redistribution, land redistribution will take place only in the event of the need to replace existing state acts. This bill in general, I think, is my point of view, this is not the view of the Committee, this bill should be rejected in general. Why? Because the land is no longer stocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u297	Yes, dear colleagues, there are questions, sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u298	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u299	Yes, please show me on the board, a lot of people who want to. Three minutes Chubarov, followed by Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u300	I'd like to say, fellow citizens, honourable voters, that I am personally motivated by the proposed law, that it does not establish equality of citizens, that it does give them land. Unless the country was equal when one half of the villagers were given pies and the other half were given pies. In fact, education workers, social workers, in general, can get land out of stock and reserve up to 2 hectares of land. But what are the qualities of these earths? In fact, they are no longer simple. So today we need to talk about, in principle, reviewing all the laws that apply to the earth in order to force both the President of today and the future, and the legislators. We need to overcome the veto right now, make them think about how to give these workers the land. And force everyone, including us to review the Earth Codex. All those living in the village should receive equal land, including those returning from exile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u301	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u302	There was no question. But basically, I want to say that my colleague confirmed what I said from the very beginning, that with the reform of the agricultural complex, we've done a very serious damage or in general today. Yes, among other things, it was not the Supreme Council law, and it was the law. Tell the president to laugh, and now we're laughing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u303	Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u304	Please pass the word to the Omelian Girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u305	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u306	Dear colleague, you and I work on a committee, but you weren't when the Earth Code was adopted. I shouted out loud that this could not be done. It was immediately necessary to set aside in the rural budget area when a doctor was summoned to the swamp at night to help. Why did we give them hot, cold water? What did we give them in the country? Did we take them to the subway, on the funnels? They were just like us tractorists. But the lands of the reserve and the land of the reserve were sold out. And now we have to ask someone from the State and where he buried the earth. Because people will appear in the village, people need to be given land so that they can be equal rights, not beggars, but even colporteurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u307	I agree with you completely. There's no question again, and you're confirming what I'm saying. I fully agree with you in terms of the trouble that has been done, and now we need to go back to those issues that were resolved in the 1990s by President's Order to Laugh Day, by April 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u308	Thank you, Santa Claus. But we didn't have a President in 1990. In 1999 Have a seat, please. Have a seat. We speak the language. Dear colleagues, that's how we're going to define ourselves. First, I am voting on the President’s proposal to reject the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the provision of land to cultural and educational and health workers living in rural areas. Registration number 2352. About the President's rejection of the proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:49:16]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Now I'm voting on the proposal to overcome the veto. Please vote. [[13:49:45]] For 266 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 87, "Regions of Ukraine" - 10, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPU - 20, "Only Ukraine" - 18, Block Timoshenko - 5, "Soyuz" - 4, "Trubic Ukraine" - 3, NDP and PPU - 8, "Centre" - 12, "Deminicatives" - 3, "Afterfraction - 20. Sign up for motives, three minutes. Please, Gunner. He's behind him, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, the Social Democrats are united or whatever you're called, especially Mrs. Proscuratova, who unfortunately is not, but help your colleagues get land, get land rations. And also representatives of other factions who did not vote. I propose a veto vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u310	Please. Hinsburg, behind her, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u311	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Communist faction, Conotope constituency. I would like to emphasize that the faction of Communists was constantly opposed to us adopting such an Earth code. We knew that he would bring great harm to our nation, to our nation, and to our people. Today, however, many people have come to their senses. And I want to ask you again so that we can put this question to the vote again so that our teachers, the doctors who live in the country, feel like they're citizens of our Ukraine and know that they're concerned about them in the Supreme Council. I want to say that the way I care about my own, perhaps other district deputies are concerned about their citizens. Please, Adam Ivanovich, try again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u312	That's an interesting offer. Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u313	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dniproperty. My colleagues, I would like to continue with what colleague Hinzburg has just said on the grounds that it's as if someone was clever after the adoption of the Earth Code. He is truly wise, but for today they are not in the hall, those who have come to their senses. I want to say that the "Regions" are not in the hall today, nor are the factions of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] If they had understood, of course they would have voted. That's the first one. And it's very strange to hear here from our hosts and the committee that there are no more lands in Ukraine. It can't be like that. Look at all the land! We just have to make sure that those people come back to the village, and they have to come, because without specialists, without professionals, without intelligence, they just won't. But it will be the intelligence that the earth should have, for there is no way to survive without the earth today. So I suggest we vote on this issue again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u314	Please, Yukhnovsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u315	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I just want to point out that the committee on this matter has not made any decisions, and I would like to give the floor to the faction manager of the Hubsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u316	Gussky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u317	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In particular, me, and I think most of you voters have asked a very important question in the 2004 elections, how rural intelligence, the social sphere has the right to realize its rights in terms of land. This was injustice when they were left to the land they suffered. This law has been on the Supreme Council for almost a year and a half, all reading has been done, and more than 350 votes have been in favour. I'm sure it's not possible to beat the veto just for technical reasons. So there's a request, people are already gathered, put on the veto, overcome the veto, and give people the opportunity to get land, just to the people who worked for us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u318	I'm voting on a proposal for a veto vote for the bill. Please vote. [[13:54:37]] For 324 Don't be happy, 324, so we're going back. I am voting on the proposal to overcome the veto in Ukraine’s legislation to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of land to cultural, educational, and health workers living in rural areas. Bill 2352. Please vote. [[13:55:17]] For 343 Decision taken. Honorable fellow workers! The factions. You see how we want it, we can. "Our Ukraine" - 94, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 42, Communist faction - 58, Social Democrats - 0, National Agrarian Party - 22, Socialists - 20, "One Ukraine" - 16, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" - 13, "Centre" - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 13, "Trudova Ukraine" - 4, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, "Afterfractional" - 20. We have another law here. Maybe let's do it. A bill of the Ukrainian Law is being followed. More loyally, Ukraine's Act of Amendment to Certain Legislative Acts on Social Protection of Victims of Nazi Persecution, with Presidential Proposals. Please, dear, the committee's proposals. And we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u319	Dear colleagues, the discussion is about the establishment of full legislation on victims of Nazi persecution. All members of the Committee, regardless of party and faction, agreed with the President's proposals. Therefore, please reiterate my appeal to everyone: colleagues, the Law on Improving the Social Protection of Victims of Nazi Persecution, please vote back, no policies, we will help the elderly who have earned this assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-16-m0.u320	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, there is thus a proposal to support the bill, to agree with the President's proposals and to adopt the law in a new edition. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Bill number 3383. Please vote. [[13:57:31]] For 266 The law was passed taking into account the President's proposals in the new edition. Thank you for your fruitful work at the morning session. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Let's get to work at 4:00.
