ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:19]] A total of 439 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Blochin Oleg Volodymyrovich, Koval Vijacheslav Stanislavovich and Mishura Valery Dmitrovic. Let's welcome them and wish them well. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the plenary session of November 4. As predicted, 26 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, seven laws were passed in general, nine bills were adopted in the first reading, and two bills were submitted for redrafting, and 12 bills were rejected. Two decisions have also been made on the preparation of the 70th anniversary of the stohanov movement and on informing the public about environmental issues. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with suggestions, queries, applications, reports. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I'm announcing the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Stepan BULBY to the President of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to an open appeal to the President and Prime Minister of the Group of Geodesists, Doctors and Candidates of Science on the necessity of repealing the President's Order and the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, which led to the liquidation of the State Geodesy Service, Cartography and Cadastre and started the destruction of the geodetic sector. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:30]] For a-117. Request not supported. Mr. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the President of Ukraine for drawing on the responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for its lax attitude toward social affairs. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:04]] For-160. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:27]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Petra TLOČKA to the Prime Minister for the purpose of the construction of the area around the National Architecture Museum and the life of Ukraine in Kiev with limited responsibility for the “Hotivski” agricombs. Ms. SLABENKA to the Prime Minister on the case of adoption of children, the handover of legal documents to U.S. citizens and the return of children to Ukraine. Mr. Mikhail VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Transport and Liaison on the Legality of the appointment of additional passenger trains for the removal of passengers from the Donetsk region to the city of Kiev and western areas of Ukraine on the eve of the election of the President of Ukraine. Mr. Bulby to the Prime Minister for an inappropriate response to an open appeal to the President and Prime Minister of the group of geodesists-doctors and candidates for science on the necessity of repealing the Presidential Decree and the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers that led to the liquidation of the State Geodesy Service, Cartography Petra TLOČKA to the Prime Minister regarding the granting of the territory of the “Thy Bay” to the Crimea of the status of a natural-command fund of national importance. Cartography and cadastre have begun to destroy the geodetic sector. Petra TLOČKA to the Prime Minister regarding the granting of the territory of the “Thy Bay” to the Crimea of the status of a natural-command fund of national importance. Anatolia Seminoga to the Prime Minister for the installation of traffic lights on the street of the Coastal Lugova in Kiev. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Romana ZVARIĆA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Transport and Communications concerning the financing of road repairs and bridge construction in the region of Ivano-Frankov and road construction through the Tarnočka Pass. Georgia BUYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of office and the integration into a corrupt group of members of the internal affairs and prosecutor's offices of Kiev with corrupt groups of citizens on family and other principles. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Attorney-General for unlawful interference in the activities of the National Journal, the magazine “Ukraine”, the editor of which is the collective enterprise “Edition of the magazine “Ukraine”. [[CARMASINE, SENEMINE, MANCHULENCO, AND OTHERS Total 16 deputies]] Mr. Mikli, Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, on the elimination of a catastrophic situation in the financing of Czernigova medical facilities. Anatoly by ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on the improper response of the authorities to the citizens' request for confirmation of the status of persons pursuant to article 7, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the protection of the constitutional rights of the resident of Dnipropetrovska [[FOOD, KZLOVSKI, CHEVCHIEKA, AND OTHERS Total 12 deputies]] Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney-General for the payment of arrears on salary since 2001 for the employees of the Svalava Forest Union of the Zakarpat region. Mikhail POLANČIĆA to the Attorney General on the signs of the criminal nature of the private enterprise Mercuriy-Invest in the calculation of the non-delivery of mineral goods to the company “Fortun” of the Curtkow region of the Ternopil region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the Offences of the Mikolai District Police, led by General Guzzol, who pose a threat to Ukraine's national security. [[(Signed) Shirko, ALEXIUM, ALLOSHIN, RIBIKIN]] Vladimir ZUBANOV to the Attorney General regarding the damage to the State by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the prosecution of those responsible. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine by individual officials of the Visniki District State Administration of the Montenegrin Region. Mr Tomenka to the Attorney-General on the legality of the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the “Era” television company. RAISES OF HENRY to the Attorney-General for ignoring parliamentary appeals about violations of legislation by the Ministry of Health in the field of public procurement of medicines in the implementation of the “Oncology 2002-2006” programme. MICHELLA RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the criminalization of officials responsible for listing the voters of the city of Chernigov and the region of Chernigiv. BORIS OF THE UNBALL to the Attorney General regarding the delay in the transmission of the material of the cassation complaint to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the seizure of foreign property through fraud, abuse of power, corruption by the adviser to the Chief Executive of Ukraine Kozlenka. Mr Derkača to the Attorney-General on the implementation by the Attorney-General of a political order aimed at obstructing the activities of journalists of the radio company “Era” and “Radio Era” and conscious actions to violate the constitutional rights of citizens to obtain information and freedom of speech. BORISS OF THE UNREPLE to the Attorney General regarding the failure to provide a citizen with documents to recalculate his pension. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence committed by the Head of the District Electoral Commission No. 44 of Sumi District Electoral District No.160, Natalija Shapolova. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the abuse of office and the integration into a corrupt group of some internal affairs officials and the prosecutor’s office in Kiev, with corrupt groups of citizens on family and other principles. Jury KARMAZIN to the Attorney General, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges on the verification of the unlawful occupation by Volodymyr Jaroshenko of the post of head of the Kirov district court of Kirovgrad and the commission of numerous abuses of power. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General for refusing to respond to a request for criminal liability of the management of “Inter” and “Inter-OPT” companies for deliberately avoiding paying the salaries of the seasonal workers, residents of the village of Kalina Zakarta. SLABENKA to the First Deputy Attorney General of Kudravtsev on violations in the formation of regional grain resources in 2003 in the Volinsk region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the payment of compensation for the loss of disability in employment. John YVANCHO to the Ministry of Education and Science for the mistrust of the school team of the director of the Varyev Public Education School in the Zacarpathian Region. MICILI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the issue of custody. Mikhail POLANČIĆA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the Covering of Fraud by Formal Limb on the evidence of the criminal nature of the private enterprise Mercuriy-Invest in the calculation of the non-delivery of mineral goods to the company “Fortun” of the Chortkow region of the Ternopil region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health regarding the allocation of a car for rapid medical care to the Tobacco District Hospital in the area of Zidomir. JOHN’S STATION to the Ministry of Family, Children and Young People About the Social and Economic Situation of the Youth Guard Children’s Centre in Odessa. John YVANCHO to the Ministry of Education and Science on financial assistance for the vocational training of the rural student youth of Rakhovščina. MIKOLI SULGA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the subject of gravity when dealing with the issue of granting Ukrainian citizenship. MICILI NOČENKA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for the uncontrolled reforestation of arable land in the Mid-Budsky and the area of the Sumilian region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the award of a bus to the Motovilian School of Public Education in the province of Lubar. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Minister of Defence on the legality of the transfer of the military town in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, Prikarpatska Financial Corporation, and the failure to respond to the parliamentary request for the transfer of these premises and the failure to receive an answer to the parliamentary request for the transfer of these premises to the Příkarpatá Military List. Anatholic to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the implementation of the State Program for Computerization of Rural Schools. Georgia BUYKA to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Court of Appeal, the Head of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev concerning the violation of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens and the admission of acts undermining the title of Judge of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court on the legality of the actions of the judge of the Kirov district court in the city of Kirovgrad in the handling of complaints of cassation. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the Pension Fund, the Minister of Justice, for the examination of the facts of the offences during the execution of the judicial decision. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija Samoplavski, head of the State Property Fund, to resolve the remaining part of the unfinished construction of the distillery of the Zirnen Alcohol Plant in the district of the Rhine region. Ms. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the Head of the Court of Appeal, the Head of the Council of Judges, the Head of the Pecher District Court of Kiev regarding the violation of the oath of a judge and the admission of actions that violate the title of Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the impossibility of being in office as Head of the territorial election committee for the territorial constituency No. 138 in Odessa Svetlana Ruban in connection with the admission of violations of electoral legislation established by the Abolition of the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region. A group of people’s deputies to the district heads of Kiev’s councils and district public administrations for the violation of the electoral rights of citizens during the 2004 presidential elections in Kiev for the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities of district heads in Kiev for ensuring the authenticity of the voter lists. [[BONDARENKO, LABEDIV, SLEEP, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Head of State Security for providing the Administration with information on the state and actual number of employees for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Victor TEREN to Attorney General Vasiliev on the violation of a criminal case for gross violation of the President of Ukraine Election Act at Suma Agrarian University Ms Sergia SLAUTA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics for Slauti to refer members of the Volin Regional Council. A group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Vasiliev, on the use of response measures to the employees of the Bilopil District Prosecutor's Office of the Suma Region for improper response to the statements made by members of the electoral process, the misuse of the use and the floor of the electoral documents, the miscalculation of the votes and the announcement of the results of the election by members of the electoral boards No. 4 and No. 140 of the territorial constituency No. 161 of the Suma District, drawing the guilty persons to criminal responsibility. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation and judicial review of the materials of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. [[Colonyari, Shurma, Gorlov, Remaruk, Alexiev and others]] Thus, the honourable colleagues, 55 MPs asked, according to the factions: "Our Ukraine" - 21, the Communist faction - 10, the Ukrainian regions - 3, "The only Ukraine - 4, "Trudova Ukraine " - 2, the national agrarian - 1, the Socialist Party - 5, the Tymoshenko - 5, the Center - 3, the non-fractional - 3. Yes, on the table is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performances: Alexander Stoyan, the faction of the region of Ukraine, prepare for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u2	Alexander Stoyan, Head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen of the nation, the citizens of Ukraine, yesterday, during the rounding of one of the issues, a distinguished colleague of ours, from our country, said that we didn't need to raise pensions for our pensioners because they could now buy a smaller hall. I have a card signed by a group of deputies from "Our Ukraine" who was thrown into every box, and they also say that it's bad, that the Yanukovich government has increased the pensions of our least protected population, and I want to say, it's cynicism of those people who are going to power today, and there's nothing they can do for our pensioners. This, you know, such calls say that people are in advance exempting themselves from the commitments made by the Yanukovich government to the least protected citizens of Ukraine, to our pensioners. Next. Yesterday a well-known lawyer, who is constantly speaking, when discussing helping families with children, also said that helping families with children would be a presidential decree from "Our Ukraine" up to 8,100 bracelets. I want a respected lawyer to know that the President’s decree does not set out to help families with children, but rather the decision of the Supreme Council. This is the first time. It's different. Money. Dear Mr. Carmazin, don't disturb me. I never interfere with you when you speak. Could you give me half a minute, please? I'd like to tell a respected lawyer that there's no order. This is the first time. It's different. It's not state funds, and neither the President nor the government can afford this aid, it's the State Social Insurance Fund's funds. And if this cost is, really, 8,000, then we can't pay the hospital or the funeral or the healing. So this is purest populism. I have a question from here. Now, you're saying there's no pension money in Yanukovic's government, and at the same time, your candidate calls it a pension of 400 euros. It is clear what the pension will be and what will be with it. So I urge Ukrainian citizens not to believe this lie, I say this as the head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. It's a lie. People will receive a normal pension from the government of Yanukovich. There's money for that. Families will receive normal help, and this will be done, for the government of Yanukovich makes it a work, not a word. By the way, our Ukraine hasn't asked a single social question in two years. And that was the motive why I got out of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u3	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, our constituencies. First of all, what I want to say is that the predictions of some political scientists and presidential candidates, that Ukraine will be divided into East and West in those who speak Russian and those who speak Ukrainian, have absolutely failed. Because in the pre-election period, I had to go to 13 areas of Ukraine. I am absolutely convinced that these people in the eastern regions that speak Ukrainian are very often more patriotic than those who have Ukrainian surnames, every Korchi, Boychuks, every enki, Yuki, and Russian-speaking Ukrainian citizens are the true patriots of our country. In fact, Ukraine was divided into regions where the bandits were working together with the militia and where the authorities and the militia stood on the watch of the law. I had to meet with many district and district officials. And even after the election, I thanked them, including the letters in writing for standing, not on one side, but on the other side of the law. This is, I think, the greatest achievement of Ukraine that we have. Meanwhile, the Attorney General's Office has opened criminal cases in those areas, particularly in my native Rozhnetovsky district, 133 polling stations, where there are allegedly violations and there are no violent gang acts, such as in the Donetsk region, where both the bandits and the militia acted for one thing. And the last. I'm not going to analyze the moral condition of the second issue of "Our Ukraine," but I would like to refer to our voters, if you don't think that this person is defaming the honor and dignity of his own, because if Victor Yushchenko was the first person on our list, and the second person on our list was Stoyan, what is the face.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u5	Yes, Michaela Chechel, please, the faction of our Ukraine. None. Instead of Michael Melniczuk, Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please. So let us go to the rostrum, your esteemed colleagues, so that the Ukrainian people may see you, or they may all hide. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. On behalf of the faction today and on behalf of many deputies, I want to express my deep concern and regret about yesterday's vote for overcoming the presidential veto for the Law to support the higher school. We got 288 votes for yesterday, we broke this law, surprisingly, factions like SDPU, Hard Ukraine and Regions. These are the ones who today declare the support of our education. These are the ones who are speaking today about supporting higher school and science. The law provided State support to universities, allowed for lower fees for education and allowed universities today to receive an additional half-billion dollars that could be spent on lowering salaries for education, on social protection of students, on updating material bases and so on, because in the cost structure of Ukrainian institutions, the share of paid education is, I repeat, 55 percent while in private U.S. only 30. And let's say FRAN, Sweden, Finland, and so on, France, they practically have no pay for learning. And that's why I want to say that we're deeply concerned about this. And I urge you to go back to this law. And I ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to publish a list of deputies who voted against or did not support it. And I want to inform the entire public, all the voters, all the Ukrainian citizens, first of all the academics and scientists, of what was created in Ukraine by the public council of education and scientists of Ukraine, an orgcommittee. This orgcommittee plans to hold on December 18 in Kiev a meeting of the Public Council of Education and Scientists of Ukraine. It was attended by representatives of the Academy of Sciences, the National Academy, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, higher school staff, secondary school staff, extra-school institutions, pre-school, vocational and technical education, and professional organizations. And so I invite the Ukrainian National Deputies, I invite everyone who cares about Ukraine's education, the future of our state, the future of our children, to join the public council of education and scientists in Ukraine. The main purpose of this organization is to support education and science, this is to implement the Constitution of Ukraine, this is to implement the laws of Ukraine, this is social protection of education and scientists, this is social protection of students, children, teachers, this is the innovative development of Ukraine, the development of Ukraine, not on the basis of the extensive use of resources and raw materials as it is today, but on the basis of the use of the intelligence of the Ukrainian nation. I call on you to participate in the Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u7	Basil Nadrag, Union MP, prepare Ivchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 42 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the State must protect the rights of consumers, monitor the quality and safety of products of all types of goods and services and promote the activities of public consumer organizations. This thesis has received quite an interesting and constructive continuation in the past two years. First, I would like to say that, to date, the Supreme Council has taken a number of concrete steps in its legislation. In particular, the law on metrology and metrology has been amended, and the law on advertising has been amended. In addition, a new version of consumer rights and general product safety laws is being considered and being drafted today. I must say that today we have about 30 legal acts that in some way provide technical regulation for the protection of consumer rights. I don't think there's any point in talking about how important this is, I'm just going to give you a number. Some 11,000 people die every year in Ukraine from bad alcohol. Accordingly, it is possible to speak of another - how the quality of products consumed by our population is in line with the standards. We're only here at the beginning of the journey. Well, let me give you an example. During 2003, we harmonized, i.e. we brought Ukrainian standards into line with international order 500, and this year we expect about 700 standards, and we will begin to meet international measures. And that's normal. I want to say that there is also a public movement in this regard, in particular: we have a Union of Ukrainian Consumers as a public organization and in Ukraine. I must say that we, as deputies, should not stay away, and, in particular, today 34 deputies have become initiators of the Supreme Council Rules of Interfractional Union of Consumer Protection. This association has been formalized. It does not imply leaving party factions and other parliamentary groups, as interfractional association implies the integration of MPs into a particular problem. This problem is the protection of the rights of consumers and the protection of our people against quality goods and services. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I invite all the participants, all the deputies present in the Hall, to participate in the interfractional association of members of the “Protection of Consumers”. This material, specifically through your assistants, through the secretariats of your factions, groups, and committees, will be brought to you. It is a great request to all, without exception: to learn about these documents and to draw conclusions and, accordingly, to work in an interfractional association of MPs, which is outside the policy, outside the parties, to protect the rights of our consumers, our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u9	Ivchenko, faction of our Ukraine. Where's Yvchenko? Please pass it on to Tomenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u10	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear friends, dear colleagues! I wanted to mention one wisdom here, in fact, in all times feared not the enemies, but most feared the traitors. Well, I would like this wisdom so that many people in this room will remember and not forget their speaking and glamorous speeches, and I would like to say that the tragedy of today’s electoral campaign country is not to be bullied by the economy and the Ukrainian people, even if the cost of this abuse is to be preserved in power. At the same time as November 1st, we can't give a supplement to the prosecutor’s office, the judges, and the militia who abused the people during the elections by 28 percent, and at the same time raise prices for the common people. One can’t give a month’s allowance to pensioners and raise the price of food products that will devastate these pockets. Maybe that's why this fantastic discrepancy between promises and real things is making us feel a little bit out of the ordinary right now. For six months, we heard of a courageous, strong and courageous man named Viktor Janukovic, who said that in the second round he would throw everything and come to an honest fight, open-air television debate and tell the Ukrainian people everything he thought. He'll tell you where he disappeared five years from his official biography and what he did in different areas and prison walls. He's going to say whether he has one education or not, because we haven't seen a single report about high school or what kind of higher education he's finished on a regular basis. It's not casual, it's stationary. We'll find out why he didn't serve in the army. We will learn many other interesting things that the Ukrainian people want to hear. What do we hear? He says, "I'm offended, I've been accused by various political forces, and I won't come to the debate in protest." Dear friends! It's not a toy. My colleagues in the Viktor Yanukovich faction voted in 400 votes to make the debate mandatory. My colleague I call everyone who's sitting here in the session room because I think we're all doing one thing. The law obliges us to share in the debate. If a person develops a temporary collapsing condition, it should be explained that according to health conditions, for example, someone cannot participate in direct television debates. If it is simply a fear of telling people the truth and of meeting your opponent in a fair fight, it must be said, not some misunderstanding. I'm convinced that the dirt and lying that came from the TV channels about Victor Yushchenk could be stopped by honest TV on the second round. And I say again, we're waiting and we're convinced that the courage of Yanukovich is enough to go on television.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u11	Taras Cranville, Center Group. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! I want to start by saying that I really want to thank the Ukrainian people, who proved wise enough to do all the hysteria, all the stress and all the oppression not to go out on the actions that had previously called on them, who could have been used by those who were interested in the President's election in Ukraine just not going to happen, who is afraid of both Yanukovich and Yushchenka in the same way and wants to do their third scenario. I thank these people who have had enough political courage. There's one more thing I'd like to ask you. Those who today insist that they represent morality, honesty, and truth should probably start with themselves, must be the first to scrupulously abide by the laws, and must first abandon double morality. The parable in the tongues was already voted in Western Ukraine, which is told everywhere, what a hundred percent of Yushchenka’s support is there. I want to remind you of the situation when, during the 2000 referendum, the same people claimed that more than half of every village, that whole neighborhoods of half the people went abroad and that they had to look for their bitter piece of bread and that they were not in Ukraine, and that the authorities had falsified the elections. Now they're back or something. [[Carmazine, shut up, I'll never interrupt you.]] Now you think the authorities are guilty, and now that you've managed to use these people's passports and vote for them, these people are no longer abroad, you're calling off your accusations to the authorities that the authorities have thrown these people out on bitter bread abroad. Let us certainly begin with such a morality. The charge is that Yanukovich is the authority, and he's guilty of everything. You know, I have a lot of claims to this power and to the murder of my father, Viacheslav Crnovola, and for so many things, and for the things that are being created today in Ukraine. But now I also want to ask a question. When Yushchenko was Prime Minister and George Gongadze was killed, it's power, yes, I agree. When students were arrested in 2001, yes, the authorities, I agree. But when all of a sudden payments were made, when the debts returned, it was Yushchenko himself. Now that there are actions that don't adorn power, yes, there are both authorities and Janukovich. Then let's go to the authorities and to the candidates with the same standards, let's blame our opponent, blame ourselves a little bit. And for the rest. I absolutely agree with the words of Michael Kosev: thank God, Ukraine has not split. And don't bother Ukraine. And what you can read in a lot of newspapers today that support the quasi-opposition, because I don't call it opposition, it's about the division of Ukraine. And the incident that took place in Ivano-Frankivsk was in vain right in Ivano-Frankivsk. To cause a negative somewhere in the east and to break Ukraine again. Have a mind and do not do evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u13	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Leschenko. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u14	Dear national deputies, guests, and radio listeners. Lately, during the election campaign, I have had to travel through many villages in the Poltava region, and, in fact, when you are here in Kiev, here in Gruszewski or in Bankow, you may not see this whole trouble, this whole mess that was caused by this reform, which is being carried out by today's authorities, and those who are in power, because they have all contributed to the name of that state of affairs being in the village. Collective enterprises are completely destroyed, animals are practically destroyed, in most villages of Kozelščinski Novosanjarski, Globin district, people just say, well, they don't know what to do anymore. Schools were closed, medical stations were not burned down, and parents needed to pay extra money to take their children to another village to school. They can't handle it, so they asked me to hand it over, and today Nikolainko talks about it saying that we need to support both higher school and school, and we're looking at how their schools voted, how the heads of these institutions were pushed to vote for who the students were voting for. And we see how that power reacts to all of these actions. I'd like to give you a few examples: here's the Iskra Farm Society of the Orgitsky region, asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, asked the Head of State: don't take the cattle from these people, because it's in two banks, even, make some other deposits there to keep the cattle. All I asked was that the second day they came and unloaded all the cattle, the bank took them away. People tell me that valuable cows have taken and driven -- that's not how the Mongol Tatars behaved, they tell me how these bankers or today's authorities work. But I would like, in turn, to say hello to Catherine Timothy Vaschuk and to Leonid Danilovich Kuchma from the people of the village of Mangelia Globin district, where you were, where you were the pioneers of the reforms about these and now it's all ruined. You promised Catherine Timothy four years ago that two years later people would live better. They asked you to come and help because it is impossible to live there anymore. I'm in a political sense, and I'm glad you brought that up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u15	Can I have the Communist faction, please? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u16	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. On November 7, Ukrainian workers, like all progressive mankind, celebrate the 87th anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. This epoch was a turning point in liberating the oppressed, achieving broad social rights and guarantees. Welcomed by the faction of Communists of all Ukrainian citizens with this festival, I wish as quickly as possible the victory of the workers in the fight against the Ukrainian bourgeois clans. Thank you for your attention. And the rest of the time, I'm asking you to hand over the national MP Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. Yesterday was the plenary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine. On the day-to-day basis, the political summaries of the election of the President of Ukraine were discussed. As stressed by the participants in the plenary, which began work on the election summary, the voters were forced to make an unalterable choice long before the vote. The Communists went to the open dialogue and went to the dismemberment of the oligarchic clans. In addition, it has been pointed out that the process is being completed when politicians are criminalized and crime is politicized. This process has given the "appropriate" result of the election. The plenary has decided virtually unanimously and believes that the support for the re-election of the President of Ukraine in the second round of elections of any candidate who is a eloquent and continuing the course of today's anti-national regime is unacceptable. Both of them. At the same time, it has been decided that our representatives in the election committees remain with a view to allowing the electorate to make free will. The other one. At the same time, in further activities, the party leaves the right to dialogue with those political forces who are willing to conduct it on matters that are in the interests of the working people. The 2004 elections, noted Communist leader Peter Simonenko, demonstrated that this time the election as such could not be made by the people of Ukraine. On October 31, Ukraine received, not the results of its choice, but the results of its dirty technologies. At the same time, there must be undeniable support in the community of the left - hand idea as such, which was used cynically by representatives of the oligarchic clans. We urge the people of Ukraine to finally realize that they have been deceived one more time. The first fraud took place on December 1, 1991, and now it is the second, or mad one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u18	Yes, Valery Mishur, please. Mishur's gone. Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić. I see he's passing it on to Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The assumption that today’s presidential election left someone in Kirovgrad uncaring would be a huge mistake. They were the most criminal, cruelest, most valuable in view of the massive violations of electoral legislation at polling stations and the falsification of voting results are all reasons to deny the elections in Kirovograd. For example, 38 polling stations with large delays began voting. This was explained by the decision of the territorial electoral commission to withdraw more than 150 members from the commission and mostly from Communists and Socialists. On election day, 10 polling stations were destroyed in Kirovograd. What happened to the voters ’ lists? The name, name, and father were twisted, and the year of birth did not correspond to reality. And these people were sent home with passports because of the fault of the salesmen who received large sums of money for the mistakes they made, their data did not match the figures on the voters ’ lists. Only the Kirov District Court accepted more than 200 applications for the satisfaction of the voter’s participation in the vote. But most of them did not get the right to participate in the elections, and housing, neighborhoods, were missed on the voters' lists. However, lists of long - dead and newborns are included. In Kirovograd, more than 59,000 voters were unable to vote. There has never been such a crime in all the history of Ukraine. And there is no extreme, there is no one to be held accountable for this act against the people. It is not enough that this people are humiliated, constantly enduring abuse of power, and even on election day they are unable to demonstrate their will peacefully. When was it for the voters' lists to form the heads of quarterly committees and senior houses? And that's exactly what happened in Kirovgrad. And where was it issued that members of election committees or observers should be under the age of 17? How many can we talk about strengthening gifts? In Kirovgrad, a large number of buses with electorates have been taking courses in polling stations with resilient coupons, and this has been taken for granted. And these are, as always, minor errors. But for such irresponsibility, ignoring electoral and constitutional law, all those who attached their hand to such "honest and transparent" in their paws and elections in Ukraine should be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u20	Microphone, please. No, no, respectable colleagues! Catherine’s microphone Timofievni Vaszczuk was used for replication, as Masenko’s last name was mentioned. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was no name mentioned. No, I mentioned it. Once in a while, you can exchange lines. Calm down, please. Vaschuk microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not to mention your last name, not to mention. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u21	Katerina Vaschuk. Dear fellows, our listeners! At any rate, National Deputy Masenko, in order not to report his work as a national deputy to any given, established, passed laws, or long-distance interests, as he himself said, instead of defending the peasants, not letting the bank rob them, stand up, stand up for that livestock before the performing service, yelling at them the easiest way to say it. It's the style of the people's deputy! I'm just ashamed that you're today under the name of the faction in which you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I'll do it again. You named it after me. This is the way to exchange lines endlessly. Please! I say again, you called -- and you were called! Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Well, you can't! Well, now you're going to be on the other side of the line again. You can trade once. Well, calm down! A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on maritime shipping is under review. Please, Lundishev Viktor Mikolaiovich. Get ready from the committee. Please, very briefly. If there is a warning, we will discuss it. We don't have a vote. What procedure? Well, now there's a question, then you say. I don't know what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on Maritime Merchandise. The bill is designed by the Mintras to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the internal procedure necessary for the effectiveness of the agreement. The effectiveness of the agreement will have positive economic consequences associated with free access to ports, their use, landing and landing, normal commercial operations, and the use of all seafaring services, as well as the payment of port congregations and services. The draft law is accepted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine without any comments and by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine with observations taken into account. The effectiveness of the agreement will contribute to the inclusion of additional volumes of transport, including transit areas in Ukraine’s further development of interstate and business ties. The implementation of the treaty does not require material and other additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The draft law is in line with the profile committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Construction, Transport and Housing and Communications, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on European Integration. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u24	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Oleg Grachev Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! The committee considered the bill and approved its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This agreement was signed on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 10 November last year in Ljubljana as Ukraine’s first Deputy Minister of Transport, Volodymyr Kornienko. The purpose of the bill is to create favourable conditions for the development of commercial shipping between Ukraine and Slovenia on equal and mutually beneficial grounds. In accordance with the said agreement, each contracting party should ensure that ships of the other party have the same treatment as their own vessels with regard to free access to ports, the use of ports for loading and unloading, landing and landing of passengers, normal commercial operations and the use of navigation services. As well as the payments of port congregations and assemblies. Ratification of the agreement will help to strengthen relations in the area of commercial shipping and in general bilateral interstate relations between Ukraine and Slovenia. The implementation of the treaty will not require additional material and other costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications and on European Integration, support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Do we need to discuss this document? If they insist on discussing what I can do. Mironenko, Carmazin, Solomatine, Shibko, School. Let's take five or six minutes. Will you be performing? Victor Mironenko refuses. Please, Yuri Carmazin. And then we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u27	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Any draft law on ratification is the same draft law as everyone else and requires the same procedure. I'm drawing your attention. Why? Because they don't pay any attention to what documents are being ratified. And now, after the next agreement, you'll see what they've done. You'll see how many millions of nations have lost ours, in dollars I say. Well, that's the deal. This agreement is in line with national interests, but it says that in the case of any differences in interpretation, the English text is given the advantage. Is this in harmony with world practice? I'll explain. Never did fit the practice. to the world. According to article 33 of the Vienna Convention, if the authenticities of the text of the treaty are established in two or several languages, its text has the same force in each language, I stress that if the treaty is not provided or the parties have not agreed that if the difference between these tests, the majority of the text will have the same effect. In our case, there is no interpretation text available in English among the documents available for consideration, which makes it impossible to compare the English text with the English text in the event of such a need. And in general, once we've moved away from the value chain, are we going to translate into some other language? Of course, we had to listen to the Committee on European Integration, and we have the Committee of Tarasyuk, who proposes a completely different edition, and they suggest that we write it this way: The Supreme Council decides to accept the obligation of Ukraine. the ratification, ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Maritime Trade Shipbuilding signed by the mission in Ljubljana on 10 November 2003. And in the end, you didn't let me talk to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I'd like to say, on behalf of the two Judes, that today's performances are not just about the faction of our Ukraine, not just about me personally, but about the entire Ukrainian people who are being betrayed by the transition to the governing, anti-national factions. And the betrayed people, because they deceived people, using completely different slogans, voted in favour of the people in a completely different way. So challenged by my report that Victor Yushchenko would provide 8,432 bracelets at birth, and he was entitled yesterday, he would secure it, I answer, and yesterday the government had its office to bribe judges and prosecutors when it was written in the Constitution that it was only established by law? Everybody knows that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the document has been discussed. I would like to inform you that there is a positive conclusion from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was published by the First Deputy Head of the Committee, the positive conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Budget Committee, the Committee on Transport and Communications, and the Committee on European Integration. And so we have every reason to put this question to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, let's vote ratification. I'm asking for a vote, a ratification, a vote on the ratification documents. A motion for approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on maritime shipping is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:58:54]] For 296 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Cessation of the Agreement on the Establishment of an Inter-State European-Asian Coal and Metal Union since 24 September 1993, registration number 0213, is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Makuh Vladimir Alexiyovich. Please. Out of procedure, please, Mastermaster. The Master's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs, distinguished TV listeners. I address you first. I don't get it, and people keep talking to me and saying the following, that our regular speakers of the Supreme Council are saying the same thing, they're speaking out against some law, and we're voting for it. So I'm informing you and I'm addressing you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you people's deputies. Let's take into account my and Matthew's proposals for changing the record to a performance. Today, it is not possible to sign up for a speech and to stand up for a certain rule of law. And today, the state-of-the-art vocabularies of the Supreme Council have mastered that rostrum and turned the Supreme Council into some sort of mockery. Let us pay attention to this problem. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u30	I'm asking the regulatory committee to give the opinion on the draft order that was proposed. I'd like not to use such words as "smile." The Supreme Council is a representative body of the people, it's a people. If we're saying that the Supreme Council is a mockery, then the Ukrainian people are also, you can say that it will be a mockery. Let us not humiliate ourselves. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Protocol on the Cessation of the Agreement on the Establishment of an Interstate European-Asian Coal and Metal Union. The protocol was signed in Yalta on September 19, 2003, at a meeting of the SND Council of Heads of State. The need for its signature was prompted by a decision of the SND Council of Heads of State of State of October 7, 2002 on the elimination of the Interstate European-Asian Coal and Metal Union. According to this decision, the work of this union has ceased due to the unintendedness and unpredictability of maintaining the body, its inactivity, and its financial abuse of its leaders. This position was maintained by all without exception the State, the members of the Society who formed that body. The ratification of a protocol on the termination of the Agreement on the Establishment of an Interstate European-Asian Coal and Metal Union will allow the legal determination of Ukraine's position on its elimination. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, agreed with all interested authorities of Ukraine and approved at meetings of the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The elimination of the International European-Asian Coal and Metal Union will not lead to changes in the current legislation of Ukraine, will not result in material and other expenditures of Ukraine, nor will it require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The liquidation of this structure will have no negative consequences for Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u32	Please sign up for the question. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question. Then there's Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u33	Dear report, in the formulation of the need for ratification, there is a rather interesting wording. According to this decision, the organization’s activities were to be halted in view of the unintendedness and unpredictability of retention, inactivity, and financial abuse. Do you have the information that financial abuse is involved, and who is responsible for it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u34	Answer right away? On December 15, 2000, the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States decided on the results of the audit of the financial and economic activities of this association. According to this decision, a number of serious weaknesses and irregularities have been identified in financing, cash and bank transactions, accounting, salaries of officials, transportation services and other violations. In general, it is about an untargeted use by the executive branch of this compound of about 150,000. Russian rubles.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u35	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u36	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u37	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u38	A fellow official concludes that the draft law contains this observation: at the same time, the bill does not contain the signatures of the authorized persons of the relevant authorities of the Ukrainian executive branch regarding its acceptance, nor does it contain the wording for the Supreme Council to give consent to its responsibilities for Ukraine, the permanent requirements of the committee. Please tell us why this happened, and is this not a warning or even a ban on further consideration of the bill? [[and this is the conclusion of the secretariat of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u39	Indeed, such a proposal was made at the European Integration Committee. And I take it this is already a matter of the secretariat that should have made further changes, appropriate adjustments to the text of the materials that were given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u40	Yes, Stanislaw Nikolainka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u41	Nikolainka, a faction of socialists. Please give the word to your colleague after the faction Alexander Petrovich Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u42	Alexander Baranowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u43	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, Vladimir Alexiyovich, I find it painful to listen to your answers, you see us as some sort of child here who doesn't understand what you're talking about, telling the story that 150,000 rubles were untargeted. But we have millions of dollars today, and no one's asking. You have the answer, please, who initiated the entry of Ukraine into this organization, which has suffered damage to Ukraine from such entry, who is initiating the exit today, who has been placed, who has been released from work, including your revenge, if you are accompanying such a decision. Then give the Supreme Council a specific answer, and do not tell us stories about 150,000 Russian rubles of untargeted use.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u44	Answer. That's right. When this merger was created, it was decided on the contribution of the participating countries. Sad to say, during the whole period of union, contributions were made on a case - by - case basis. From Ukraine during these years from 1994 to 2000, when a decision on the need to eliminate this merger was made, no contribution was made, and Ukraine did not make a single donation to the organization’s budget. Over the years, I can only say that in 1994 only Russia, in 1995 -- only Russia, in 1996 -- Belarus and Georgia, in 1997 -- only Belarus, in 1998 -- Belarus and Uzbekistan, in 1999 and 2000 -- only Kazakhstan. Ukraine did not make a single penny.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u45	Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, please. Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev is the first deputy head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol, on the termination of the agreement on the establishment of an inter-State coal and metal union since 24 September 1993, was discussed at a committee meeting and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As has already been said, the protocol mentioned in Ukraine was signed on September 19, last year in Yalta, Ukraine’s president Kuchma at the summit. The ratification of the agreement will make it possible to legally establish Ukraine’s position on the liquidation of the merger. The implementation of the Treaty does not provide for additional costs from the Ukrainian State Budget, does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, does not require the adoption of new laws or changes to the current legislation of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, approved: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill. Please support the Committee's decision on foreign matters. And I can't help but react to this, so to speak, riot that happens between the representatives of our Ukraine and the factions who accuse each other of treason. I wanted to remind you that both of them in their time were members of the Communist Party and betrayed her. So we don't have to be more holy now, as it were, to the Pope of Rome. And you still have a chance to rehabilitate yourself: to participate in the seventh of November in a demonstration that will begin at 10 hours from the Arsenal Metro. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Let's talk about this document for 10 minutes. Mironenko. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u48	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The company will support ratification of this protocol. But I want to draw attention to the following. The agreement was signed on 19 September 2003, I beg your pardon, 1993 and the agreement was silent on 19 September 2003. And immediately questions arose as to what kind of money was spent there and so forth. They would be concerned about why this international association did not work. It didn't bother me. For every reasonable person understands that integration is a great thing for the economy, for the people. No, we're not worried. The question of money was asked, and immediately they passed because nothing in Ukraine's habit of pro-American policies paid for nothing traditionally in the CIS or in this association. And what, then, do we, the distinguished people's deputies, the legislators, the distinguished Government and the President, the people of Ukraine, expect from such agreements when we, by signing, do not comply with these agreements? It's got to bother us. Second. The documents have been signed and documents for the creation of a single economic space are being prepared. Well, positions can be different. If, let's say, "Our Ukraine", "Batkivščina" and the Socialist Party did not vote for the creation of a single economic space. I don't want to say that they're expressing the interests of the United States, but they've brought the interests of the United States and these factions together, because the United States doesn't want to create a single economic space in the former Union, because there might be a little bit of competition and some more powerful position in defending their interests. Note Paul’s example, and on many other problems, the United States constantly pressures us and we give up because we are weak. I wish to address the people of Ukraine. In the future, you will see the position of every so-called popular elector. And if one president is elected, let him keep his pre-election promises when he speaks of a single economic space. Only the communists have spoken and will strongly insist that when any President is elected we will demand the integration of the economies of our brotherly States because this will help to restore profitable economic ties, to improve the standard of living of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u49	Eugene Gorenik. Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u50	Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Indeed, an interesting question was raised here, Why did this Agreement on the Creation of a Coal and Metal Union not work, and why were they not interested? But they were interested, and they even showed some financial abuse. It didn't work because you just can't cross a snake with a hedgehog. If anyone thinks that Russians are going to be be benefactors, that instead of using Donba's coal, they're making a big mistake or they're just lying to the people of Ukraine. And they're lying about this dual citizenship that they're talking about right now. Even the president of Belarus, Lukashenko, who reads the websites, has reported today that he is doubtful and is of no use to Belarus as a dual citizen. Isn't it clear that this is the pre-election of such a pianist move. So today, as we celebrate the body of a stillborn child of coal and metal union, we have to remember Ostap Bender, his union of swords and eagles, and solemnly bury all these problems and not do what we don't have to do. Dealing with things that are convenient for our state, interstate relations with Russia, Belarus, Poland, and the United States in terms that are convenient, not falling into all the epistles. Ratification supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! What we are considering today shows that history teaches us that there is nothing to be taught by the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Cessation of the Agreement on the Establishment of an Inter-State Eurasian Coal and Metal Union since September 24, 93, I stress. Today, October 5, 2004, almost two years ago in Chisinau on October 7, 2002, the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States reviewed the decisions of the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States on a draft decision by the Heads of State of the SND on the inter-State Eurasian Coal and Metal Union. But the project was designed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only to carry out the government’s mandate, which was given only on December 12, 2003. According to the Ministry of Justice, this decision was intended to put an end to the activity because of the unintendedness, the unpredictability of keeping the body inactive, and the financial abuse. This was supported by all of them from this point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that as the European Union was formed, it started in 1951 with the signing of the Agreement on the European Coal and Steel Society. Yeah, yeah. It is a similar union, only in other countries. During the debate on the EP, we were told and told here that this is related to the image of the European Union, such as the European Coal and Steel Society. Well, the elimination of the interstate Eurasian coal and metal union is a kind of confirmation of our right not to need such a quasi-creation as the EP and you're confirming it today. And in the end, I want to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, look at the lack of necessary signatures on documents, the translation of non-language texts in which they are mostly powerful in the event of any differences. For example, when ratifying documents in connection with joining an international convention on aviation security cooperation. There, the English version was translated instead of French. I have spoken on a number of occasions, and I have asked about the need to ensure that the Supreme Council transmits the lists and texts of valid international treaties to Ukraine as a participant in the Ukrainian language and in the languages of the other parties to these treaties, in paper and electronic form. We don't have them today. I remind myself, as well as the list of the original laws in force in Ukraine and the answer, unfortunately, from the Head of the Supreme Council, I did not receive this guidance, nor did I receive it from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In general, ratification is necessary, but conclusions are drawn as to why not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Well, one minute, please, Solomonine was written here. Well, with motive, we're going to sign up, honorary colleagues, because there's a lot of motivation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u54	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, all your time. Every phenomenon and every covenant is born, lives, dies. And now you and I are going to find that the deal that's being considered has come back to life. We have to agree with this, make the right conclusion and vote for proper ratification to take place. But one of my colleagues mentioned that it was impossible to cross a snake with a hedgehog. And I agree with that. Similarly, it is not possible to cultivate oranges in Ukraine, nor the terrain, nor the political climate. Therefore, a grant, a dollar allowance for Ukrainian oranges, will not help us to grow this foreign overseas fruit in our political territories. And the final conclusion is whether or not you should go back to the Pacific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u55	With a motive, please. I see. For reasons of Shibko, Zarubinsky and Yukhnowsky. And invite the deputies to the session room, we have to vote in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I took a special word on this issue in order to explain the situation under consideration. I wanted to say that this is what leads us to have today's outcome when we approach the conclusion of any treaties thoughtlessly. I mean, in time, someone was forced to come up with an idea to conclude this treaty. And he died a contract today. They say it's all the time. He didn't even start working. But on the other hand, today we are being accused of not voting on the EP. So I want to tell my colleagues that this also applies to the subject, that if today is not also meant to introduce the EP, what is being invented today is that, as far as our coal in Donetsk is concerned, it will be brought into Ukraine today from Karaganda, because it will be cheaper there and because this whole grant, which the EP is supposed to be, will be the same. And there's going to be coal and there's not going to be any development in Donetsk. That's what this is about. So you have to think every time you lock up. on a contract. And today's example shows that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u57	Oleg Zarubinsky, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think, speaking for reasons, I would like to say that we should vote in favour of ratifying the protocol on the termination of this agreement. Because she's dead born. And first, like the only economic space, the concept and the agreement was written in the Kremlin, and here we were offered, so it was in 1993. It was a kind of ring, right Carmazin says, about the steel and coal union. But there is a big difference. It was a union of countries with a highly efficient economy, not butaphoric democracy and real democracy. If it unites in some agreements of an economic and other nature of the country with authoritarian and semi-territorial regimes, inefficient, low-productive economy, and butaphoric democracy, we will either cancel all these agreements or end them later. As far as the only economic space is concerned, it's a complete analogy to what we're canceling today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u59	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please microphone. Please invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u60	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." The great Vladimir Mikhailovich, a coal - and - steel union in Europe, was in 1951. It has been 52 years since then. And this is not an economic issue at the moment. And even shamefully, the age when information is to be developed, and the knowledge system is to develop, is to go back to the first economic arrangement. That's not relevant. And that's why I propose to ratify.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u61	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Dear colleagues, the document has been discussed. We're going to vote now. The proposal for a committee to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Cessation of the Agreement on the Establishment of an Interstate European-Asian Coal and Metal Union since 24 September 1993 is submitted to the vote. Registration number 0213. Please vote. [[11:24:02]] For 301 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, when I made the parliamentary inquiries that came, I automatically missed one request, and now the MPs are asking me to read it. These are groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the lack of response by the Attorney-General to a criminal case and the criminalization of the candidate for the presidency, the violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the abuse of office, the obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Gregory Omelchenka, and the deliberate failure of Ukraine's Supreme Council to provide copies of judicial decisions and other documents. [[LUKYANKO, KARMAZIN, JAVOYAN, only 8 deputies]] Yes, the draft Law on the Order of Official Publication of Ukrainian Laws, other legal and regulatory acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and their taking effect. Registration number 3170. Reporter Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the draft law is designed to implement the provisions of article 57 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which laws and other legal and regulatory acts defining the rights and duties of citizens should be brought to the knowledge of the population in accordance with the order established by law. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a separate law that provides for the order of promulgation of these laws and other normative acts. Today, there is a Presidential Decree of June 10th, 97, on the order of formal publication of and effective entry into force of the regulations of the Supreme Council, Chapter 6.10 of the Supreme Council and, for the time being, applied in a part that does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the decrees of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic of 24th, 1958, on the order of publication of the laws of the Ukrainian Republic, the decrees, the decrees of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Republic and their validity. The history of this issue begins in 1996 when two important bills were drafted. The first is about laws and legislation, and the second is about legislation. Several times the President of Ukraine vetoed, made proposals, and, in fact, we do not have a law to this day. We know on the committee that the Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft law and passed it on to the Cabinet of Ministers in June this year, but unfortunately this bill has not yet submitted to the Supreme Council. The bill was introduced by national deputies David Zwania and Leonid Grac. I think so. Not my opinion, it's the committee's opinion that it's important in the first reading to adopt this bill so that if a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers comes forward, we can discuss it on the committee and then some of the most perfect could be adopted as a law. And for today, we don't have another bill than this one. You know that a lot of questions arise with time to publish laws and legislation, other normative acts when they enter into force. Thus, the adoption of this future law will enable these legal relations to be regulated. The Science and Experimental Authority supports this bill. The Cabinet of Ministers, we have the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers, also supports. We are grateful for the conclusion that was sent to us by the Chief Secretary-in-Office of the Academy of Legal Sciences, Professor of the National Law Academy of the Name Jaroslav Mudrogo, member of the Correspondent Mr. Petrisin. He also made appropriate suggestions and comments. The Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council also supports the bill. Clearly, it needs to be improved. And I think the committee is going to work on this bill for the second reading -- and we're going to put out a more perfect document to discuss the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for Vasil Vasilovich? Please sign in. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u64	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Basil Vasilovich, please tell me if you have any general information on how many legal acts the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or other central executive authorities, especially the Tax Administration, have not been published or have been published late, and there has been a situation where the taxpayers already have a base that is not yet available to taxpayers? And as we know that ignorance not only of the laws but also of the laws of others, well, of the laws of law, does not relieve responsibility. Well, please, let me know. This is the first one. And the second. Would the adoption of the bill make it impossible for such a situation to take effect when, in fact, unpublished, virtually secret normative acts take effect?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u65	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. I think that the adoption of this bill will solve these problems and the gaps that exist in our society today. I don't have accurate statistics because I'm not the author of this bill. But from the press, from the references to the Committee on Legal Policy, we see, we know that there's an enormous number of such cases, it's not a unit, it's tens, if not more. Therefore, we know that there are also secret normative acts that should not be of an appropriate nature and other acts that do not lead to society. The adoption of this law really solves these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u66	Mikhailo Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u67	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Vasil Vasilovich, I have two questions. Please tell us why the President of Ukraine imposed the veto. First. That's different. Well, if we don't have a law and the law of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic doesn't work? That's two questions. If that's a good law, how much better or worse is this new law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u68	Having read this bill, I understand that the authors have adopted, not the law, but the decree of the presidency of the Supreme Council, which I have called. And they also took the position from the President's decree of June 10, 1997. And they also took the positive things of our Rules. But that's all, you know, a few normative acts, we need to take one. With regard to the law on legislation and the legislation on which he was entitled. The President's veto, there were valuable proposals, there were valuable proposals. To some extent, the Supreme Council counted, but it was not possible to overcome the veto at that time. So we have no other way of actually bringing this bill to the discussion, and I am grateful to both Leonidas Grac, and David Zwania for having done such a great job.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u69	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the position of the government, please, on this bill. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Justice shares the need to regulate the legal relationship arising from the formal promulgation of laws and other legal acts. Along with what Vassil Vasilovich Onopenko said in his report, the Ministry of Justice has drafted a draft Law on Regulatory and Legal Acts, which comprehensively regulates the preparation, passage of laws and other legal instruments, the requirements for their writing, and the procedure for the official publication of laws and other legal acts. Thus, we believe that this bill is fragmented, and it regulates only one problem related to legal relations that arise in the process of lawmaking. And we believe that the provisions of this bill should be part of the General Law on Legislation, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Is there a need for discussion, or can he listen? Will we now discuss whether this could have been done? Take it as a basis, let the committee work, come from the Cabinet of Ministers and make one full document and then discuss it and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u71	Listen to what I'm saying. Yuri Anatolyovich, I feel like sometimes you just listen to yourself. I'm just saying that now we're going to adopt this bill so we don't lose it. After we get from the government, to the second reading to prepare, to complete the bill, and I mean everything. Now let's move on to the discussion. No one takes that right away from you. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. 10 minutes, let's talk about this. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! It is proposed that legislation that defines the rights and obligations of citizens should be made known to the public through official publication. The date of adoption of the laws and other legal acts of the Supreme Council is the date on which they were adopted by the Supreme Council in its final edition, the date on which they were issued by the President, the date on which they were signed, the date on which they were issued by the Cabinet, the date on which they were adopted by the Cabinet. But the distinguished national MPs, we remember, were with you in the past to convene the national deputy, Alexius Yashtzyk. I want to remember him well because he then proposed the Law that we passed with you after a very delicate work, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The law was called laws and legislative activity. Unfortunately, the President vetoed it and we were stuck. This Law, which is now being passed by 20%, does not apply to that Law, I emphasize it by 20. It's lower in its level and level of preparation. And that's why I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have already addressed you in writing and I want to say that the Supreme Council today does not have 30% of the decrees and orders of the President of Ukraine, does not have a full set of regulations and orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the Supreme Legislature of Ukraine. I'm not talking about this kind of stuff anymore, like a bushwork like the secret orders of the President of Ukraine. What is it? Shouldn't we have them? No one sees orders about pardoning hundreds of criminals by today’s president and is it not similar to what happened to Clinton when he pardoned his brother. Ukraine’s Constitutional Court does not give us its resolutions and rulings. The Ministry does not have a list of valid international instruments, which is a party to Ukraine and does not give us, and this is a direct violation of the Constitution, because they are valid throughout the territory and have to be applied. And if no one knows, how can they be applied? Departments and offices do not transmit all their documents of a normative nature. In fact, these organs don't supply these documents at the same time, their electronic media. This is necessary for the timely introduction of legislation into the database. Ladies and gentlemen, I have addressed as Head of the Subcommittee on Legislation, Systematization of the Legislation of Ukraine and Harmonization of International Rights to the Needs of the Head of the Supreme Council to ensure the transmission of databases of legislation to courts, militias, prosecutors, SBAs, educational institutions and libraries. If there's no money on the disks, I'll tell you that I've calculated that my monthly salary will be enough. My monthly salary is enough for that, so let's probably do it. And I think the bill is very weak, it's very weak, it's very difficult to re-read, so I'm not going to vote for it, just for the re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u73	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the proposed draft law can be criticized and improved, and it must certainly be done, but the relevance of the topic raised cannot be denied. And if I have an observation, it's just a remark of this nature that it's limited to the institutions that are covered by this law and that have to publish their normative documents. I would also like to refer to them our Central Electoral Commission, which has been hiding the results of its activities from the people of Ukraine on the fifth day, releasing the computer manager for a job that is not well done. But what's with the computers? Horses aren't guilty. This is the arithmetic of the fifth class, to count 2.5 percent of the votes, and to tell people the truth of what has already been done to 220 million voters by the appropriate American authorities, which was done by the same CBC in 1999. It's a complete mystery. As a complete mystery were the 510, 511 decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, as they wanted to hide from the people this bribe for the prosecution, for a court which was prepared by decree of the President of Ukraine against the law. So I insist that, in order to speed up this legislative procedure, the relevant bill be adopted at least in the first reading, and in the first reading, an appropriate bill prepared by the Ministry of Justice, to raise archives and the Alexy Yushchenka bill, and to adopt a more sophisticated bill, a more perfect law, but without adopting it in the first reading, we will not go forward. The people should have appropriate information about the activities of their governing bodies. And this is the axiom of democracy. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u75	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Yavorov, Zovkla. Dear colleagues, this bill is very necessary, by the way, because we really don't have this chain fixed and it's very important. This is the final stage of drafting the bill, that is, bringing it to society itself. And what Zwania and Graz did to me seems very positive and timely. However, this bill has caused me to have a whole system of thought, both about our society and about our country in which we live. And somehow I mentioned Lincoln's words, and he said, "If I was double-faced, if I was wearing the face I'm wearing." I'm leading this to the fact that we actually have a two-faced state. We're almost double. This is one of the reasons why we live like this today, and why Ukrainian society so broadcasts is one problem, the other is the third. But that's what it really is. We have a double economy. One of the seemingly legal ones from which we extract everything that we can, in order to keep this nation alive. There's a second shadow economy from which power itself lives. And it protects this shadow economy as its sanctuary, because without a shadow economy, it is absolutely worthless, it is not worth an official, it is not worth anything to a president who lives like this economy. We have a double policy when it's said that we're going to Europe and we're actually taking a step forward. We're going to lunch, and after lunch, it's very scary that we're far away from Russia, and we're turning around and going the other way. Whatever we do, it all has absolutely double standards. I'm leading this to the fact that I really don't like this bill, that both Zwania and Player still leave in the tenth article, leave the possibility of not publishing certain acts. That's all they need. Because if we really do find out what acts, who saw them, the honourable national MPs, who are handed over to the Palace of Ukraine, are handed over to the Dusi by the largest palace in Ukraine today. And Igor Baki is in charge and deciding whether to give Dmitri Pavlitzko a 75-year-old place or not. Of course he doesn't. According to what decrees, please refer the other objects to the same SOCIETY? And here's a concrete example of a double thing again: our Havrish, the great reformist who lost it, by the way, you see, he loved the forest and the horses as a child, he was given six hectares of land without anyone. And the MP on the marsh gave him, so far he has not given any papers to the head of the Obuchi district administration. That's why I think this bill is very much needed, but it needs to definitely remove the moment, leave some more suffocation for that. I thought there might be acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u77	Yes, thank you. Igor Yukhnovsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, calm down, we'll all get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! This is a current law that separates the provisions of the Rules from the law. Among the most important of these are the issue of clear terms for the entry into force of laws and the clear definition of printed bodies, from the time the law enters into force. On the way, I would like to say that the Voice of Ukraine is becoming a more authoritative body of the Ukraine. The law came up with substantial observations by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which should be taken into account and taken into account in the second reading. I propose to adopt the law in the first reading. The correct interpretation of the laws of the Supreme Council and the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is vital. This is particularly true of the words of the Ukrainian trade unions. I say that the irresponsible statement by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovich for the reason that it was acted by the government at a one-minute rise and a counterbalance of more than 11 million. low-paid pensioners will only lead to higher prices for consumer products, which will affect not only these pensioners but also the entire population of the state. The point is that the goods are divided into three groups: The first is food, they'll always buy it, no matter what it costs. In no country in the world has their price dropped throughout history. The second group is goods of long-term use -- furniture, bicycles, vessels, loans for construction. They can be bought when income is greater than a certain limit. The third is goods of luxury. Thus, an increase in pensions that has not been made enough to buy goods of long-term use and will only lead to an increase in consumer prices. It's a populist but illiterate action that's going to bring about a slight market balance in the middle of the state. How was this to be done? people, raise wages, start with education, including a change in the pension of education pensioners, the teacher's rate to raise to the level of 1,300 bracelets per month. It's also a narrow choice to act on medicine, and thus to create a medium class of society. These actions do not lead to inflation, but they do create a basis for innovation. Sadly, however, neither Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic nor the leadership of the trade union understood this. Ladies and gentlemen, we must elect Victor Andriyovich Yushchenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u79	Yes, I'm reminding the people's deputies that we don't harm the presidential candidates. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on the Order of Official Publication of Ukrainian Laws, other legal and regulatory acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and their entry into force has been completed. It is up to the vote to propose a committee on the adoption of the draft law on the order of official publication of Ukrainian laws, other legal and regulatory acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and their taking effect. Registration number 3170. Please vote. [[11:48:08]] For 227 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, a draft law on the nature of privatization of Ukrainian oil industry is being announced. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Petrovich Cushko as the author of the bill. Get ready from the committee. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u80	Chush, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, I submitted this bill after seeing what is being created in our country's oil market, and after it became clear that we have privatization, including the stocks left behind, how do you say? - lukewarm, or under a carpet. That was why the proposal was made. At such a sad time, at a time when our Government has no leverage -- any: let the Government of Yanukovich be the Government, let it be the Government -- has no leverage in the markets of petroleum products, let it be possible to further, let it be said, to further privatize the industry in a culinary manner, in principle, subversively impossible. The essence of the law is therefore very simple: to temporarily prohibit the privatization of packages, public shares of oil-processing enterprises until we have written the law, as we wrote in the Ilic factory, the Law on “Silver”, the Law on the peculiarities of privatization of residues, because almost everything has already been put into private hands, balances or packages, public stock packages of oil-processing enterprises. The Commission, the Privatization Control Commission, supported the bill. And there is a request as author that you support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u81	Thank you. Any questions, Your Honor? Please sign up for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please. Vladimir Cherniak. Then Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u82	Dear Vassil Petrovich, I understand your motives, because privatization is not taking place properly, there is a danger that property falls and falls into the wrong hands, for nothing, not to be used. That's understandable. But there's a question: why didn't you write a law about privatization from the beginning to avoid it, not just a ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u83	Vladimir Kirilovich, to be honest, I don't consider myself a specialist in these processes, and you know, yes? - but when the process began to take stock, there was a bill that needed to be stopped. Therefore, the proposal is that you accept my bill today, and then you connect, the commission is special, and we will do so, and these rules of the game will be written by the Supreme Council to privatize these packages. That's why I told you how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u84	Mironenko Victor, please. No, no, sorry, it's here. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov Sergei Ivanovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u85	Nothing, nothing. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vassil Petrovich, I think you can support this bill of yours, but in general, it's time to ask questions about the nationalization of the oil and oil industry, because this is the basic area of the national economy of our economy, which, you can see, depends on everything: and the prices are not only on petrol, fuel, and lots, and finally on the hall that was mentioned here today. Prices are rising. What's going on? Because the oil and oil industry doesn't belong to us, and we're fully integrated into the world oil market. So how do you view this proposal, not temporary banning it, but forever banning it? We're already at that point.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u86	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, once again, I return to what my goal was to stop, this is the status quo to maintain in order to give you the right to write the same nationalization law and bring it to the Supreme Council. I therefore feel that this can be done, but it must be stopped. Because if you don't pass this law, all these packages will go away, you know who and how they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u87	Vitaly Shibko, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vassili Petrovich, it is very nice of you to report this law. This once again shows that the socialist faction of Ukraine in our Parliament does not offer what is wrong, but offers even such things as many approve. But I wanted to ask you a question like that. Tell me, how long has it been there? I'm guessing that's where Kremenchug and Galicina stayed. Is it worth it at all, maybe everyone has been stolen, in fact, as Sergey Ivanovich said, not to talk about any parts that need to be left behind, but simply to really start the problem that they are now proposing, and to move directly back into the hands of the State of that property so that we can keep something? Please, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u89	Vitaly Yakovlevich, I follow what you said, including the program of our Socialist Party, but in order to get it back, you have to keep from stealing what's left. That's why you agree with me, and I wrote a law like that. And you'll write it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u90	Time's up. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Dear colleagues! I have an offer of this, if you don't mind, that we'll be working in 13 hours right now and we'll move on to different bills at 1:00. Is there no objection? Thank you. Prepare Semenyuk from the Special Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the peculiarities of privatization of Ukrainian oil-processing enterprises, submitted by National Deputies Tsuk and Kosinov, supported it and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis and as a whole. The bill is proposed temporarily before the adoption of the State Privatisation Programme and the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of Privatisation of U.S. Petroleum Industries Enterprises to suspend privatization, including through the introduction by the State of all forms of ownership of U.S. oil-processing companies owned by the State. That's what the bill is all about, it's basically written on page 1 in a nutshell, in a nutshell, in a nutshell. At the same time, I would like to bring to your well-known opinion the chief scientific, expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who thinks the bill should be rejected. On what basis? It is the case that the legislative act on the characteristics of a particular object or group of objects should establish conditions and order for its privatization, which are different from the general rules of privatization. For example, we did this when we passed a law on the features of the privatization of the Mariupol Stocks Package of the Metallurgical Combine. Illicha. This is what we did in the Ukrainian law on the features of the privatisation of Ukratelekom, which we did in the law on the peculiarities of the privatisation of Ukraine. Instead, Ukraine's draft law on the characteristics of privatization of oil-processing enterprises does not define any specific aspects of their privatisation. On this basis, the main scientific and expert office believes that it is appropriate to reject and prepare a new bill, where there will be specialities in privatization. There are two opinions, I've given you the opinion of the Committee, the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Let the Supreme Council weigh, and the Supreme Council has the scales on which it weighs all the pros and cons, both of them. The Supreme Council can do anything except what it can't. I think she'll make the right, wise decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, Head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, this is a report, it's not a discussion yet, I mean for Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u93	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, at the meeting of the special control commission, we have discussed several times the situation surrounding the privatization of oil companies. And the fact that the agrarian faction went to Galicina PNZ and the documents that the Special Supervisory Commission sent to both the Chief of the Supreme Council and all the faction leaders, both to the prosecution and to the service, shows that all our processing companies are almost in one hand, the hands of one state. Today we have 25 percent on Galicina PNZ and 23 percent on Cremencucci oil. Thanks to this stock package, the government can also make appropriate contracts and supply fuel-oil materials on an agreement with manufacturers, especially producers. In view of the situation that has arisen and in due course I have proposed a 4230 bill amending the Privatization Act, "The Privatization of State Property, where I have clearly asked the question that enterprises that are strategic should be left in the hands of the State, unfortunately, have not found support. But in this situation, in order to preserve our fuel-oil complex, to preserve the oil processing, Vasil Petrovich introduced this bill first, based on the fact that today those stock control packages, those stock packages transferred to NAK Naftogaz, can actually be lost, and the Supreme Council will not be able to control the accession of privatization, because under the current legislation the company itself has the right to privatize. And what's more, the example that we now have in Ukraine when we privatize the Ukrepapyprom is actually based on a scheme that actually can lead to the privatisation of Galicina and the Kremencucci oil refinery and, in particular, the influence of the government can't, and we can't control it. Therefore, the proposal to adopt this bill as a whole is supported by a special commission. Moreover, this rule may be in line with the relevant law on state of emergency and economic security of the State. I think that's the part about preserving the effect on oil processing. This will be our guarantee. And the Supreme Council, I'm here to support a colleague of the Blacks, to act on an urgent basis, if necessary, to preserve state property for economic security. And those stakes that remain in the oil industry will not be able to privatize the company itself without the consent of the Supreme Council, without the control of the Supreme Council, and especially to work for the government, for the state. And then there will be strong executive power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u94	Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to remind you that the same law adopted by the Supreme Council, which was entitled "On the Specialities of Deprivation of State-owned Enterprises" 1.10 The President of Ukraine rejected this law and vetoed it. The essence of this law is no different from that. And the reasons why the President refused are mostly these. The first is that the State’s contribution to economic societies is not privatization, in fact, the alienation of state property. The other one. That the ban on introduction limits the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the administration of state property provided for in the Constitution. Third, the ban on the privatization of individual objects is regulated by a special law, which lists one and two. And if MPs want to ban any objects from privatization, they have the right to submit them to these lists. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers is not in favour of this law and agrees with the findings of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Ten minutes. Mironenko, the Communist faction. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u96	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this bill. But I do not agree with the previous speaker with regard to the settlement of the privatization process. That's the wrong position. It will still lead to further robbery. And here's the good talk about settlement, there's always a robbery, a robbery, in fact. Therefore, these conversations must be stopped if we are truly expressing the interests of the people. I fully agree with the doctor of economic science, a member of the Academy of Sciences, a member of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Drogunzov, who personally deals with these issues, the problems that are currently addressed in this bill. He believed that privatization should be halted and that this important strategic sector should be nationalized. We remember how in Soviet power, in socialism, in communists, this strategic industry served the entire economy, providing affordable tariffs to all the people. This was beneficial to all — the economy, the people, the State. Privatization now, we see, is damaging to the economy, the people, the State. But of course, it will be very difficult to do so when a lot has gone by, returning, of course, they will not want to. In this room, they will find lobbyists who will be under a sauce, including the settlement of the privatization process, to try to preserve the situation. The great problem of nationalization of what has already been privatized is also said by the fact that the Italians have taken the example of the good of our great Union of Brotherly Republics, the socialist republics, in which there has been a lot of good, including what I have said: the Italians nationalized electricity, and this serves the entire economy, the entire nation. The Italians set up a state concert, an oil - industry concert, which in due course led Mattei. This man, Matthew, has pursued policies for the benefit, economic policies, in favour of the entire economy of Ukraine, i.e. Italy, of all the people of Italy, where he was subject to seven so-called sisters, who are controlled by the United States of America. As a result, he was killed. They staged an attempt on Matthew, and he was killed. I don't exclude those supporters of nationalization from some of the most active ones, either, because it's very easy to order a murder now. Thieves have huge money, that's what I said, representatives of the two clans that are constantly fighting now, we see, and especially the pro-Western vector, sorry, they say, they're not good. But I'm sure banditry can be even bigger. So I call for a bill to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u97	Eugene Gorenik. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u98	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, the Valley Electoral District. The acting executive power, while in agony, follows the principle of King Louis: "After us is a deluge." The impression that no one cares or thinks about the future. Completely unfounded and often illegal decisions are made, the land is privatized. In particular, in my native region of Ivano-Frankiv, under promising tourist zones, military property, military towns, Krivoriztal, and, of course, the most massive and profitable oil, oil, oil and oil complexes. Including the sale of stocks, extra emissions, and other things. Unfortunately, these predators, many of whom are accustomed to living by the laws of the zone, cannot understand that you will not swallow everything and that the Noah's Ark will not contain everything. Therefore, the initiative of MPs Tsushka and Kosinova should be welcomed so that the Ukrainian people do not bleed after these elections. We don't have any hope of her stopping anything. She's writing notes that everything's fine, and she's only doing tests and persecutions on the area where Victor Yushchenko won. In particular, in my constituency, there is no reason to run a background check in the village of Roznet, based on data.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u99	Let's go through the bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u100	heads that he seems to know how many people abroad. Dear friends! People showed patriotism, returning from Poland, returning from Kiev to vote. Not one act of violation, including the Luhansk observers. And the D.A.'s doing stupid things.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u101	I'd like to ask you for a bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u102	That's why I'm finishing up the bill. Since there is no hope for the prosecution, only the Supreme Council can stop this dump. And she has to do it by adopting this bill. I would just like to add one word: "the oil and oil industries." There's a lot of government property left that can be torn apart. And after this supplement -- "naphthachemical" -- I would suggest that we adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u103	Vladimir Puzakov. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u104	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština All that goes with us and around us is not by chance the order of the capitalist system, in which everything that does not bring the bourgeois capital or does not contribute to it has no right to exist, and therefore is subject to immediate destruction, more faithfully, acceptance in Ukrainian. This horrendous privatisation has shown that the dissipation process is characterized by a series of negative economic, legal, and political consequences. It is known that in Ukraine, five percent of the population privatized 80 percent of the major production funds, saying that a small pile of bourgeois owns a large amount of capital from privatization. For example, in 12 years, only $8.7 billion was budgeted for privatisation and $10 billion in the year of the pre-election campaign. So the results of privatization will be known to the Ukrainian people after the elections. That's privatization for you. So the question is, who has the benefit of privatization: a state or a bunch of oligars born by privatization? There is no need to talk today about the characteristics of the privatization of the oil industry. I'll show up. We survived a petrol fever when, as on a rolled - up track, tariffs on utilities and food and necessities increased several times. If you compare the facts of the bourgeois market economy to the economy of the Soviet Ukraine, the picture is this: in the Soviet Ukraine in the 1990s, part of the domestic product per capita was $5 000,400, in the bourgeois Ukraine with the market economy -- one thousand and 31 dollars. This is the efficiency of the market economy. Today, tariffs have already been destroyed by effective owners of millions of jobs, the economy of the state. [[in quotes]] And it will be destroyed until there is a country of planned economy. Regrettably, there are currently no rules of law in the area of privatization. In this regard, I support the offer made by Tsushka Vasil Petrovich to ban the privatisation of oil companies that are still in state ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u105	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. Weak, please, with motive. Turn on the microphone. Invite the deputies to the session room. That's what you did. Oh, you didn't. Now, now. Weak microphone, turn on the center group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have really discussed this bill and have been determined earlier on this issue. I am surprised, for example, at the fact that the transfer of property to a state enterprise is considered to be the same property as that owned by a state that could otherwise dispose of its property. At the same time, the Center Group always gathers and discusses its position on such issues or on specific issues. Yes, we have the principle of democracy. We have the right to have what are the different positions. Thus, for example, Taras Cranovil declared his excellent position from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rostrum on the division of Ukraine into various parts as to the inability to express his thoughts in one or more regions of individual candidates for the post of President of Ukraine. So I would like to point out that the House of Deputies Group is speaking for the transparent process of the election of the President of Ukraine. Personally, when I was in District 19, I heard the opinion of voters who said how they had created these proper conditions by means of equal access to vote when they were looking for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u107	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u108	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! This is what we have experienced when it comes to the question that a liter of gasoline will cost us at least 4 dollars because only 25 percent in Galicín and 23 percent in the cremating state. Everything else hasn't belonged to the state for a long time. All the other state is owned by just about four families in Ukraine and several oligarchs from neighboring countries. So despite what is being said today that there are shortcomings in this law, I would ask you to support the adoption of this law in the first and second readings. And then, I address Mrs. Seminouk, we've given you an assignment, so let's fully acknowledge those privatizations in these factories, because this is a threat to Ukraine's national security. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! Discussion of the draft Law on the Characteristics of Privatization of U.S. Petroleum Industries has been completed. A committee proposal shall be put to the vote, a proposal such as on the basis and in general. But first I'm going to lay the groundwork. That is, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on the peculiarities of privatization of the Ukrainian oil industry. [[Registration number 6083]] Please vote. [[12:14:45]] For 244 Decision taken. The second sentence of the committee shall be put to the vote: accept it as a whole. Anyone who denies it, please. The incorruptible object. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u110	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." I don't mind, I'm just suggesting even a little bit more, because we still had a productive offer, and my point of view is to add an oily one, too. Add two words and you could take it as a basis, you could view it as an amendment to the second reading, so in two words there are actually serious costs, I think billions of dollars are possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u111	There's the next law, they say, on this point, let's not, because now we're going to ruin everything. Dear colleagues! Please note, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee as a whole as a law, a draft law on the characteristics of privatization of Ukrainian oil-processing enterprises. Registration number 6083. Please vote. Here comes the vote. [[12:16:06]] For 240 The law is passed. Honorable National MPs, the draft Law on the Only State Register of Children Who Have Not Been Careful of Parents and Can Be Adopted and Citizens Who Want to Adopt a Child is being announced. Registration number 4334. Reporter Atroshenko Vladislav Anatoliyovich. Prepare for the Mikola Onichtuk Committee. This is followed by a reduced procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u112	Vladislav Atroshenko, 207th constituency, Victor Yushchenka's block. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, Honorable TVs and Radio Broadcasters, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on a Single State Register of Children Who Have Been Left Unattended by Parents and May Be Adopted and Citizens Who Want to Adopt a Child Designed to Allow as Many Orphan Children as Possible to Get Home Warm. Most of you, honourable national MPs, have seen the eyes of children in children's homes, in boarding schools, and it is clear that they are the most vulnerable groups of the population. Therefore, the generalization of such children is fundamental. The project is designed not only for children in need of care but also for those who want to adopt. Including foreign citizens. Particular attention is paid to accessing information and protecting citizens’ rights to receive information. It is proposed to create a single state register of adoption, an automated system of assembly, accumulation, storage and data on children who are left without parental care and can be adopted and citizens who want to adopt a child. The project provides for the creation of state and regional registries whose main purpose is to introduce a single national register of adoption and provide relevant information to citizens and foreigners wishing to adopt a child who is a citizen of Ukraine. The data will be imported in places where each registration code is assigned and then stored at the state level. Then all you have to do is complete the register with information as it comes. Moreover, the data that will be used will be based solely on the child’s interests and consent to the publication of the relevant information. The integrity and consistency of the legal system for the formation and use of a register of data on children and persons who want to adopt a child will be highlighted. I am confident that the introduction of a single database will not only allow me to generalize data about children and to conduct timely analysis of information, but also facilitate the accelerated placement of the child in the family and upbringing and, most importantly, help prevent the abduction and trafficking of children. I urge you to support this bill in the first reading and to make it clear that the Scientific and Expert Bureau generally supports this bill, taking into account some comments. In future readings, we can work on further developments. People's deputies would like to support the bill and vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens who listen to the broadcast. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy naturally considered the bill. Allow me to inform you of the decision taken. First of all, I would like to point out that Atroshenko, a national deputy, has raised a very important and socially important issue, particularly in relation to the adoption of children, particularly through the creation of a national register of children who have been deprived of their parents and those who wish to adopt them must be governed by law. So the goal is to raise the level of regulation from the law, because today, in the vast majority, they are regulated by the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, to the level of the law. And everything was on the committee as a compliment to the bill. At the same time, this idea, from the point of view of its normative implementation, has generated many comments and warnings from both members of the committee and from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education. In view of this, it was recommended that the author finalize the bill, and we will definitely support it. At the same time, for the sake of objectivity, I must say that the Ministry of Youth, Family, and Children is proposing a bill of support. Clearly, then, the situation today must be resolved. If the author feels that he is willing to work with a second - reading committee to remove the warnings that exist and many of them. There are disagreements with the Civil Code. There are some inconsistencies and other aspects, such as the specific mechanism for verifying the reliability of the information provided and so forth. So that's where we're supposed to be with you. At the same time, the position of the committee, I would like to stress once again, is to recommend that the bill be drafted. But both the hall and the other decisions, including the approval of the first reading, will be faithful to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u115	The position of the Cabinet of Ministers, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We propose to support the adoption in the first reading, and we will work together to finalize the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this project? Yes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Novak, please. Then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u117	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. The question that we are considering today is not new to our nation. Since the year 911, the Kyiv princes have cared for orphans. In 1037, Jaroslav Wisey compiled a collection of laws called Russian Truth, where, among other things, the rules of guardianship of the orphan were laid down. Those days, it turns out, are understandable to us. More than that, nomads, conquerors, hordes that swept through our lands, smashing our cities and villages, taking the working population into slavery, and leaving the children alone. Think, respectfully, and answer to yourself and the people: What hordes desolate our cities and villages today? Who in modern times are bereaved of their own people? Why has the number of orphans raised in children’s boarding homes increased by one and a half times in peace and free Ukraine since 1995? Why there were 100,000 in Ukraine last year. Orphan? By the way, most of all in Europe. Why did we become the country where the world’s most children are being exported abroad? According to official figures alone, the number of Ukrainian children adopted by foreign nationals has exceeded 5,000 in the past two years. I think all these questions will be answered by history and the Ukrainian people. But now it's about the project that we're looking at. I feel that it is absolutely necessary to accept it. These are the kind of registers you need. It takes at least to control adoption processes. After all, the events of recent years have shown that our corrupt country has a cynical, untraceable trade in children. No one is being punished for this because the State, the law enforcement authorities, simply do not intervene in this process. Although in 1991 Ukraine ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. If we adopt this law, it will be practical to define a mechanism for accounting for children who have lost parental care and Ukrainian citizens who want to adopt a child. This will further help to raise children in the family and improve the protection of their rights and interests. But I think it can only be accepted in the first reading. There are a number of observations that have been made in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They are essential, and they need to be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin, get ready for Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u119	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! On January 1, 2004, there were orphans and children who were deprived of parental care from nearly 100,000 to 96290. It's a colossal number. And I want to thank the People's Deputy Atroshenko, thanking his mother for placing the right emphasis on this bill. Yes, the bill is one that will serve the interests of Ukraine. It is proposed to establish the responsibility of the care and care authorities, to provide the regional registry with data on any child who is left unattended and may be adopted. So no little Ukrainian will be released anywhere. In addition, these authorities are still obliged to report to the register on persons who have been informed of their desire to adopt a child. So all the time, information will be accumulated for foreigners as well. I especially want to say to foreigners. You know, at a lot of meetings and receptions, we have Ukrainian citizens talking about why do you allow children to be taken abroad when we can't answer what's going on? You know, there's a family in the Squire district that adopted children, they're very brave people. They were denied and deliberately obstructed in order to adopt children. And so, I think that this bill should necessarily be adopted, and that in the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Department there are some observations that Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk said about today, I think that the author will agree, he has the right to now declare that he will fully count them, not so many of them, they apply, in particular, to the understandable apparatus that is, namely: how it fits with the Family Code. So the regional registrationist is registering children that can be adopted within 10 days of receiving the relevant documents about the child, this is part of two articles of the eight project. But then we need to make changes to article 214 of the Ukrainian Family Code. And it needs to be done in addition to this law, and there are big problems, and by the terms that are also used in the Family Code, there is absolutely no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u120	Eugene Gorenik, please. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this bill needs much discussion. We should thank the deputy Atroshenka, a member of the faction Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine", for not saying a word, but in doing so he wants to take care of the fates not only of children with gold chains on their necks, as shown in some TV commercials, but of children who are surrounded by fate, orphans, very often with living parents. And this situation really causes both the queues and the corruption of these children's fates. And the bill is specifically designed to sort these processes. Yes, the observations made by the Scientific and Scientific Administration are often fair. Obviously, some change in registration terms is needed, taking into account the confidentiality of information. There may be a need for transitional provisions where appropriate changes in existing legislation should be made. But it seems to me that there can be no doubt, the bill is absolutely necessary and very useful. Let's at least do something useful for our children, for our future, and vote in favour of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u122	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u123	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkowsky districts, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear red lions! Dignified Dwarves! Dear Blue Representatives of Yanukovich! This law kind of suddenly appeared to us, because it's really not like this problem was lying somewhere far away from everything that is happening in our Ukrainian chaos today, in this Ukrainian society. And this problem, of course, is. This problem has long been ripe and it's quite clear that at the time of the initial accumulation of capital, when any moral brakes have been lost in society, they are not, in fact today, even those scarce reserves that have been left behind since the 20th century, the subject of a child, a Ukrainian child, a child in Ukrainian society has been completely overlooked, and it's probably an accident that we've been asking questions about single mothers and questions about single mothers this week, which is also a topic that is very important today and about the protection of children and children with disabilities. I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's very positive and it should go to such a good fortune for our Ukrainian Parliament with you. But let's think about how, in fact, in the 13 years that we've been living in, we really wanted to, we haven't actually had any positive impulses, no positive images in the world co-workers. In fact, everything is almost completely negative. By the way, I'd say yes, the Cliché brothers, who sometimes get their face out there, and they can still have Ruslan and, in fact, that's it. And the rest of it's scandals, political scandals, journalist killings and the like. And that's where the children's trade is in line. You know this very well how many scandals were around this and in Lviv, a recent Kharkiv scandal about trade, possible trade, because the prosecutor's office has not yet proved it, perhaps the sale of children's healthy organs for rich uncles who want to rejuvenate and so on. I am absolutely convinced that this bill is very much needed, here we have already spoken, and I, if you'll excuse me for being banal, but I'll do it again. I'm really grateful to Atrocenkov that he caught up in this tumultuous Ukrainian life, and I'm convinced that this bill would seem to have an idea of good, but in fact, it's a good technical execution, where there's some kind of secrecy in it. That person who wants to adopt someone, he enters this register with his data, if he refuses, that's where his data comes from. I am convinced that this bill needs to be voted on. I really like the phrase of Valencia, who started building a new Poland, in the phrase, "Let's share our poverty equally." I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u124	The bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. With the motives of Baranovsky and Cherniak, please microphones. Baranja Alexander, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Here today, a fellow worker was correctly noted that we have the official orphans and that we have the unofficial orphans. What register is there for those children who are now numbered on various data to 140,000 who run through shops, basements, and live there, asking for some kind of alms, while their parents are looking after foreign children? So these kids are homeless, no one knows their fate, their parents can't find them. Would it not be possible to introduce a general register of children today, and I think there should be their fingerprints so that they can't be taken there and taken abroad under any other circumstances, as is being done today? And one more thing. Today, we do not eliminate the causes of such consequences when children who need to be adopted appear, especially when this is done abroad. Because there is no whole government program on this issue, which has always been in different years. Even this bill is passed by a colleague, not a Kabmin. That's why we need to support him, but the authorities need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u126	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! The bill needs to be supported, it's beyond question, but we still need to pay attention to the fact that in the process of preparing for second reading, it is necessary to make it impossible to trade in children under the flag of adoption. Who investigates: What is the fate of adopted children? What is the fate of adopted children who are taken abroad? What kind of monitoring is someone doing? The responsibility of what government authorities should be? Responsibility, emphasis should be placed on this. To make these negative phenomena impossible, because these questions are very, very challenging, the issue of child trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u128	Honorable National Deputies, if all of us were unable to read the second reading, we must have been doing the second reading. It's just that everyone who owns it needs to work, not be involved in political games. I mean in our country, because there is no war, and children are more orphans than after the Great Homeland War, and after the 17th year. The proposal for adoption by the Committee is therefore put to the vote on the basis of the draft law on a single national register of children who are left without parental care and who may be adopted and citizens who wish to adopt a child. Registration number 4334. To be accepted as a basis, please vote. [[12:37:12]] For 265 Decision taken. The factions, please. According to the factions: "Our Ukraine", I read "for" - 95, Ukraine - 16, Communist - 56, SDPU (o) - 0, Labour Ukraine - 6, People's agrarian - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 15, Union - 3, only Ukraine - 5, Center - 11, NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 12, mine action - 0, non-fractional - 6. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on guardianship and care is being announced for consideration. From the Committee, please, Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak. Registration number 5572. Ladies and gentlemen, we have three documents to consider. I'd like us to work, then we'll go to "different" actively. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u129	Dear national deputies, our colleague Assadchev has proposed that the court be given the right not only to appoint, decide on the appointment of guardians or caregivers to minors, minors, who are declared incapacitated or incapacitated, but also to appoint guardians or caregivers. Now the mechanism is, the court decides on the appointment of custody or care, the decision comes into force, then it's passed on to the custody and custody body, then the authority decides on the appointment of the guardian. This period between even bringing a court decision into effect and making a decision by the custody body to appoint a guardian or caregiver, this period is a period of time when the task may be of some harm to the interests of a person, one of the people I called you, for whom a guardian or caregiver is appointed. And that's why he's proposing, at the same time, a decision to assign caregivers to caregivers. There are some other needs of some of the changes that he proposes. We decided on the committee that this idea needed further consideration, but on the first reading, we suggest that we adopt a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u130	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. Dear colleagues, a report from the committee has been made. Do we need to discuss the matter? Maybe we'll make a decision, we'll take the paperwork and then we'll work on it. Then I'd like to settle down so that we can make a decision. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I have an opinion from the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u131	It's going to come from the government. Just invite the national deputies to the session room. Please, the idea from the government, the more it's given to the people's deputies. The MPs, I'm sure they can read. Please give me a message from the government. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In our opinion, the drafters did not take into account the status of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code when drafting a bill that provides for the appointment of guardians and guardians for the submission of custody and care bodies. Because according to the first part of article 241 of the Civil Procedure Code, which will take effect on 1 January 2005, but not before the adoption of the Administrative Procedure Code, the court's decision to restrict the civil fitness of a person, including the restriction or denial of the right of a minor to self-manage his or her income or the recognition of a natural person as ineffective after his or her legal strength, is sent to the body of care and care. Such a court decision is the basis for appointing a natural person who is limited in civilian efficiency, caregiver, and incapacitated guardian. In the first article of article 63 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, it is determined that the guardian or caregiver is appointed by the body of care and care. Therefore, there is no need for amendments to the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers has been shown to you. There is a committee decision to take as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is to take the basis for the comments made. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on Care and Care]] Registration number 5572. Please vote. [[12:42:56]] For-183 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading. Well, with motive. When is the vote coming, from which might there be motives already? Please, Carmazine's microphone. Better to vote, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u133	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know how much I respect you. [[Yuri Karmazin]] But please. There was a discussion. What did you do? You gave your word to a government representative who said that everything was wrong, no one said anything else, we didn't say our opinion, not even for the reasons of the vote. And I'll tell you this, and a lot of people have become disoriented, and this position raises the level of protection of the rights and interests of the individual, the right of such a court -- the authority to appoint a guardian or a guardian. So what's wrong with that? Moreover, the scientific and expert office has also written and proposes to complete the project by making changes to article 75 -- the release of a guardian or caregiver into the Civil Code. So what's wrong with that? I ask you to put up a vote because people have been misled, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. And that's because we're all in a hurry to do what we're supposed to do under the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on Care and Care. Registration number 5572. Please vote. [[12:44:43]] For 230 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components is being announced for consideration. [[on the Pension Allowance]] Polczyk Mikola Efremovich, please. Dear colleagues, there are two other documents to consider, and I ask you to be patient. Very briefly, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! National deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood discussed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Blood Donation and its Components, introduced by National Deputy Dobkin, Registration Number 2578. A bill aimed at promoting free donor development in Ukraine proposes to increase the amount of pension allowance for individuals who have the status of an honorary donor of Ukraine. According to Dobkin’s National Deputy, the amount of the allowance is projected to increase from 20 percent of the minimum pension to 25 percent of the minimum wage. It should be noted that the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian National Deputies to improve the regulation of social benefits, guarantees and incentives "Honorous Donors of Ukraine", but according to the Ukrainian Law "On Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine", individuals who are assigned the honorary title "Deserved Donor of Ukraine" have a pension allowance of 20-25 per cent of the subsistence minimum. Therefore, the adoption of the bill proposed by the Ukrainian National MP by Dobkin may lead to the elimination of pension benefits in accordance with the pensions of deserving and honorable donors. In view of this, the Committee believes that it would be more appropriate to increase the amount of the pension allowance to honorable donors by setting it at 10 percent of the minimum standard of living. At the same time, in order to stimulate donor development in Ukraine and balance donor material interest, there is a need to increase donor compensation for donated blood. According to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, on February 17, 2003, there were 37,486 persons of retirement age who had the status of an honorary donor of Ukraine. Thus, in the event of an increase in the pension supplement, "Honorable donors up to 10 percent of the minimum standard of living, the need for additional funding will be only 12.8 million dollars. According to the U.S. Department of Health, the funds needed to increase compensation for blood supply will amount to about one and a half million dollars. Taking into account the social significance of the issue under consideration, the Committee proposes to adopt, as a basis, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Donation of Ukraine and its components, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Dobkin, with further development, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee and other subjects of the law of the legislative initiative. The Chief Executive of the Supreme Council also supports this bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, what is the position of the government in this regard? Well, if there are no government representatives, that means positive. So maybe let's take this decision as a basis. It's a very important social bill. I ask you to prepare for the vote of the national MPs. Please prepare for the vote. A motion for a vote is put to the vote. Well, with motive, please. Change the vote. Carmazine. Invite the national deputies to the session room at the same time. Then the Storm of Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill. And what it says is that there is no funding, count: 12.8 million dollars is from the Pension Fund. An extra one and a half million dollars. Compare this to the two billion that are now being thrown out -- dollars! - for the election campaign of the candidate of power - and you'll see it's nothing. Therefore, the first and second readings should be used. And I'd like to ask you this question: acceptance in the first and second readings. Because not one person has spoken out against it, but the donor is now a huge problem in the world, and in the country we have more. Let us give some signal to the positive society that we think of those who save others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u138	Igor Shurma, please the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Let's vote, not have a discussion!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u139	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. The amendment to article 13 refers to receiving a pension allowance of 25 percent to a minimum of living, and the current law provides for an allowance of 20 percent to an old - age minimum. We can agree with the bill's author that this is a solution to the problem of having enough donor blood in Ukraine, and it makes sense to use this method of involving citizens in donorism. In view of the urgent problem of providing donor blood for the population of Ukraine, it is appropriate to agree with the drafter of the bill and the draft law adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u140	Vadim Gurov, please. Raised his hand. Microphone, please. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u141	Vadim Gurov, Krivbas. In recent years donors in Ukraine have declined several times, and the supply of blood to hospitals is unabatedly catastrophic. The Ukrainian blood bank is virtually empty and the blood supply is about 2 times smaller than the standards. In doing so, the consequences of such a deficit are difficult to assess today. So this project is probably worth supporting, but frankly, will it be accepted by a sufficient donor incentive? So the "One Ukraine" faction thinks that a more effective and just move would be to raise the pay for blood. Well, think about it, 3.50 for the blood in the shed. [[I just got here.]] It's for food and one day as a vacation. Who's going to give this blood? Therefore, honourable colleagues, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party certainly supports this project, but at the same time we ask the government to turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u142	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I beg you, let's vote. Please. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components. [[on the Pension Allowance]] Please vote. [[12:52:25]] For 263 Decision taken. There was an offer to accept this project as a law. Who denies such an offer? Oh, no? The proposal to enact the draft law as a whole is therefore put to the vote as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components. [[on the Pension Allowance]] Registration number 2578. Please vote. As a matter of fact. [[12:53:03]] For 280 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! We have yet to consider the draft Ordinance on the State Objective Program "Diagnostics, Prevention and Anti-Sponge and Other Prefectious Infections in Ukraine for 2004-2010." Mikolo Efraemovich, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u143	Taking into account the relevance of the issue of prevention of the introduction into Ukraine of dangerous infectious diseases caused by pathogens, it is impressive to both animals and humans that the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood has supported the project of the National Target Program introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Bogatirirova, Komar, Korsakov, Masters. In recent times, large cattle encephalopathy has been registered in 21 countries in Europe, including Ukraine and the import of animal products. Taking into account today’s critical situation in the domestic market as a result of the shortage of meat and meat products, the volume of imports of this product has gained even greater weight. Despite the enormous threat of national security, the current programme to prevent the eradication of large-bovine diseases in the fungal encephalopathy and other contagion infections in Ukraine for 2001-2010 is not adequately carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is not implemented by the government and adopted in June 2003 by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Population from Infectious Diseases, as part of the allocation of funds for the development of laboratories for the diagnosis of persistent infections in health institutions. So far, no such laboratory has been created in Ukraine. True, we need to think about the grain crisis and the meat that today's government has led to, but still, when we import products from abroad, we should have such laboratories in our country. The project does not adequately reflect the medical aspects of the fight against infections, the participation of health-care professionals and health-care facilities, the control of imported animals in Ukraine, which includes animal components such as perfumer cosmetics, immunobiological products, and so on. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Maternal Health and Childhood Health recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a national target programme: diagnosis, prevention and measures to combat spongiform encephalopathy and other acceptable infections in Ukraine for 2004-2010, and will now be the 5th, to be taken as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Agaric Policy and Land Relations, also recommend that the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u144	Now Yuri Anatolyevich will tell us. Carmazine's microphone and we'll vote. Karmazin's microphone Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u145	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to vote first, and secondly, I want to pay attention to something else. We have 16 million dollars a year. Absolutely not funded by the government in 2002, nor by a single bracelet. And I want to emphasize that this disease can cause God forbid disease and people, it's Kreitzfeld Jacob's disease, because of the meat that comes to us today, including smuggling. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we need to know why there is no government today, and the program needs to be adopted and demanded that they continue to do no harm to this state, such as these infections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is present, but we have already agreed that we will vote, so pay attention. A motion for adoption by the Committee for a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3744, is put to the vote. The State Target Program on Diagnostics, Prevention and Anti-Sponge Encephalopathy and Other Prefectious Infections in Ukraine for 2004-2010. Please vote. [[12:58:17]] For 303 With this in mind, dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft decree as a whole as a decree, registration number 3744. Please vote. Let's give the constitutional majority. [[12:58:42]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the issues scheduled for Friday, all discussed. Let's move on to the Miscellaneous. Please indicate on the table the name of the national deputies for the performances. Oh, I'm sorry. Please sign up. There's a recording going on. Please sign up. Take your cards off, now. Take down the vote. Put your cards back on, dear fellows. Take down the vote. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, you just came to Razne, I understand. Yes, please prepare for the vote, for the record. Please record. On the board, give me the names of the national MPs who signed up for the various shows. Please, come on. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma. Get ready for Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u147	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party remains a faithful basic principle of Parliament's activities -- legislation. [[united]] I pay attention to this, and I stress this because the events of recent times have been convincingly telling us that the sure transformation of the Supreme Council into a political rostrum. The focus of the legislative body’s attention on the political sphere is particularly damaging to Parliament itself. The draft Social Code has been prepared by the MPs of the faction of SDPU. Why the Social Code? The faction, as an expression of the interests of the party in Parliament, took another step towards the implementation of the programme and the pre-election programme. Our clear objective is clear. Social Democrats advocate an organic combination of a market economy model with a socially oriented product redistribution system. We want to achieve a reduction, and in the future and completely eliminate social contrasts. And to do that, there must be a whole set of social and political initiatives that provide for a civilized and fair system of family subsidies for children, free school education, secure and dignified pensions, housing, youth assistance, programs, unemployment assistance, and so on. To address these very important issues, the draft of Ukraine’s Social Code is being considered by the Supreme Council. Yes, we agree that, throughout Ukraine's independence, solid social legislation has been developed. However, this legislation contains a large number of inconsistent social protection laws for individual categories of war and labour veterans, victims of political repression, black people, disabled persons, and separate laws for families with children and low-income families. Full harmonization is required by the legislation that is marked with laws that regulate social standards and social services. This is a problem that needs to be emphasized. The fundamental disadvantage of current legislation is that many of the legal rules governing social relations are still established by regulations, not by Ukraine's laws, as it should be. There are a number of gaps in legislation and regulations that significantly violate the legal system of social protection and specific rights of Ukraine. Therefore, the need to summarize some of the developments in the Ukrainian legislative field in the area of social protection is practically re-thinking valid standards, eliminating contradictions seems to be very reasonable and logical. The most appropriate in this direction, to the deep belief of the faction, is the codification of social legislation. The draft of the Social Code of Ukraine has already been submitted to the National Committee and distributed to the National Deputies. And most importantly, in the social sphere of the state, a very reliable and effective tool is essential. That is exactly what we consider the draft of the Ukrainian Social Code proposed by the MPs of the faction of SDPU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u148	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Lechchenka, who will perform instead of Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u149	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka. Dear Head, my fellow countrymen, my fellow countrymen! You and I have witnessed how, during the preparations for the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31st of this year, the authorities have done unscrupulous things to complicate the opportunity for the candidate from the opposition, eventually for other candidates, and the green track has only reached the candidate from power. The question was certainly: why is it that today's power is so, give it a word, it is horribly clinging to everyone, wherever possible, to leave itself and continue in power in Ukraine? The fact that it is difficult to lose is that in the past 13 years, the authorities of this power have become very reluctant to lose. This is a total robbery of Ukraine and so on. I recently visited the village of East, near Rabbit, to see this argument. And you know, this is an illustration of why you don't want to give power. When I saw these cottages, modestly speaking, Sergey Medvedczuk, the head of the district tax administration of the Levite, Miroslav Homjak, his deputy Storcila, the head of the tax police of Zvodecko, our colleague Stephen Gavrish, who is there, well, not building, but building an entire sanatorium. You can count for a very, very long time. And if you go there and see for yourself, you'll realize that you're not going to build a civil servant's salary. This can be built solely for the money stolen from pensioners, from people who may have a job. That is why this authority does not want to leave its occupied places. Second, which draws attention to himself during this time, the authorities suffer from deep ignorance in mathematics. Look at this: The Constitutional Court couldn't count to three, Crnowil, who now serves the government, saw as many as four stones flying to the President instead of one egg, the CBC still can't count voter votes, while the United States of America already knows. Today there were several deputies from that cohort, and you know, I have to say that Judas Iscariot is more noble than you: he was hanged when he realized his guilt. You can't even do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u150	Lechchenko has the word. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u151	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Of course, the most important event today that concerns all of Ukrainian society is the election of the President of Ukraine. Who will lead our country, which has a political and economic course that will be the basis of executive action for the next five years, will depend on the further fate of every Ukrainian citizen. It can be noted with great confidence that representatives of the bourgeois clans of Yanukovic and Yushchenka, who are no different from each other, have skillfully hung noodles on the ears of many voters, promising them the "manna of the heavenly" and the "milk year with the acid shores", have deprived them of the near prospect of poor people, and their share in society is 90 percent, to improve the normal life of each family and to live more human lives. The large money previously collected by the capitalists by criminal methods in the simple voters and their being bribed by these voters and by lying advertising has done their part: Ukrainian citizens, the vast majority of whom are at the heart of the Ukrainian Company programme, which envisions the establishment of a controlling people, not the merchants of oligarchs, Soviet authorities, the establishment of social justice for every member of society, the formation of an alliance of independent Slovenian states: Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, have given priority to candidates from the bourgeoisie. This was made possible by the constant, 13 years of psychological treatment of the population, which gave its souls the prospect of changing the system of power and building a just society. In this regard, the bourgeoisie has forced many voters to choose less from two difficulties. Some were afraid of bandits -- and preferred bandits with motorists, others feared the latter -- and favoured the bandits. But both are capitalists. And capitalists always have one goal: to increase their income in their own pocket by robbing their own people. And never, I emphasize, will the bourgeois ever share with the poor. And never, I emphasize, will the President-in-Office ever do the program that the electorate is offered, which is always and will be a promise-at-the-point. Because none of the Ukrainian bourgeois presidents or bourgeois deputies have implemented or implemented their pre-election programmes. There will soon be a show called "re-vote in the election of the President of Ukraine." The Ukrainian Communists in their plenary made the most balanced decision: not to support any of the candidates. I urge the electorate to think carefully about his personal decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u152	The word has been given to the national MP, Taran. The next one will be the Cossacks. He gives the word to John the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u153	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear citizens, my friends! The main points that I want to pay attention to. First. Dear citizens of Ukraine are sure to come to the polling stations before the start of the second round of elections and check yourself in the election lists. Even if you've checked your last name on the first round, the lists are old, and you won't be allowed to vote again. In Ukraine, 10 to 15 percent of citizens did not vote on the wrong lists. Their voices were falsified, stolen. And if these citizens were to vote, the CIA would have had to announce Victor Yushchenk as president by now. Another point. Today, authorities are repressing honest people in areas and regions where Yushchenko has won. For example, the heads of the agrofirm were arrested. The Suma region of Nephrodova, Mishchenka, Glazuna, but actually criminal responsibility falls under the leadership of the Biliopola State of Grychano, who gave criminal orders and orders on election day. Criminal acts are also responsible for what was done at the University of Sumu, such as Chernish, others. And I want to protect, assure you, dear citizens, we will protect all honest people, but we know who is committing crime in the polls, in the administrations, we know everyone by name, and I want to assure you that everyone who violates the law will sit on the bench after the election. [[I can assure you!]] They will certainly sit down. Third point. Janukovic refuses to debate with Yashchenk. It's a violation of the law. Janukovic says that he was allegedly insulted at the rally, and he refuses to do so. This is offended by the same Janukovic, who calls people goats and veterans of the work three letters. Actually, Janukovich is afraid of the truth, Yanukovich is afraid of Yushchenka. Point four. I would like to inform you, honourable people, that the National MP Paulenko has asked the Foreign Ministry for a parliamentary request and he asked whether there is any state in the world where the president, prime minister, or monarch would be the one whose biography is rich in reprisal. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied, citing the response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "In the midst of the leaders of all states, no mention is made of the possibility of committing criminal crimes committed by valid monarchs, presidents or prime ministers who have been suspended or abolished." Thus, neither in Europe nor in Asia nor in Africa is there anywhere in the world a monarch, nor a president, nor a prime minister who would have criminal or criminal offences, whether they were executed or not. And the last point. Yesterday we tried to adopt an addition to the Presidential Elections Act, which would eliminate falsifications with resilient coupons. The so - called government factions were against them; they fear the truth as roaches of light. This one. The Communists also supported Yanukovich. Here's all the démagogies you hear about bourgeois in the speeches of the previous MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u154	The word has the Hare. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u155	Dear National Deputies! I want to clarify the situation of the voter district of 200, which consists of the Zolitanisky, Drabovsky, Blackbayivsky, Kanivsky Districts of Złotonoshi and Kaneva. After clarifying the situation in this area, we can understand why the CEVC does not publish the results of the vote. It doesn't go public because it doesn't want to declare Victor Yushchenk a winner. It doesn't go public because it wants to hide Victor Yushchenk's victory in the first round. It hides the results of the vote because it does not want to leave the fence of counterfeiting and leads to the territorial election commissions and district election committees. I want to warn once again all those who have planned to falsify and distort the will of men. He's going to sue the law. What happened in this territorial constituency is number 200. The election results have been falsified in ten district election committees. As a result of this falsification, Yanukovich was illegally attributed only 10 polling stations to almost 3,000 votes, almost 2 percent of the votes taken by Yushchenka, almost half a thousand votes reduced by almost 1 percent. In what way was counterfeiting done? These methods have proved to be a great deal. One of them is the bold correspondence of voting protocols to the DTC by the leaders of these district election committees. Under the writing of representatives of the Drabovsky, Cnerobaivian, Goldilocks region, they were simply forced to rewrite the protocol, regardless of the results of the vote on the ballots in those envelopes. This was stated almost unanimously by the territorial electoral commission that they were under intense pressure and blackmail. Even some claimed that they could not name the names of these people who had been forced to copy them because they feared for their lives and did not want to adopt their children. So, dear friends, we see the fact that blackmail is huge. The territorial electoral commission has set up this forgery, it has recalculated the votes, and there are protocols. As a result, seven heads of the district commission were released for gross violation of the Law and six secretaries were released for gross violation of the law. So I want to warn everyone, especially those, that makes people fake and those who participate in this fake, that you will be responsible under the criminal code for this crime, because you are opposed to the will of the people. I want the rule of law in this country, and this power goes by the will of the people. The people will reject Yanukovich and choose Yushchenka in the second round without a doubt, for no one else will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u156	The word is given by the national MP Mironenko, behind him Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u157	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, this week, we, the people's deputies of Ukraine, have adopted a vast number of drafts, in the first, second reading, as a whole. But I am saddened by these bills because they are often very, very, very, not even half-hearted, but only to a small degree solving the problems that are now facing society. When the elections ended and I was asked: Am I tragic? I was saying that I fully understand that result because they are deceiving the population very much. In addition, people must still load the cones and understand what is happening to the country. It must be understood that the chosen state course is not the right course, the path to capitalism, the way to secession from the brotherly Russia by the Natovo wall is a damaging road, causing trouble for the people and needs to be corrected. And these bills will not change anything, because they are adopted within the capitalist Parliament and, if small concessions are to be given to the people, of course, substantial laws are being passed for the sake of the great capitalists. What happened to the country -- the return to capitalism -- was a temporary zigzag. By the end of the 18th century, the Great French Revolution had taken place in France, which seemed to have approved the Republic more progressive, naturally than the monarchy. However, the time has passed and the monarchy has been reanimated and the monarchists have celebrated, saying that, please, the Republicans have been defeated, but ultimately the Republicans have defeated. And there is now a republic in France, and the whole world welcomes this direction. It will also be followed by a socialist revolution. 1917. A great great socialist revolution. Yes, there were victims that were caused by interventions and counter-revolution, which eventually eliminated the Union and socialism and now brings misery to the people. But the time will pass. I'm sure people will understand that socialism is the best way, better than any good capitalism. This is the case with the experience of Sweden and brotherly Belarus, who live much better because they have a socialist orientation. And I'd pay attention to all intelligence, honest intelligence. Take the example of a student of Fear, a clever man, a highly decent man, a strong will. He was wrong, he said he was wrong for capitalism for a long time, but then he found courage, nobility, and he told the Russian TV that I was wrong, that socialism was the future of humanity, and that it was necessary not to eliminate socialism, but to develop it, to eliminate all the flaws. Dear compatriots, please make the right conclusion for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u158	The word has a national deputy, Bulba, to prepare for Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u159	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. During the years of independence, reforms have destroyed virtually all spheres of social life, especially the future of Ukraine’s scientific losses. Analyzing the individual Presidential decrees and the Cabinet's decrees, it remains to be wondered why there is more misunderstanding of their consequences for Ukraine or the incompetence and irresponsibility of those who prepare these decrees to sign to the Heads of State. Here's an example. On the basis of the decree of the President of Ukraine, the number 177 of February 10 this year and the order of the Kabmin was essentially eliminated from the state service of geodesy and cadastral cartography. The elimination of the State’s geodetic service is a grave mistake in the government’s system of irreparable damage to the economic scientific interests of the State, undermining its security and independence. State geodesic services have steel, clearly defined functions that do not depend on political and economic connectivity and are a mandatory component of countries that claim to be economically developed and have a perspective. From what I've come up with. It should have a state-wide, unmarked subordination. Only under this condition will we be able to preserve the geodetic field of science in Ukraine, to improve our national acquisition, the national geodetic coordinate network, on this basis, to carry out a set of special work to meet the needs of the economy and the economy. Equally important for the security and development of the state is the preservation and strengthening of the military-topographic service. Her absence and collapse have led us to experience tragic situations. For example, sending an aircraft with a Ukrainian airliner to Iran to die without providing the crew with perfect navigational maps. Tragedy in Skniljev, launching a rocket on Brewery, and many other disasters. These are also events that have been promoted primarily by the careless coordination of navigational, military, and economic tasks. By supporting the appeal of a group of geodesist scientists, I ask the President of Ukraine about the need to abolish his decree, by which the elimination of the State Geodesy Service, Cartography and Cadastra was essentially initiated. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u160	The word is given to the deputy of Lukyanka. He'll be followed by the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u161	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, distinguished voters. Leukko Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, on October 31st, you have shown civic activity and have come to the polling stations in a friendly manner. On October 31st, you showed political maturity by giving your voices to Yushchenk, not Yanukovich. You've counted 13 years of life under the authority of the oligarchs who put up Victor Yanukovic's candidacy. This is the person who committed a crime twice and sat in the zone, got out of that zone and has criminal psychology, and this psychology is manifested during the Prime Minister's term. I think you're all citizens, all voters see how this candidature carries its criminal habits all over Ukraine. He is now placing his supporters in various areas of the Donetsk region. If he became president, the whole of Ukraine would turn into a criminal zone. We'll be ashamed. No country in the world or nation in the world has ever chosen a person who twice sat for criminal offences. And we have, thank God, a candidate that comes from all national democratic forces. It's just that the Lord God has helped us in the fact that of all the national democratic forces we have not five candidates that could be, and those people are extremely good, and each of them could be a hundred times better president than Kuchma, but we have one Victor Yushchenk candidate. We are united around this candidature because he is a sincere son of Ukraine, he loves his homeland, and he wants to serve Ukraine, not individual oligarchs, not his personal interests. He's the head of the National Bank and he's one of the best bankers in the world. In his post as Prime Minister, he has shown that he knows how to put people in proper positions, and he can reform our economy. He then paid off the debt that had been accumulated by the previous prime ministers and the governments and the salaries and pensions and everything. Finally, he wanted to bring the shadow economy back to the level of official financial accounts and thereby reduce the shadow economy, thereby bringing billions of dollars back to the budget, that is to say, increase our State budget almost twice. That would mean that both our pensioners and students and employees would get twice as much wages. But the Supreme Council, full of oligarchs, did not go down the shadow economy, but removed Victor Yushchenk himself. So when we citizens choose Victor Yushchenk, we certainly do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u162	The word is given by the National Deputy of School instead of Afiulin. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u163	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to focus first on a few aspects. Well, since I had representatives of the Communist faction speaking here, there's only one thing I'd like to say. I don't want to. Everyone has a point of view, everyone has a position on what's going on. And neutrality in this situation is the support of the candidate who is now Prime Minister. But literally thesis: with Yushchenkov, President, you will have the right to protest, with Yanukovich you will only have the right to arrest. Think about it, and believe what to do with yourself and yours. And to protect the interests of your electorate, to protect the interests of a faithful Communist idea, you can't, simply and clearly, why: because then you will remain unneeded. Next thing I know, I've been preparing questions, so far I haven't got an answer. I wonder how a man who didn't serve in the army, a man who didn't study in a higher education facility with a military pulpit, ended it by default, how could such a person legally get the rank of major of the reserve? To this end, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Prime Minister himself answer this question, because when I read a biography of Prime Minister Yanukovic's presidential candidate, I asked myself this question: How can I, without serving in the army and without the military department, become just an officer and also a major? Because when you become a professor, this is clearly left to the conscience of those who voted in favour of such an appointment, it is a subjective assessment of people who trade in their academic degrees, their conscience and their honor, that is their question. But how can you become a stockpiling major? There are people who have served in the army, people who have passed at least the military department, and they realize that in order to become an officer after a higher education facility, you have to pass military meetings, you have to become one who has the right to carry weapons. Because the people who went to criminal school, the schools where they were deprived of their will, never anywhere in any country, were given arms. They took it themselves, and then maybe they were responsible for other articles, 222 and so on. So how could it be that in the rule of law today, the current prime minister criminally held the rank of major of the reserve? Because if he wore it legally, I would have, at least a month and a half ago, answered my perfectly legitimate request. It bothers me and my voters who repeatedly ask me, "Why and how could this person who was accused of serious crimes -- and it doesn't matter if she was acquitted or not -- is this another question -- how could she have been named Major?" How can I now look at the faces of the majors who have earned this title under other conditions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u164	Don't be jealous. The major's not that high of a title anymore. Please, Stoyan. After him, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u165	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, "Regions of Ukraine". Today, one of our colleagues in Ukraine accused me of having the moral right to do something today when I was number two in "Our Ukraine." I want voters, Ukrainian citizens, to know the truth about why I left our Ukraine. I want Ukrainian citizens to know the truth about the moral responsibility of many of the deputies in "Our Ukraine." In fact, when I was number two, I went with Victor Andryovich, and I truly believed Victor Andryovich. He's a decent man, he's a European man. And we went with him to tell people, "We'll make you new pensions, new wages, we'll pay you back the savings." I wasn't the passenger who came on the train, like most of our Ukraine, where Victor Yushchenko was a locomotive. Victor Andryovich and I went through 80 percent of Ukraine, and I always spoke to another, and I talked about the social program. I had a lot to say, because I was twice a national MP, I was the head of the Federation of Trades, I passed 50 laws, and I believed that "Our Ukraine," which got the largest number of deputies, would decide to run that social program that we went through. And the first thing I did, I passed eleven social laws, there were pensions, there was a minimum wage, there were savings. I asked for our Ukraine, support us, because this is our horse, we promised people. And what do you think, I give the law one, I roll, I pass the second law, I roll. One example. I'm passing a bill that the salary would be the primary payment, and then there would be no debt on the salary. A distinguished Pinzenik is speaking, my colleague, and I say, "Don't do this, producers, for you will be in the debt pit." And they don't take the law. I could say more examples. And I realized that many in "Our Ukraine" didn't need people, they didn't need social programs. They were originally set up for political action, for the election of the president. And that means the worse Ukraine is, the better it is for them. And I'm sorry today that you've made a decent man, Victor Andryovich, your flag. He didn't have to go with them. And today this person is sick. He's got little kids, and you're pushing him in the back, throwing away big money, because you need a job, you need new factories, you need new factories. Look who's around Viktor Andryovich. Look at these sugar magnets, look at those eagles. Who's surrounding him? The people of Ukraine, the citizens of Ukraine, are shocked. Yushchenko's not coming, Yushchenka's being pushed. When you choose Yushchenka, you will receive the very bad oligarchs. And here comes Janukovic, Janukovic, who first solves social issues. What are you saying, Janukovich? Even in Communist times, when the child was wrong, she was given the opportunity to make amends. And today you, Democrats, are now accusing young Yanukovich of his mistakes. That's how it works. Young people, listen, if you make a mistake, these Democrats will never save you. People are good, make choices. Janukovic is the man who was.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u166	Korsakov has the word. Yavorowski will follow him. I can't see Korsak. Then please, Yavorowski. For Yavorovsky Bespaliya.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u167	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Jovkowski, Yavorovsky district, which gave the most votes in Ukraine, for the new Ukrainian president, Victor Yushchenk. The venerable red Peter Simonnka, the venerable sun-orange, and this is the color of democracy and the hope of Victor Yushchenk and the blue Stoyan, I was going to tell you what was going on in the hundredth central district that the apocalypse there was in power, but Stoyan's speech made me go to this rostrum to change the subject. There's something out there that says to the man who sings, "Can you hear the trumpets playing?" Then I will not be bound with you, Mr. Shurma, for you have voted against all children. All the laws we voted for children -- you voted against them. And that's me. the idea that the Esdeans will no longer reproduce, and the glory of God. But I want to answer Stoyan. Mr. Stoyan, you won't blame me for having sugar factories and I want something from Victor Yushchenk. In 13 years, in 14, or 15 of my political activities, I have everything I had before, even my wife with me, if that's the case. Because I want to tell you, I won the Majority District, so I have a moral right to say that in a way and on my shoulders I brought you to this Parliament. And don't pretend that someone didn't want to vote against anything, today I want all the people to know that you betrayed "Our Ukraine" in order to grab a briefcase of the head of the union to sit there a little bit longer. And believe me, we're going to win this election, and we're going to get to the unions, we are today. Millions of people do not voluntarily pay their social contributions, and they are counted. Where does this money go? No one knows. What happened to the colossal property that was made by the people in Ukraine? Where is this property today? It's still gonna have to be done, it's gonna have to be very clear. That's why you've been betrayed. And let the people know that you have betrayed, and the place for the traitors, you know. You think Yanukovic will love you for it. I don't think he'll like it the same way. I'm finishing my speech. People, Ukrainians, you got out of your knees when you weren't threatened, you weren't intimidated, you weren't intimidated, you weren't even shot, you were shot, and you were shot in front of Yushchenko by 25,000 votes. We will win the Ukraine, we must win, and we will win, and Yushchenko will be president.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u168	The word has a national MP, Bespalij, to prepare Fomenko Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u169	Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Honorable fellow Ukrainians, citizens of Ukraine, voted largely peacefully and in the vast majority according to their conscience for their own preferences. Disorganized only by the authorities. It was amazed with lists, that tourists with packs of resilients traveled, that copying protocols, which may still be going on. In short, the falsification of power, the very power of elections, was so transparent that there is good reason to define these choices at the same time as forged and transparent. The other one. Who finally won the first round? I think, and it's obvious to everyone that the five-day silence of the CBC on election results is more eloquent than any information that might have sounded. Undoubtedly, both CBC data and all other calculations are parallel, perpendicular, and otherwise false. Victor Yushchenko won the first round, but ahead of the second round. And we need to protect our choice in the second round. How can you do that? This requires national mobilization. How? On November 13-14, we agree "Our Ukraine" with the Ukrainian Electoral Committee, come to a thorough electoral review. A thorough check, I stress that you have the right to check the polling lists at the polling stations not only for yourself, but also for the neighbors, all the polling lists. 20, before that, look again, because power between 13 and 21 can play again. But, of course, it's the last time. The twenty - one is sure to come to the election. It's got to be everyone's choice. Next. All election committees are known. In accordance with the Presidential Elections Act, who wants to vote hard, is obliged to register by election day, including. [[Article 34, paragraph 9]] Until the day. I mean, not later than 20. Twenty - one of the toughest to hand out is a violation. So, citizens of honor, there is every possibility of free will and free will to stand up for their choice, regardless of Victor Yanukovich's refusal to debate. Well, I'm actually very understanding about his refusal, because it's clear that I'm not going to tell him anything. At least I'd come and listen to Victor Andryovich. And especially to the honest supporters of the Communists. Know that unlike you, the top of the IPU will play a role in the government. And yesterday, along with the Yanks, she broke the law, where the lists could be corrected on the district boards, and in doing so, it made it difficult for millions of citizens to be elected. All for election and victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, don't argue. I'm the only one I'm asking to use parliamentary statements because I'm going to turn off the microphone. Please, Fomenka. Prepare Karnauhu. There's no Karnauk. It's Barranian. Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u171	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we all understand that the political situation is getting worse. And unfortunately, it's going to get worse and worse. But I want to draw your attention to the next thing that's going on in the regions. Recently, a campaign to discriminate against the head of the Luhansk district government of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich, has been launched at the initiative of individual national deputies. The General Prosecutor’s Office was addressed to the People’s Deputy Karmazin, in which, without any justification, no fact was confirmed, on the ground that Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich was accused of committing a serious crime. The press has produced slanderous publications that directly refer to the head of the administration as a criminal. However, the information contained in case number 9118, broken by the prosecutor’s office, is reported for facts that do not have a direct bearing on Efraemov Aleksandra Sergiyovich. Using the materials of the case and twisting them, individual editions, such as the Freedom newspaper, the Lugans have launched a targeted campaign against the head of the Luhansk Authority. The publication shows that the case material was made public by law enforcement authorities in violation of the law. My dear fellows, I appeal to you, the election is coming and ending, but we need to stay human, especially if you've been elected a national deputy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u172	Yes, the word has been given to the national MP of Barani. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u173	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear national MPs, our constituents! For many years a long - suffering generation of people who had been named in the nation as children of war who had endured the hardships of war, lost their parents, raised in many kindergartens, survived under bombs and the whistling of bullets, struggled long to be recognized, given the status of these children as nonparticipating children, even though they were brought closer to it. Fighting for their rights, they joined together into an organization called the All-U.S. Social Union "Protection of the Children of War". On October 24, Kiev hosted the Third All - Ukrainian Conference for the Protection of Children of War. I was present at this conference. gathered, more than 445 delegates arrived, representing 700,000. The members of this organization. And they entrusted me with an appropriate address to the Ukrainian national deputies, which I would like to do now. "The People's Deputies of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania. Addressing delegates to the Third Conference of the All-U.S. Civil Society Organization "Protection of Children of War." Dear National Deputies, Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are approached by the representatives of a generation whose childhood has been plagued by war. As a child, we had to face hunger and cold. We were born and raised under bombbreaks, under the terrible five invaders, in the barracks ’ tightness and diseases of forced evacuation. The burden of postwar reconstruction lay on the shoulders. Without knowing our happy childhood, we did not know full - time youth. Today, most of us are in our 60 ’ s. The horrors we experienced as a child cast their impressions on our lives, especially on our old age, which is accompanied by a disease. We, the 445 delegates, represent more than 700-thousand organizations that aim to achieve the legislative protection of a population such as children of war. The problem of children of war is not just our problem, it's the problem of society as a whole, it's ultimately a problem of a state that has failed to create proper living conditions for those who have experienced severe psychological and physical trauma as a child, suffering from malnutrition and disease. On behalf of all children of war, we express our sincere thanks to the Ukrainian National Deputies, personally to the Supreme Council of Volodymyr Mikhailovich Lithuania, for the fact that the draft Law on the Protection of War Children was adopted in the first reading. We, the delegates of the conference, ask the people's deputies, the Head of the Supreme Council, to make every effort to complete the review and approval of the law. We hope that Parliament will for the first time in the history of Ukraine will understand the problems of the disadvantaged generation of children of war, which has earned the support and gratitude of society, care and care of the state. And, dear friends, I want to add that there is no politics here, no matter who fought where their parents were, children are children. They're the children of our country. And so I would like to turn to ourselves to support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u174	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Kirilchuk. He's in charge. I can't see. Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u175	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko I personally spent the entire night in the polling stations, in the territorial election committee of the 31st, and I faced thousands of problems that fell on the shoulders of the district election committees, the territorial commissions and the electorates in particular. The question arises: Who is responsible under the law for the preparation of lists, for the preparation of polling stations. And who took responsibility before the law in front of the voters for these failures? The full responsibility was placed on the executive branch. Every head of the district administration knew that all the lists checked by local representative bodies were the heads of village councils, village councils, city councils. And under those lists that were submitted to the district election committee, their signature is sealed. Who has confused all these lists, and why has all this been done? For what, 25 percent was thrown out, at least, of the people on the lists, in some areas, just 50 percent of the voters on the sticky ones, and those who live are not on the lists. I'm talking to the citizens. There are three articles in the Criminal Code for which a person should be guilty of this public crime, for having lost his constitutional right to vote, each such electorate has the right to file an application with the Public Prosecutor’s Office in order to bring the guilty to justice. And they will be held accountable, if not today, tomorrow. Because the protocols on this issue are more than enough. I don't speak for the facts when boxes are stolen, when protocols fail, when commission heads disappear, and no one is responsible. Because of this, it is literally necessary for those who have been humiliated and bereaved to write a statement to the prosecutor’s office in order to find and punish the guilty. This is no longer the case, for on November 21, this will all come to an end. Viktor Yushchenko lost at least 10 - 15 percent of his votes because of these poor people. And we know that they will be renewed -- and victory will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u176	The word has been given to the national deputy of Spivacuk. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin I would like to quote yesterday's newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine", where it is very clear and clear: "Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovic asks - appears, asks! - the law enforcement authorities give a proper assessment of the involvement of local authorities in the electoral struggle." This and this request can only be applauded, for not only from this rostrum but also from this rostrum has spoken many words about gross violations of the electoral legislation. Ukraine's Election of the President of Ukraine Act is on the part of a successful candidate. And I'd say yes, there's an officer's notion of "I have the honour." So if this was really an honor, it's obvious that one of the candidates could have been removed from the registration three months ago. [[We won't call it a last name, you all know it.]] Simply for exceeding the electoral fund, for violating the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Well, it's not in our state. So from this point of view, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we're constantly violating both legislation and acts that are adopted by, as it were, ministries and departments, and it's always aimed at humiliation, I'd say, human dignity. Lately. What do I mean? In recent times, a number of higher education institutions in Ukraine have been subject to a number revision - forgive - 450 Ministry of Education of Ukraine about the time limits for the calculation of the workload in teaching work. All of this is done in the form of, as it were, economy, in the form of shorter or more faithful, in order to get to the reduction of states and so on, and so on and so forth. In this connection, I would like the Ministry of Education of Ukraine to pay attention today to the implementation of its regulations so that in no way can local leaders be allowed to abuse people. And please consider this part of my speech as an official request to the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u178	The word has been given to the national MP Tomenko. Prepare Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u179	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I think we should focus on a few problems, the first round of the presidential election campaign, in order not to allow these mistakes not only in the second round, but in general in the next election process. One day we forgot about this feature of the Ukrainian electoral campaign, when about twenty individuals who boldly called themselves presidential candidates completed an electoral campaign of between five and fifty thousand voters. These people, at the expense of money, told of how courageous, politically strong, and largely used power to discredit the opposition political forces, values and unity of the country, directly fueled international hostility. I am absolutely convinced that such things should not be forgotten and should be responded to. I am convinced that these people would have to apologize to the Ukrainian people for having lied during the first round, and they won several thousand votes at a time when they officially cast more than 500,000 votes. They used government resources, they signed documents that were there, and postcards for which they should be held criminally responsible. I am convinced that at least three of the presidential candidates who directly claimed to be responsible should bear criminal responsibility for the political advertisement cards of this nature. I mean Roman Kozak, Alexander Basiluk and Alexander Jacobenko. They were happy to say that we were in favor of dividing Ukraine into three classes for the Ukrainians to evict Russians or Jews. These things need to be taken care of. And I hope that the law enforcement structures will respond. The second problem to be said is what is happening today especially in Central Ukraine. Today, the leadership of Central Ukraine has launched a frenzying company to destroy those lower-level leaders who have failed to secure the results proved by the figures of Viktor Yanukovic. I have documents, such as in Sumski district, where several leading agrofirms have been arrested, including the village of Tousté - Mishchenko, the village of Ganyovka. Rivsky - Glazun, cases against Nephrodov’s Jury of the Death of Yellow. In the Sumskie district of Szczerbán, who knows the experience, came from Donetsk, active, he decided to act in this way: who of the local leaders failed to implement the plan - should be in prison. And this trend today is in both Cherkaske and Poltava and Kirovograd. I want those names that he called to go in the form of a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office, and to the local leaders who today fear that the winners are not being judged, the local authorities would like to say that your leaders have bought apartments long ago, if not in Kiev, then in Cyprus, they've taken land here in the Vodice Desert. You know, the governor from the Cherkas region more hectares got here, the mayor more hectares got, they're going to run to Kiev or Cyprus, and you're going to be responsible as school principals and local organizations, so I would urge everyone to think about the law and then the criminal orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u180	I just want to remind you that those MPs who have gained little, they put another 500,000 into the state budget, probably on the basis of that 500,000 they did something. Yes, please, Manchulenka. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u181	George Manchulenko, 203rd constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka block. Dear Chief, Dear Colleagues, first of all, I would like to express and express my deep gratitude to my fellow countrymen, who have been very conscious and have given a very high appearance during the first round of voting, October 31st, and have given a very high result -- almost 70% in support of Victor Yushchenk, and a special thanks to my electorate, my constituency, who have given the highest result in support of Victor Yuschenk's candidacy within the region of Montenegro. Dear friends, honourable voters, I want to address the various political parties that are in our Ukraine with a call. Despite not being told by party leaders, to come to the election on November 21st on the second round and vote on your conscience, to vote in favour of the candidate who has actually won the first round. Because you can build your party structures properly with this candidate, you can feel normal about the law in Ukraine. Victor Yushchenko is such a candidate. In the opposite election, you will have laws that do not live in democratic countries, where there is a dictatorship of understanding and dictatorship of those structures that are used to acting on understanding and dictate their will. I'm talking to the people who are in the heathens, the people who are in the interior ministry system, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service. I strongly believe that most people in these structures are decent people, patriots of the Ukrainian state. And those people who are involved in dirty provocations are an absolute minority, but they will be punished. I don't think such people are worthy to wear the drives of coworkers of one or the other force structures if they're involved in dirty provocations. The honest coworkers of these structures will be provided with adequate career growth and how this should be in a normal democratic state. Because despite the intense pressure that has been exerted so far and continues to be exerted, including the involvement of individual officers of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office, they are now walking in the areas and checking why they did not vote in the military and tell us how to vote properly. That's not gonna happen. The people have already made their choice. The Ukrainian people do not want to be on their knees anymore. The Ukrainian people rise from their knees, and they win. And the Chinese, the inhabitants of our capital, arrive on Saturday at 13 a.m. on the Independence Course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u182	The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine, and the following is given by Sokirko to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u183	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. On October 8th, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I was asked by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yanukovic, for the lack of budgetary assignments in the Ukraine State Budget 2005 project to implement the provisions ratified by Ukraine of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities and to provide the Council of Europe with a letter of ratification of the Charter. Following my repeated requests and requests, it was found that in Ukraine there was an artificial, deliberate process of depositing to the Council of Europe a document on ratification by Ukraine of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. On June 20th, under pressure from the public and deputy prime minister of Ukraine, Yanukovic was duly instructed by the five central executive authorities to provide for the 2005 State Budget and the subsequent years for the implementation of the Charter. But the study of the draft budget proved that this commission was not properly executed. That's why I asked. First. Give the commission to check the status of the Prime Minister of Ukraine's tasks by his subordinate ministries. And the second. Ensure that the mandate of June 24 is fulfilled, particularly in the part of the definition of the main body, which would coordinate the proper work of all ministries and offices on the matter. I also asked the appropriate authorities of the central executive authorities to provide me with the necessary funds for each of them and in general for the implementation of the Charter. After all, I received an answer from the Cabinet of Ministers on November 4. But it was signed by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on humanitarian matters by Dmitr Tobacco. If I don't want to take away the global part of this answer, I'm going to quote the main positions. First. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has refrained from transferring a depository of instrument ratification to the full resolution of issues related to ensuring its implementation in Ukraine in order to avoid possible misunderstandings regarding the full implementation by our State of its international legal obligations. Come on, let's go. Keep going. In this regard, it should be noted that the Ukrainian International Contracts Act and the Vienna Convention of 69 do not set a time limit for depositing ratification documents. Conclusion: Our government does not want this document to be properly funded and deposited with the Council of Europe. So I ask Adam Ivanovich to consider my speech to be a re-deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u184	The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. He's got Lebedivsky on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u185	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank my native Odessa for staying unruly despite the mass bribe: at each office, a minimum of 400 dollars was paid by a member of the commission. And it's been rewritten today, it's being set up today, but it's true that the D.A. doesn't want to investigate it or see it. Why? It is better, then, to give the instruction of the Lion to walk and find out how to vote. It is best to do what Tomenko said today when he shows what the Governor of Sumam is doing with the Donetsk past. In the area, all the leaders, excluding one small employee in the Internal Affairs Department, all of them from Donetsk, are taken. Doesn't everyone realize that's what's gonna happen next?Oh, my God! From this area, look at how many ballots were thrown, how many ballots were prepared to throw for Yanukovich. I'm asking you to investigate to the end of the matter, and I've asked the MP today. Two weeks ago, the president of Ukraine officially opened the Kiev-Odessa motor pool, and handed public prizes to the builders. Of course, this road is large and state-owned and international, but under the government's guarantee a foreign loan of 480 million is involved. Money, or two and a half billion dollars, will then be counted for which we should start the second February 2005 treaty. And we're not going to see the beginning of the population, because there's not a parallel car built, so the state budget has to be calculated. For construction, not for reconstruction, as stated in the law that we passed on June 4, 2003, the own funds of the Crucibles were over half a billion dollars at the expense of the release of corporate interest bonds, which were then reimbursed by Crucibles, Ukrawtodor, and already at the expense of the State Budget Special Fund. Who will explain to me the relevance of this scheme? According to the information I have, in the course of this reconstruction, there were numerous violations, both financial and financial, higher prices for material and technical resources, the cost of work done, Expenses, gross violations of land, water, forest legislation. 11 rivers are in trouble. on the question of destruction. The Odessa region alone is full of such requests and complaints. Dear Adam Ivanovich, please consider this part of my statement as a request to the Attorney General's Office and to the Audit Chamber. Now, with regard to that remark, the remarks that Catherine Fomenko made today in defense of the governor of the Luhansk region of Ephraim. There's one thing I can tell him and all the other governors: you don't have to steal, you don't have to ask questions. This is the first time. Secondly, as a national MP, I need to know why the Attorney General refuses to investigate where seven million in this case have gone missing. I asked you from this rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u186	Yes, Lebedowski. I can't see. Polishchuk, Odynik, Cibenko, please, Peter Stepanovich, and we will finish. Right. Puzakov is the one who gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u187	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Minister of Internal Affairs of the Bilocon recently pointed out that the main concern of law enforcement is the service of the people, and when one of the law enforcement officers doesn't realize it, he's not on his way with them. From now on, the effectiveness of the work of a militiaman will be evaluated, not by figures, but by society's attitude to it, or image, it's called. Recently, however, the minister himself admitted that people were being tortured in his revenge. It would seem, after such an ashtray, spread on television and in the press, the law enforcement agencies will stop beating people and torture. Oh, come on! For example, in the village of Boutice, Alexandria, in Kirovgrad, law enforcement authorities placed the head of the farm in the insulator. The fox Mikhail. They needed to destroy it, and they were ordered to take away the high - quality elite wheat of the new crop. Like locusts, eight cars immediately came for the wheat. But the people became a wall and expelled the invaders. People in despair that an innocent person wants to rot in an investigative isolation. Does Mr. Bilocon know about this? A terrible incident also occurred in the village of Vasilyvka, in the valley region. In barbaric fashion, he was beaten with his feet, by the legs of a Vassilian farm worker, Mikola Zeprechat, because he became an unwitting witness when he was mugged by the authorities and the law enforcement agencies. After all, he was threatened not to complain, not to take his beatings away. Maybe he wouldn't have done it himself, because he was constantly experiencing terrible moral pressure -- he was made by an older sister. The active members of the Police of the Sharps and the Shepherds, who had beaten the Infatuation, felt what it could do, even though they were not very afraid. [[in quotes]] What do you think? From the public prosecutor’s office where the complaint was filed, the answer came that a criminal case had been dismissed in connection with the absence of a criminal record. Little wonder, though, that the guards were beaten. What, do law enforcement today have only such methods of work — blackmail, disability, murder, suspicion, and money laundering? And are you, Mr. Minister, building a so-called democratic state or do you raise the image of the militia? [[in quotes]] I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to consider my speech as a parliamentary request to the Minister of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u188	Please, Orzhachowski. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u189	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, voters, in my speech, I would like to draw the voter's attention to the negative reaction of government officials, local government officials to parliamentary inquiries. As you know, demand is an effective form of the influence of the people's advocates on the activities of power in the center and in the places. In recent years, while in Hersonish, I have been in villages, villages, with problems sent by MPs. Clearly, he saw the quality of the answers given. She is impressed by the lie. For example. There was a problem of insufficient preparation for the heating season in the village of Kalanczak. [[Kudri]] Deputy Prime Minister Kluev reported that the issue of heating apartments is controlled, credit arrangements are being made to install auto-heating veterans, are being made available to residents of multiple floors of electronic heaters. In fact, the loans ended, no one met with people, no heaters and no language, and the prospect of boilers, it turns out, is in its sales. The owners say that 42 families of pensioners have lost their warmth. I'm saying about 100. Another example. The demand for problems of maintaining multi-story buildings in the village of Brilovka Tsurupina district. According to the authorities, two houses are being repaired to repair the roof of the houses found in the area. I've made sure that's not true. So I'm asking, who are the authorities looking after? Is it about yourself? There is no doubt about it. So I'd like to ask you another question from the questions raised to Mr. Clovis, requiring you to move from words to action. I'm sorry. My countrymen never realized that they were in trouble because of their present system of power. The system that was worth fighting for during the elections was Soviet, promoted by Peter Simonenko, who would guarantee and provide you with a proper life. You have supported the leaders of the Kravczuk, Kuchma, U.S. leaders, those who destroyed the village, the city, and the morals. Given that we are ahead of the 87th anniversary of the Great October, I welcome all those who honor this date to remember what strengthened our international Soviet Ukraine to unite the nations. I think Yellow's ideas are going to be taken out like left-wing leaders and left-wing programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u190	Yes, dear colleagues, all who wanted to take part in the presentation on the "Various" issue had this opportunity. The names were mentioned here in the course of the discussion. Please, a line. Stojan is a minute. The storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u191	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Trades. Dear citizens of Ukraine! One of the colleagues from "Our Ukraine" testified to who was surrounded by Victor Yushchenk and what these people wanted. Even before they come to power, they are already running trade unions. Moreover, while not in power, their representative, Czernovecki, passed a bill on the privatization of Ukrainian trade unions' assets. Thus, Ukrainian citizens, if this law is supported by our Ukraine, you will no longer be able to rest in professional health centres, which is over 600,000 people. Here's the real deal. What's more, I've had to work with ten governments. And no government has resolved such social issues as the government of Yanukovic has. That is why, for the first time in 10 years, the Federation of Trades has decided to support Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic himself. I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. Make a conscious choice, for it is a man of conscience, a man of honor, and a man of fulfillment. With him will be normal pensions, normal payouts, and jobs for people, and believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u192	Please, Shurma's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u193	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, quote, "Thank you. Corbut. In her work “In my house I am not alone,” she showed Shevchenk not in the painted multitude of artists a push hat or a traditionally uncovered head, but in a hat similar to that of the rebels in November 17 and in which Lenin himself walked.” It was Javorowski who put Shevchenk in Lenin’s hat because he was a Communist at the time. It was then that he betrayed the party three times and jumped one to the other. And that's what you're lighting up, Mr. Yavorowski, hostility, because I voted for my children so that they wouldn't be raised on those standards of sweet words of treachery that you're advertising. With regard to property, ask your extraverted asteroid without a dog’s booth, which was run by trade unions, where the property was stolen. And as for the color, Yanukovich has a blue color. And your pigeons or your lovebirds are perversions that have nothing in common.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u194	Yeah, we're done. Yavorowski was remembered. Yavorowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u195	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Mr. Shurma, first of all, I'm very grateful that he reads me. I feel like this is the first thing he's read in his life, which is why he remembers so well, and I think it's the last thing. And what I'm saying is, my wise settler father taught me, Mr. Shurma, in situations like this, to act with people like you, and with the methods you use, you don't have to argue, because smart people don't see the difference between us. And I think smart people have seen the difference between you and me. Thank you. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-05-m0.u196	Yes, dear colleagues, today we have all the problems to solve in a legislative way. I remind you that on November 9th at the morning meeting, the government day will be held. The question we are hearing is about the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine concerning the proper level and timely payment of wages. On November 10-12, people's deputies work in committees, factions and groups. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on November 16th. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
