ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:43]] Registered -410 There were 410 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, two years of age have now been completed as a starting point for the time spent by the Constitution of Ukraine for the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. In time, it is a rubble that determines in many ways the productivity of Parliament's activities. I don't think it's necessary to evaluate the effectiveness of Parliament's work, you can do it yourself. I would just like to inform you that, during this period, 1,579 bills have been tabled by Parliament, a total of 590 laws have been passed and the state is now signed by the President of Ukraine, and 538 laws have been enacted, including the five Civil Codes, the Master Codes, the Customs Codes, the Criminal Enforcement and the Civil Procedures Code. More detailed information on the results of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the preceding period will be given to the leaders of the MP factions and groups, as well as to the heads of the committees at the Conciliation Council of the Deputies factions of the groups on 17 May 2004. I would like to analyze the effectiveness of our work and draw conclusions for the longer term. I think we all hope that the next half of our terms of reference will be more productive. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, article 4.2.1 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules and the protocol for the meeting of the Ukrainian Deputies of the "Region of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 13 May 2004, issue 90 provides information on the expulsion of Ukrainian national deputies, Damien Petrovich, Nasalika Igor Stepanovič and Dušnak Sergija Mikolayovič from the "Region of Ukraine" faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Karatumanov Oleg Juriovich, is a member of the Socialist Democratic Party's parliamentary faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, paragraph 6 of article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the minutes of the joint meeting of the Democratic Initiatives groups, the People's Authority of 12 May 2004, I inform you of the formation of a new united parliamentary group "Democratic Initiatives of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Democratic Initiatives of the Peoples of Ukraine is a group of 30 national deputies. To represent the Democratic Initiatives of the Peoples of the State, the National Deputies of Ukraine-Havrish, Hubsky, Bandurku, Gurova, Demjochina, Karpova, Mokrousova, Osik, Remenuka, Reznika, Sandler, Sváša. Dear National Deputies, we agreed that today we would have a time to speak from factions with statements, reports, information. I'm asking the heads of the MPs and factions to apply for the speech, and in the meantime, I'm going to announce the requests that have come. National deputies of Ukraine have arrived. Groups of national deputies to the President of Ukraine on the normalization of the judicial system. [[MOSESIC, ASADZOV, and others. Total 7 deputies]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:00]] For-141 Request not supported. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine for the award of the title Hero of Ukraine to the World Boxing Championship in a super-heavy category under the version of the World Boxing Confederation, Vitalia Klicka. [[10:05:33]] For 180. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:56]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Stepan Cloud to the President of Ukraine regarding the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the early termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Sergio Kiwalov, in connection with his violation of the requirements of nonconformity of the status of a member of the Central Electoral Commission with his membership in the High Council of Justice. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:33]] For 114 Request not supported. Petra SIMONENKA to the President of Ukraine for the completion of a memorial complex for heroic defenders and liberators of the city of Sevastopol during the Great Homeland War on Cape Krustalny. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:04]] For 114 Request not supported. Petra Toloczka to the President of Ukraine regarding the granting of status to the National Museum of National Decorative Art. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:33]] For 111 Request not supported. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of secondary school No.4 in Kirovské Donetské region. Mikli KUKARCHUKA to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for renovations at the Mikli Island Memorial Museum in the village of Willia Ravenska County in connection with the marking at the state level 100 years after the birth of an outstanding humanist writer. Victor MIRONENCY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Transport which conflict with the Constitution, Ukrainian legislation, the interests of the economy and the population of Ukraine. Olga GINZBURG to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of the payment for the conversion of documents to inheritance in the event of the death of one of the spouses. TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine, Paul BEBREWS, concerning the halting of the deployment of a reserve of leaders serving the passenger trains of the Zitomirian formation. Tarasa ČORNOVILA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the requirements of article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code in the preparation and issuance of decrees by the Cabinet of Ministers: No. 506 of April 19, 2004 and No. 510 of April 19, 2004. Julius TIMOSHENKO and Michael VOLINC to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the calculation of tariff rates and salaries due to the increase in minimum wage. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the ownership of the Russian Federation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mr. Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the damage caused by the commercial passenger transport of vehicles by the Rhine region. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to the reply of the Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine to a request from 6 February 2004 for the indexation and return of deposits by 2 January 1992 “Prominestbank” of Ukraine. Mr. Stanislawa NICOLAENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient water supply, which could lead to outbreaks of infectious diseases in Hersoniania. Mr. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for drinking water to residents of the city of Špola Cherkas region. John STANDS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the public activities of the Constitution of Ukraine and the language legislation of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on humanitarian issues. Mr Stanisława NIKOLAENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of locust distribution in Hersonian fields. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons that hinder the effective work of the government commission to study the activities of the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization, the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, and to publish conclusions that will facilitate the adoption of relevant legislation on public reconciliation. Valeria Suščević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Ukrainian President's Order and the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to improve the living conditions of the Paralympic Sportsman in Sydney, Sergey Atamanenka. Jurya LUCENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the University of Kiev to the Ministry of Education and Science. Vladimir DEMOJIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on property belonging to the former USSR Military and Thinking Society, located in Ukraine. Mr. Mikhail POLANČIČECH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine, on the problems of transferring the property complex of the Burdyak Special Forces of the Ternopil region to the municipal property of local self-government authorities. Ms. MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for damage caused by the denial in 1998 and bureaucratic treatment of the requests of the National MP. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the allocation of subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects under the Kitzman Electoral Region No. 203. Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the teaching corps of the National University of Cherka. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on the return of devalued cash savings invested in the institution of the Savings Bank of the former USSR. Oleg GRACHEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an eternity in Kiev, remembers three times the Hero of the Soviet Union, John Kožedub. ROBERT to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding for the rehabilitation of children in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine 2000-2005. Vladimir NOVAKA and Vitalia OLUYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the repair of the Mikli Ostrovsky Museum in Shepetovka in connection with the 100th anniversary of the writer's birth. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources on the use of unlawfully alienated houses and land in the area of the “Friendship” sanatorium in Odessa, the provision to citizens living in its territory, the constitutional right to housing, and the improper execution of a previous parliamentary request on these matters. Anatolia Seminoga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of State budget subsidies to local projects in 2004. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to improve the work of the Poltava District Sanatorium for children with motor-powered diseases. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal discovery of a criminal case by the authorities of the State Tax Administration concerning the entrepreneur Anatolia Mamchenka. Gregory OMELZENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the current legislation of Ukraine and the terms and conditions of the competition for the sale of a package of shares of an open stock company “Ingletski mining and enrichment company”. A group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case by way of exceeding official powers, service negligence, the arbitrary assignment of authority or the appointment of an official, self-government, falsification of documents, seals, stamps and forms, their sale, the use of forged documents, fraud by a citizen of Okolitenko, individual employees of the Ministry of Justice, the Chief Interregional Bureau of Statistics in Kiev. [[KOSIOV, POLISH, BONDAR, AND OTHERS]] JOURIA PAULENKA to the Attorney General regarding the legal evaluation of the administration of the Kyiv City State Administration for the demolition of uninhabited premises on the street of Pushkinska in Kiev. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of the prosecutorial review of our bank's stockholders' activities and on the question of bringing to justice the bank's managers who caused him material damage as a result of illegal financial transactions. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Darnitsky District State Administration of Kyiv, Gnydin village head of the Kyiv District of Borispilland, for unlawful actions by a limited-liability “Ukrainian Building Alliance” regarding the gardening society “Prince Zaton”. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of examining information about the different times of the criminal responsibility of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the theft of property in a company with limited liability “Ternian Sugar Plant” in the Suma region. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the constitutional rights of the head of the State-owned drug company “Transfamation” of the city of Lviv and the prevention of illegal privatization of state property. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the violation of effective legislation by the Open Shareholders Association “Optéplocomunnergo”. Stepan BULBY to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of claims made by residents of the city of Kremenczuk Poltavska oblast regarding the activities of the criminal group and the use of measures to restore legality. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal actions of the authorities of the Kyiv district of Simferopol on the offence of the possession of weapons by a citizen of Moses. Andrija SKILLA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for drawing on the responsibility of the Director - General of the Lviv District Broadcasting Company in connection with the creation of obstacles to the activities of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy. Boris BESPALO to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the decision of the District Court of Chernigiv district regarding ownership of the land. MIKOLI ONISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the establishment of a criminal offence by the prosecutor of Kyiv regarding officials of the rental company “Examplepex”. Mr. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for obstacles to the work of the officials of the law enforcement agencies of the Donetsk region. JOURIA PAVLENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the problems surrounding the liquidation of the Kostinov Chávonov factory in the Donetsk region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the investigation of a robbery attack for the purpose of murder in May 2001 in the city of Dolinský Kirovograd. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the review of the activities of prosecutors, which contribute to the failure of the Kyrovograd Regional Court to implement a decision on the allocation to the State budget of $2.4 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. and the failure to respond to the request of the Special Monitoring Commission to verify the existence of signs of crime in the actions of officials of the Open Shareholders Association “Clean Metals”. To the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vladimir YAWORIY, for delaying the General Prosecutor’s Office’s criminal case against a group of individuals involved in the production and use of the forged sealing of the National Writer Association of Ukraine, made it possible to produce a fraudulent way of printing the Society’s additional sealing, to try to block the Society’s bank accounts, and to create obstacles to the receipt of mail correspondence. VICTOR KING to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a violation by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of criminal cases involving the perpetrators of events in Mukacheva. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for acts of vandalism against the monuments of Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin in Cherkaščina. VICTOR BORSCHEVSKI to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the appeal of members of the Crimson City Council to a conflict situation in the city, which resulted in an annual technical survey of road transport in connection with the mandatory prior monitoring of their private diagnostic sites, which led to a significant increase in payment for services. GREGORY TO the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the results of the “overturn” trial. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the preservation of the function of the “Dinamo” athletic stadium and for the development of the physical and sports industry in Odessa. Sergey BICHKOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the establishment and maintenance of places of fornication and visiting the residence of Dnipropetrovska and the improper performance by law enforcement officials of their duty to terminate the functions of the institution. Mr. Tomenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs for Information on the Criminality of Viktor Janukovič. Vladimir Anishtuk to the Minister of Justice for failure by officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the Shevchenk district of the administration of the justice of the city of Kiev to execute the decision of the Odessa garrison military court. Mr. Mikhail VOLINZA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the constitutional rights of teachers by the Department of State Executive Services of the District Department of Justice of the Chernigiv Region. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to execute the court's decision to collect the debt on a paid basis from a limited-liability society called the “Chuguy Fuel Apparatus”. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the collection of debt on earnings from the “Pavlovské” stock company for the benefit of the resident of the village of Artemiuk Poltavsk. Vladimir NOVAK to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the violation of constitutional rights for the residence of Mary Immortal’s many - year - old family in the city of Hmelnick. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for delaying the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Defence. Vladimir BONDAR to the Ministry of Finance for the insufficient financing of the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine related to the transport of passenger credit categories to the open-ended company Lutské ATP 10727. Anatolia NALIVAYKA to the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in connection with the traumatic situation that resulted from unfinished and damaged homes in the city of Yenakiyeva. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Culture and Art regarding the allocation of funds to the Žitomir Regional Literature Museum for the completion of the first launch of the museum complex. Stepan BULBY to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the Elimination of Indebtedness for Compensation Payments to Disaster Liquidators in the Chernobyl AES, who live in the Kobelya district of Poltava. VICTOR OF THE U.S. Minister of Education and Science for the provision of orthotechnics and children’s furniture for the educational complex No. 65 and the preschool institution No. 5 of the city of Žitomir. Valentina Seminyuk to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the clarification of the Altanian Rural Council regarding the name of the street of the Garden Society “Fakel”. Jury CARMAZINA to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Kiev City Head, the Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor General of Kiev for the adoption of measures to halt the restrictions on the activities of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine, the actual transfer of an inanimate building on Sagajdajdajna Street, 6-A in Kiev, the preservation of houses and the monument to architecture from destruction. John TOMIĆA to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the prohibition of lending legal persons to open-ended banking institutions of the “Delivery of Ukraine”. Ms. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for a violation of the terms of reference for the filing of the complaint by the prosecutor and the complaint of the “Our Bank” shareholders against the decision of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the deliberate re-registration of a limited-liability association, ArgoPIRSAP, with the participation of individual officials of the open shareholders association Dnipronaftofoproduct and government officials of the local self-government authorities. The flu of the National MPs to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the situation and place of burial of the dust of the commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, Taras Chuprinka. [[♪ Red, black, warm ♪]] [[Romana Suhevic]] Vladimir PETRENKA to the head of the Suma District State Administration for the violation of the rights of the disabled third group of Lydia Gypsyenko, residents of Sumi. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime under the President of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, in response to an unsatisfying response to a request for corruption by officials of the Volin County Administration, published in an article in the newspaper “2000”. Alexander MOROZOVA to the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market, Head of the State Property Fund for the holding of an additional issue by Orant National Stock Insurance Company. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for refusing the Izum Pensions Authority of Ukraine to provide benefits to employees of the optical mechanical plant. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the cessation of the process of destruction of both the single system of the Ukrainian Institute of Science and Technology and Economic Information as a whole, as well as the Winnick State Centre for Scientific and Economic Information in particular, as well as the development of state policy in this field. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the inactivity of the Department of State Executive Services of the Kirov district of the administration of the justice of the city of Kirovgrad for the execution of court decisions on the collection of debt on a salary from the municipal enterprise "Aeroport Kirovograd". GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of creating peripheral radio stations in Ukraine on surface waves. JOURIA PAULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to solve the problems of life support for the inhabitants of the city of Górnik Donetsk. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of social security of the Chernobyl region. VICTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the allocations from the State Budget to the Labour Fund of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. John STATION to the Prime Minister for gross violations and abuse by officials of the Cabinet of Ministers in the distribution and grant of subsidies from the State budget to the local budgets of the Ternopil region for the implementation of investment projects under capital investment in 2004. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resolution of the transfer from the statutory fund of the Open Association of North-Ukrgeology of the Social Infrastructure Facility to the municipal property of the Fursian Village Council of the Biotzerkow Region of Kyiv Region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in allocations from the State budget of Ukraine for housing and housing for families involved in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES disaster living in the Gitomir region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of office posts by officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the distribution and granting of State budget subsidies to the local budgets of the Ivano-Frankov region for the implementation of investment projects in 2004. [[The weaver, the horse, the bone.]] ROBERT to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Oleg BILORUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of State budget subsidies to the local budgets of the Kyiv region for the implementation of investment projects in 2004. Vladimir BONDAR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and article 58 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 in the preparation and issuance of decrees No509 and No510 of 19 April 2004. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the intentions of the State Customs Service of Ukraine to eliminate the customs post “Mukacheve”. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of strengthening the fight against the illicit circulation of alcoholic beverages and ensuring compliance with the requirements of article 42 of the Constitution on consumer rights, security of goods, jobs and services. [[ADVANCE, PAYMENT, AND OTHERS. Total 11 deputies]] YURIA SIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for criminal acts by the Government, which discriminated against the territorial communities of cities and areas of Ukraine, with the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects in 2004. Petra ALINIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conservation and movement of ammunition stores and the maintenance of military towns in the Western Operational Command of the Lviv Region. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the Legality of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the preparation of certificates for the completion of the training course for drivers of motor vehicles. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of destruction in the city of Bila Church of Kyiv district of the Dandropark “Alexandria” - monuments to the garden and park architecture of the late 18th century. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects in 2004. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Prime Minister on the need to preserve the architecture monument — building number 6 in the area of Malanuk in Lviv. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Tobacco, to resolve the issue of the further operation of kindergarten number 3 in the town of Gaddach Poltavsk. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Attorney General on the violation of a criminal case against the citizens of Connonenko and Okolitenko, on the basis of the gross falsification of the documents of the written congregations submitted to the Ministry of Justice and the local court of the Holy District of Kiev, on the basis of which decisions were made in favour of the above mentioned forgers and the involvement of representatives of the executive authorities, including the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the Open Association of the Poltavsk People's Association of the Poltavsk Region on the legality of economic activity. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General for failure by the authorities of Odessa’s local self - government in the district of the prosecutor’s office. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney-General on the fact that there was a road accident investigation that took place on February 2, 2003, in the city of Dolinský Kirovograd. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General, head of the Security Service for the persecution of the Metropolitan Protoeira by the couple of St. Michael’s Church in Colomia Chiborak for refusing to cooperate with the Ukrainian Security Service. JOURIA PAULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of political involvement and involvement in the electoral process of the departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the abuse of the office of Prime Minister in the distribution and award of subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects on capital investments with a view to gaining the favor of voters on the electoral day of the election of the President of Ukraine. JOURIA ARTEMENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the reason of the delay in the investigation of a criminal case for causing serious bodily harm to the citizen of Karpenka. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, on the abuse and reform of the Zacarpathian region by the leaders of the road transport company of the Soviet Union. Bogdan Kostinjuk and Jury KLEČKOVSKO to the Attorney-General on the non-admission of acts of law by the Prime Minister and the media at large on the start of the electoral campaign. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General’s Office on the legality of the issue of the permanent suspension of the authority of the village head of the Oleuvian region of the Gitomir region of Valentina Sweet. John STATION to the Attorney-General for the abuse of the office of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the distribution and granting of subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects on capital investments with a view to gaining the favor of voters on the electoral day of the presidential election in 2004. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for reasons of exceeding the limits of official authority of the police and for causing bodily harm to the inhabitants of the city of Bustino Tachiv district of Zakarpat district. Georgia BUIKA and Anatolia NALVIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-compliance of Ukrainian law-abiding by certain officials and citizens of Ukraine. Jury KARMAZIN to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the criminal offence of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for providing false information to the National Deputy of Ukraine on 8 April and 7 May of this year on criminal relations of the acting head of the Lviv City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine with criminal authority. Andrija SKILLY to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the terms of the contract by the State Accounting Organization “Housing-Invest” regarding the client - the closed association of the Youth Housing Complex “Academ City”. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for prosecutorial supervision of Ukraine's legislation in reforming the agricultural enterprise Burluk, Bahchisaraya District of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Lilia GRIGOROVIĆ to the Attorney General of Ukraine for unlawfully depriving him of the right to rent an assets complex of the closed shareholders association “Heat Networks Entrepreneurship” in Sumi by means of bankruptcy. Vassil CHROVONIA and Yuri Shirka to the Attorney-General for the purpose of being in the internal affairs of the Senior Inspector of the Civil Service Department of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the province of Humenjuk, who unlawfully used their weapons, took the lives of 14-year-old Denis Matviychuk. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for improper support by the Ministry to a group of National Deputies in obtaining an audience with the Holy Father John Paul II of the Pope. Ms. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the insufficient exercise of control by the Department of State Executive Services over the activities of state executives in the Kirovograd and Mikolai oblasts. Mr. Juriya ARTEMENKA and Ms. Alexia BABURIN to the Minister of Justice regarding the violation of the law by officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the Shevchenkov District Department of Justice of the city of Kiev. Ms Yuli TIMOSHENKO to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance of Military and Chief Officials and Military Staff of Internal Affairs and the failure to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order No. 278, November 28, 2002. ANATOLYA VIAL to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the failure to pay money and for the negative treatment of the miners and the unification of the widow and the children of the destroyed miner Blazko of the city of Anakieva. Valentina Seminyuk to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Director-General of Ukrazliznice, on compensation for the damage caused by the State as deputy editor-in-chief of the newspaper Magistral, not taking action on the results of the audit and conducting a service investigation into the violations detected. Igora TARASJUKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the redeployment of the military unit from Terrebovla, Ternopil district, and the further operation of the infrastructure of the military unit remaining in the city. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in order to pay off the debt to provide medicines to the victims who live in the city of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine regarding the purposeless use of the funds allocated for the construction of the energy cloud of the Hmelnicka AES, as well as the construction of the building without the development of project and budget documentation. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of persons with disabilities and veterans of work on the basis of pensions by the Odessa County Pension Fund. John YVANCHO to the Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Zacarpathian Economic Court concerning the Broadcasting Company Mukacheve. John BOKHO to the Kiev City Head, Head of the Kiev City State Administration, for the improper response of the management of the Shevchenkov District State Administration of Kiev to parliamentary appeals. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the legality of reducing the number of troops and personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye district on violations of the Ukrainian Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” as the head of the government of the Open Association of Shareholders of the Scientific Research Institute “The Transformer” by Andri Ilyin. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney-General, the Prime Minister on the incorrect grounds for concealing Decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Nos. 509 and 510 relating to the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of institutional projects and the implementation of measures to prevent accidents and technological disasters in the housing and utilities and other emergency municipal property objects in 2004 since 19 April 2004 under the heading “No for printing”. As well as violations of articles 24, 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine and 58 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2004, which prevent discrimination based on political, religious and other beliefs and require acceptance of the distribution with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Georgia Manchulenka. Oh, that's three copies. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal persecution of members of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union by the law enforcement agencies of the Volin region. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister, Attorney General, on the dangerous environmental situation in the village of Smělno Brodík district of Lviv. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Minister of Health for the provision of public health care to disabled people in the Great War of Homeland in the treatment of cancer. Vladimir Anishtuka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitr Tobacco about the payment of money from the savings books of the USSR to the citizens of Ukraine, the disabled of the first group. JURY OF THE ORBJECH to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the prosecution of public activity and the beating of a citizen of Savchuk. JURY OF THE ORBJECTION to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the prosecution of public activity and the beating of a citizen of Saucuk. The MPs are all out. Let's move on to speeches commissioned by MPs and groups with statements, information, messages. From the Communist faction, Novak Volodymyr Mikolayovich has the word. Prepare Kozachenko from the "Centre" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u2	Vladimir Novak, faction of Communists in Ukraine, Hmělničina Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished deputies, dear compatriots! On the beautiful spring day of May 1st, Hmelnica kept her sons Mikhailov Constantine and Zlatchevsky Jaroslav, who died on a foreign land, in a foreign war. 23-year-old Constantine went to war to solve his financial problems, left the third course of the Kamyanec-Podil State. The university, because it had nothing else to learn, wanted to earn money for surgery for its younger brother, a disabled child. Jaroslav was three days older than Constantine’s father - in - law and wanted to earn money to build a family home. I left an orphan three - year - old and a young widow. The third pilgrim, Vladimir Berutov, was seriously injured. Thousands of people who came to pay their last respects to their countrymen asked the same questions. What have these young boys died for, and why is Ukraine paying for the lives of its young sons? Why is that war, if there are really no children of ministers, national deputies, senior officials of our nation, who are really protecting the interests of Ukraine? Because they often claim their love for Ukraine from the high rostrums. And none of those present at the funerals of the masters were able to give a direct answer and an honest answer to any question. It's simple. We, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, have claimed, from the very beginning, that today's leadership of Ukraine has deliberately sent Ukrainian sons to their death, not protecting the interests of the state, but its own interests, the premier prospect of participating in the reconstruction of Iraq. It was also sent because it was not possible to provide young people in their own country with jobs and decent wages. I appeal to those who voted in favour of sending our contingent to Iraq. Think about what you voted for. You voted to send Ukrainian children to destroy a foreign state so that those behind your back could benefit from its reconstruction. Today, for your mindless obedience to the regime that forced you to vote in favour, the Ukrainian people are paying for the lives of their sons. Communists have stressed and stressed that the responsibility for the death of our compatriots in Iraq lies with the current leadership of Ukraine and the parties of war -- the presidential majority and our Ukraine -- who voted in favour of sending troops to Iraq. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is already calling for an immediate decision to recall Ukrainian troops from Iraq. It will be up to us to decide whether or not to make this decision. Let us do our duty to Ukraine honestly, yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u3	Alexy Kozachenko from the deputy group "Centre". Prepare Harmash of Soccer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to address you on behalf of the Centr MP's team with the following. In recent times, Ukraine has become seriously and dangerously ill. Constitutional reform, which is clearly needed for all, has become a political barricade, not a unified idea. Failure by the Supreme Council of the Law on Changes to the Constitution is a testimony not to the imperfections of the project itself, but to the flaws of approaches and methods for reform that have led to a negative reaction in and outside Ukraine. The good idea of creating a parliamentary majority is greatly devalued by the attempt to use elected MPs in the majority districts to achieve narrow political interests. The expectations of the electorate they represent in the Supreme Council for the entire time coincided little with the events in the session hall. Ukraine’s higher legislative body was overly politicized. And political discipline was on the rise above national interests. Under these conditions, the role of factions and bloc leaders has been hypertrophysic. And their ability to confront and not to yield to principles was valued, not as a flaw or a flaw, but as a virtue. This has weakened Parliament as an independent branch of power, which has become the basis for trying to manipulate it from the outside, and has eventually led to the division of the Supreme Council, into ours and not ours, into ours and strangers. The fundamental principles of effective work of the Supreme Council are political tolerance, the ability of each MP to stand up for his position, the convergence of parliamentary priorities with public expectations. As a result of the above-mentioned "Centre" group, there is a need for a change in the timetable of existing political forces in Parliament to continue the democratization of society. From our own experience in the Supreme Council, we believe that the formation of parliamentary groups and factions requires a new approach in principle. The best interests of the electorate should be high, and the best conditions for national MPs to fulfil their responsibilities to them should be created for them. In accordance with these principles, we are aware of our responsibilities to the people of Ukraine, and we claim that the created parliamentary group "Centre" will base its activities on the principles of parity direct participation of all members of the group in the legislative process, with unconditional respect for the political views of each national MP. The Center Group claims that it does not grant any overfractional or interfractional representation to speak for itself without agreeing with the group. We do not claim to be a foreigner in the political spectrum of the Supreme Council, we occupy the space that has turned out to be nothing but vast as a result of recent events. Extensive enough that we have enough room with us for all those who support honest parliamentaryism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u5	Galina Harmash from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Vasile right away from the People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u6	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! In November 2003, I spoke from this rostrum about the burning of the house of the First Secretary of the Luhansk People's Paradise District of Kovalova Alexandra Ivanovni for defending the property rights of my associates. Ukrainian Socialists, the FRA faction, supported Alexander Ivanovna, raised money, and bought her a house. But the terrible Ukrainian series of persecution, the intimidation of those who defend human rights, unfortunately continues. A courageous woman spoke with the employees of the Novopskovsky Combokerm Company to defend their rights as coowners of the factory. On April 2, this year, a group of people led by a citizen named Ilyin, who wants to take over the business, and unfortunately, the influential people who are in this room, with the participation of the law enforcement agencies of the Novopskow region, were tried to take over the plant. After these events, representatives of the LRA factions appealed to the Luhansk district’s law enforcement authorities, asking them to handle the matter, but this was not done. Their inaction and indifference have led to terrible consequences: on April 21, as a result of the recapture of the enterprise by the same individuals, as well as the employees of the Novopskovsky Internal Affairs Department, Kovalovya suffered severe brain trauma and concussion, brain trauma closed. The employee of this company, Dudkov, also a member of the Socialist Party, is hospitalized with a fractured skull and is now in resuscitation. There are other victims. Instead of protecting the interests of the employees, law enforcement officers take part. By the way, so far, law enforcement has not found any buyers or executioners in the November house of the Secretary of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the U.S. Attorney General's Office has once again limited itself to formal responses. There's probably no other way. Sumi, Mukachev, Novopskov are chains of one chain. But this chain is a criminal oligarchic power, like a rod, that has wrapped our Ukraine, making it a stepmother for its citizens. So socialists see one way out: change the power system, change the bandits in power. Only such a course can give people hope for a better life. Let's fight together and we'll win! And second, as far as international problems are concerned. Socialists take the principle and consistent position of withdrawing our troops from Iraq. We unanimously voted against the entry of troops into Iraq. We have proposed a decree to ensure the internal and external security of the State in relation to the victims of Ukrainian military personnel in Iraq. We insist, the faction insists on taking such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u7	Vasil Ivanovich Nadraga is invited to speak on behalf of the People's Choice Group. Prepare Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I'd like to remind you a little bit of the story. In August 2005, 70 years will be completed from the start of the stochanov movement. This is a labor competition for Donbass miners who have given their heroic work a push for the industrial development of our State. Accordingly, I would like to remind you of specific dates. The dates are as follows. From 30 to 31 August, the young murderer Alexei Stahanov, who worked on the Central Irmina mine, set a world record for mining coal mines. He made 102 tons of coal and thus fulfilled 14 standards per employee. I have to say that in those years this event has had a great resonance, and, as we all remember, it was first developed in the coal industry and then in all other sectors of the population. And this enabled the country to take forward positions in the world, to achieve economic growth dynamics Based on this logic, the Supreme Council's draft regulation on how we propose that this event: the 70th anniversary of the stohanov movement -- be noted at the state level next year. We recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop measures to ensure that the executive powers take over the celebrations of the 70th anniversary of the Stahanov movement, not only in its homeland in the Stahanov Lugansk region, whose inhabitants are the initiators of the event, but in all cities and regions, activities for the participation of veterans in the work and pre-production activities have been carried out in Ukraine, so as to establish appropriate rehabilitation centres for veterans to be restored and placed in memory places and signs for the repair of Stakhanov's museums, in order to say, a national action has been carried out so that money can be placed in the 2005 budget without it. We ask and recommend that local administrations on the ground, local self-government, carry out the necessary activities to ensure that the public media properly consider these things and, accordingly, reflect this important event in the history of our society. I therefore appeal to all factions and MPs to support this proposal, because the 70th anniversary of the stohanov movement is an event beyond which our society cannot pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u9	Alexander Turchinov has a word from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, our faction supports the requirement of deputies to address the Iraqi problem in the walls of the Supreme Council. Now, please listen to our faction's statement. "On May 7, 2004, the United States court dropped all charges against our leader, Yulia Timoshenko. Although the Attorney General’s Office has tried to impose false cases on the American court for several generations of general prosecutors under the President’s authority, U.S. Justice has made the only correct decision — Julia Timoshenko has not committed any crimes against her. Now. All over the world, it is understood that the company of vicious harassment, persecution, and repression against Julia Timoshenko, her loved ones, relatives, relatives, and colleagues from their very sources is an outright and cynical crime committed under the direct direction of Leonid Kuchma and his immediate surroundings. Julia Timoshenko, leader of the opposition forces, who did not accept political banditry, homage, and filth, did not break or go along with the national mafia. It's her only crime, which, for several years now, the penal system of the state has trampled on our party, our bloc, our supporters. Today, on this rostrum, if there were at least the slightest notion of morality and orderliness in the camp, there would have to be customers of Timoshenko’s harassment campaign to apologize for the repression and abuse of innocent people, many of whom became disabled and disabled in prison. And all the television channels that over the years have been relentlessly watering our leader’s dirt should also inform us about the outcome of the Timoshenko case. Yet I have no illusions or morals in power, nor the level of freedom of speech on Ukrainian television. Therefore, I am obliged to declare that Timoshenko’s affairs no longer exist, and the campaign of repression against Ulysses Volodymyrna failed in a sense. I also want to remind you that a few days ago, one of our so-called colleagues allowed himself to set the provocative conditions for our bloc to form a single coalition of opposition democratic forces -- the rehabilitation of Timoshenko by the U.S. Court. I would very much like to believe that such a condition was a random improvisation of a single MP, not a demonstration attempt to dissipate the opposition movement adopted at the highest party level. I can say that even clearly provocative, blackmailing conditions have been met. Therefore, it remains to be expected that those who have made the above - mentioned improvisations will live up to their commitments, abide by their words, and sign an agreement to form a single opposition coalition, and to make a single presidential candidate out of opposition or to invent something new. Timoshenko’s case was completed, and it ended shamefully and infamously for her organizers. The issue of Timoshenko, which they tried to discredit, destroyed the opposition became another nail to the homeland of the current regime. There is a new era in which, I'm sure, there will be no more room and no more punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u11	Igor Šurma is invited to speak from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine "United". To prepare Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u12	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is deeply concerned by the special position of the printed body of the Supreme Council of the Voice of Ukraine, which is reflected in the biased attitude towards some MP factions and groups, and the frank advocacy of the interests of other factions. [[united]] Sadly, we have every reason to conclude that this is the case. Just like the conclusion of the newspaper’s manipulation of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, depending on the situation. The dual standards of editorial policy "The Voice of Ukraine" are, for example, a problem with the publication of the results of Ukraine's vote on important social issues at the request of MPs. Yes, the parliamentary faction of the Social Democrats has not once addressed the publication of the newspaper Golos Ukrainiana, both from the parliamentary rostrum and in writing, on the publication of the results of the roll-call vote in the third reading and in the entire draft law of Ukraine on mandatory public health insurance as a means to play a significant role in the reform of the health system, the health financing system, and then in ensuring the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to health care, health care and health insurance. [[United]] The official response to our appeals was a letter signed by Chief Editor Gorlov stating that the Rules do not require the publication of the results of the vote and that the publication of the results of the vote is only possible on the basis of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It has been noted in particular that the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine does not require the editor to print the results of the roll-call vote and the texts of the bills on the basis of the appeal of the National Deputy or the MP’s faction. Instead, with regard to the "Our Ukraine" faction, the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies do not work. To make sure of that, you should look at the newspaper’s publications. For example, the March 16, this year issue contains the results of a roll-call vote on the Supreme Council's draft regulation on ensuring the unhindered media activities during the 2004 election period or the April 6, issue of the newspaper on inclusion in the election lists of political parties and women's blocs. In providing this information, the newspaper has not forgotten to inform readers that the results of the vote are being published on the demand of the faction "Our Ukraine," which is in principle true because the Supreme Council has not taken such a decision. There is a publication and a series of judgements that can no doubt be considered evaluable. We demand that the necessary measures be taken to prevent the practice of double newspaper standards from being entrenched, which must be an expression of the interests of the entire Supreme Council. Once again, we turn to the public to publish the results of the voting under the law under consideration on the mandatory public social insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u13	Basil Kalinchuk has a word from the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, to prepare Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 defines two main budget managers, which are foreseen for measures related to the minimization of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, namely the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which has been handed over nine budget programmes. In the Odessa region at the beginning of this year, there were 11.8 thousand people who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, of whom more than 2.3 thousand were children. In line with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’s decree, No. 2075, the Chief Administration of Labour and Social Protection of the Population in the District State Administration, a debt of 3.4 million dollars has been accepted for the population protection programmes related to Chernobyl in the past year. Today the situation in the region is that way. A compensation scheme for the welfare of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster amounts to 11.4 million dollars. Only 9.5 million budgeted. The other one. The health, health, and relief program provides 87,000 dollars, and the debt over the past years amounts to more than 213,000 dollars. Third. The Chernobyl disaster housing programme provides 88,000 dollars. And that's the cost of an apartment. At the same time, there are 436 families on the line, 260 of whom are eligible for extra housing during the year. Low levels of funding for Chernobyl programs lead to increased social tensions and large numbers of citizens’ appeals and complaints to various authorities and courts. It should be noted that legislation on the social protection of populations affected by the Chernobyl disaster also requires changes in relation to the transfer of individual functions from MNP to Minprac. In order to ensure the implementation of programmes related to the minimization of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, we consider it necessary, firstly, to establish a single body within the Minsk central apparatus to address the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the transfer of social programmes that remain within the competence of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Secondly, in order to ensure the implementation of programmes related to the minimization of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Government needs to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2004 State Budget, which foresees an increase in the funding of social protection programmes for the population affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u15	Vladimir Yavorowski has a word from the faction "Our Ukraine". Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u16	Your Honor, the men who elected this House! I want to remind you all that Ukraine has been experiencing a lot of anxiety lately, if you want, for tragic months of its history. In agony, the authorities can do stupid things that normal people can't do. I want to remind you again of this creepy row, from Sknilov to the newspaper "Silski News", to Mukachevo, to Melitopol. In this row, especially I stress, there is the National Union of Ukrainian Writers in this row, and the 37th, which stood in the 47th year, can no longer actually stand today. The mojo shadow of Medvedchuk lies above Ukraine today. I just want to remind you, my dears! I have a magazine in my hands, a Norwegian literary magazine, where on the front page, a portrait of delegates of the famous convention on the street, which says, "Let's invite to the dictatorship." I want to tell you that today we held a convention under the open sky: a clean, clean, legitimate convention with delegates' signatures, a thousand writers arrived, all those who could stand on their feet, even come to the crutches to say "No! There is a band of writers!" And it will not be possible for Medvedchuk to destroy her because of the few prodigious free scribes whom they have disfellowshipped, by the way, from the Spirit of the scribes. Today, it's like an enclave: ten days off phones, covered completely without any explanation, covered all the bills, we don't get mail. Can you imagine what you did to the classics? These are the people you and I taught at school! I am taking the initiative of our council today, and we are holding another assembly. Can you imagine? In a few months — two conventions! With all the classics of Ukrainian literature coming together, but you're not going to see it anywhere on the screen, those faces, not Paul Greebly, not Dimarov, not Musketika, not many classics, which, by the way, sit here, including Boris Illich Oljinik, whom I deeply respect. There has not been such a thing as breaking the spiritual flower of our people before our eyes! On behalf of "Our Ukraine," I say, "Mr. Medvedchuk, I've been through all your instructions across the channel, where they've been issuing these impeccable instructions for you to be judged for." I remind you, the Writer's Association won't break anyone, we stand. If necessary, I'm on behalf of the front-runners who have asked the President to accept them, he won't accept them, on behalf of the winners of the Shevchenkov Prize -- he won't accept them. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, even though you have such a letter in their hand. But they said, "We'll lie on the asphalt at the Writer's Association and repeat what our children did when we starved for Ukraine's independence." We will lead the protest movement today, we have no other way out. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we invite Mikola Noshchenko from the MP's "Trudova Ukraine" faction. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u18	Mikola Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine, 160 constituency, Deaf. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, voters! The MP's Trudova Ukraine political party on June 5th of last year supported the President of Ukraine's decision to send a Ukrainian military contingent to a multinational force to create stability and security conditions in the Republic of Iraq. We were convinced that this decision, aimed at ensuring peace in Iraq, was absolutely right, and it promoted Ukraine's international authority. At the same time, the latest developments in Iraq indicate the complexity of the situation and even justify the following: the major members of the coalition - the United States and the United Kingdom, removing the dictatorship regime, delayed the process of ensuring peace in that country. The rise of resistance to guerrilla warfare, attacks on military personnel, and terrorist attacks, both in Iraq and in the territories of other nations, are a cause for concern in the world. On hearing today, every person has an unprecedented case of inhumane treatment of prisoners of war. In addition, there has been an increase in the loss of troops that have led to Iraq’s maintenance of peace. The death of six Ukrainian military personnel caused protests in Ukrainian society and speculation against certain political forces. Ukraine’s economic interests so far are not taken into account. In spite of promises and expectations, domestic enterprises do not participate in Iraq’s postwar reconstruction. An analysis of the situation in the Republic allows us to conclude that the hope of stability is delayed indefinitely. In connection with the above-mentioned circumstances, the Labour Ukraine faction called at its meeting yesterday, decided to contact the President of Ukraine with a request to consider urgently the definition of the terms of the continued presence of the Ukrainian military contingent in the Republic of Iraq. The faction also asks, will strongly insist on preventing the change in the status of the Ukrainian military contingent and its involvement in the conduct of military activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinsky is invited to speak from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to join the balance of position of my fellow MP, Noshchenka, and simply inform you that my draft decision is now being circulated, along with Deputy Oluik, on the need to hold a closed session on the risks that exist in Ukraine in the context of the presence of our troops in Iraq. But I have a statement from the faction about the problems of bookkeeping taxation. Indeed, the faction of the People's Democratic Party is concerned about the situation that has arisen in the publishing sector in connection with the uncertainty of today's tax collection of the national book. In recent decades, the problem of providing our citizens with one of the main forms of Ukrainian culture is the book. Today, foreign editions are systematically filled in with the niche of Ukrainian books. Every year, Ukraine is essentially investing in foreign publications for up to 50 million dollars. During 2000-2001, the situation changed slightly under the conditions of short - term income tax payments per year. The number of assignments of the country book then increased by 70 percent. But to date, the economic mechanism for book support does not work because of the suspension of its 2004 State Budget Act, and we know all this. The only things that seem rather confusing are the clarifications of the various organs of the central executive branch. Well, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, after considering the association's reference to the tax system in 2004 to the Ukrainian publishing industry, reported, quote, that "in 2004 there are benefits from the value added tax established in paragraphs 11.37 and 11.38 of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Taxes". [[It's about the Association of Publishers and Publishers.]] In turn, the National Tax Administration of Ukraine reported that the provisions of article 80 of the State Budget Act for 2004 had been suspended for that year and, contrary to the claim of the Ministry of Justice, the DPA was in fact claiming that the VAT benefit was not working. They say they're high to Minist, and the taxpayers are here and they're in the guest house almost every day. Dear colleagues, if events continue this way, by 2008, we will have very few, frankly, taxpayers under this article. To prevent such a situation from happening as early as December 2003, the NDP faction submitted a draft law amending the State Budget Act 2004 itself on the deletion of individual articles, which received a positive assessment of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. But given the importance of the issue, the faction of the People's Democratic Party also supports the legislative initiatives of other political forces in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u21	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up to speak from MPs and factions, spoke. Just a minute. Yes. One minute, calm down, please. From what? Honorary colleagues, two national deputies, applied for an appearance in connection with a dissatisfaction with the answer. Let us thus make sure that we comply with the Rules and the Rules require that we make this statement first, justify to the chairman what they agree on and then make a statement. If that's what it takes. I agree that you're not being treated and I don't want to think that you're using the opportunity to go around the rules and procedures. So let's do the speeches today, and then we'll follow the rules. That's why Kenzier Jaroslav has the word. Prepare for Valentina Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u22	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! On March 18, this year, I asked the Attorney General of Vasiliev, Minister of Interior of Bilokon and Minister of Education of Vasil Kremen. The MP's request was devoted to the problem of unobjective investigation by the U.S. branch office in the Lviv area of the hooligan act of Oreste Baiek, the village head of the Rodatichi District, he is also the district secretary of the SDPU (o) in the Lviv region, and to the unjustified punishment of members of the City Police Paradise. When I got the answer to the whole question, I just solved it with my hands. I quote some passages of this question. The Deputy Attorney General Pshonk answers. The facts I was making in my question were not supported. By the way, I was asked to investigate the political provocations of teenage children at the Pediatric High School by social-democrats. [[United]] So Pshonka tells me that the fact that the rural head of the village of Rodachi Bayek, the secretary of the SDPU(o) district of the underage students of the general education school in order to block the meeting of the national MPs with the electorate, has not been confirmed. The city’s 700 inhabitants were Witnesses. And the Attorney General's Office, unfortunately, did not find this confirmation. Interesting is the reply of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which says that in the course of public order measures, police officers acted in accordance with valid legislation. For some reason, this provoker was not punished, but was punished by police officers. After hearing yesterday's report from the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the Mukatov events and what I just talked about is, they say, another confirmation that the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs are essentially standing at the service of the SDPU (o). And we, the national MPs, can no doubt allow this to continue so that all the power structures will essentially serve this one political party, which we call not SDPU (o) after the events in Mukachev, but SDPU (b) - Razorheads.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u23	Please, Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u24	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Under the Ukrainian Act on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Citizens' Savings, the State has taken on a commitment and guarantees the return of money, savings to citizens lost as a result of their devaluement, which has been placed in the Savings and Maintenance Institute. Today, there are several companies that are the successors to Ukdröjstrech, including the largest of which is the National Stock Insurance Company, Oranta. Yet, contrary to the interests of the State, an attempt has already been made to illegally adopt the Orant. On 4 November 1998, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Decree No. 225, which decided to secure a control package of 50 percent of the statutory fund plus one share of Oranta's national shareholder insurance company in state ownership, which was done by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2001. However, during the period of validity of the Act on the Return of Citizens' Savings and the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 225 of 4 November 1998, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine issued an Order of 49-R of 4 February 2004 on the implementation of measures to ensure the development of the National Shareholder Insurance Company, Oranta, which allowed Oranti to conduct an additional issue. According to her report, a 25 - percent stake in government property was left behind. So the government has decided to withdraw from government control a company with 10 million insurance contracts worth 4.4 billion dollars to set up a state obligation. By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is forbidden to carry out an additional issue of shares of enterprises whose statutory funds contain a state share of property. In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, I request the Prime Minister to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine why he failed to comply with the decision of the Special Supervisory Commission on the non-emission of shares in the National Shareholder Company of Oranta. Who will be responsible for the implementation of the Civil Savings Act, since there are still 10 million contracts. And it's impossible to rob 10 million citizens who believe and invest money in the Orant today. Why is it that the President's decree is not being followed, which states that there is a system of action to address the causes and conditions that contribute to crime and corruption, where it is clearly stated that it is possible not to allow the State's share of shares in statutory funds to be cleared up by the state's share of 50 per cent. I think the President needs to ask why the right decisions are made today, and the cost of the citizens goes into the hands of the right commercial structures. Who will be responsible for the return of the savings of the citizens and the insurers who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, thank you. The statement has been completed. Now, one minute. One minute, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, I just forgot one announcement was lost among the papers here. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivanova Sergija Anatoliyovich, into the House of Deputies. Out of procedure, please, Assadchev and then the Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u26	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is the first request you have read to the President about the problems of the judicial system. You know what I've been to you, I've informed you about this. And I want to inform the people's deputies. The point is that the Presidential Administration has been in office for almost a half a year to appoint the Chief Executive Court. Already nine judges have been appointed. There's actually a whole chain of the judicial system behind the head. The mass of cases, about a thousand, has accumulated in the Supreme Court. They just can't physically take them apart. So he asked Mallarenko, and it's not even a request from Assadchev or a group of deputies, it's a public matter. And I would very much like to vote now, if I may, but I can see that there aren't so many people. Let's maybe vote on Tuesday morning. It seems to me that before that question, the leadership of the Supreme Council could join us because we passed the law on the judiciary. This law is being enforced by all these measures. I very much ask, my friends, let us somehow respect the Supreme Council, vote on this request. For more than six months, no one has been appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I really did have a conversation with Valerie Assadchev about this. But we don't have any questions on Tuesday. If the hall doesn't deny it, I can do it again, and there's support, I can now put this question to the vote. Do you mind? But we have to vote twice, because that's what the President is asking. That's why I'm asking the President of Ukraine to support the request to the President of Ukraine for a group of national deputies to normalize the judicial system of Ukraine. [[11:21:06]] For 242 Request supported. I am voting for this request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:21:28]] For 265 Request supported. Gmira, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u28	Vladimir Mihajlović, among the hundreds of documents adopted by the Supreme Council that you spoke of, unfortunately, are shameful documents on Ukraine's participation in aggression in Iraq. The Communist faction categorically requires immediate inclusion in the agenda and adoption of a document on the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. Our children are being forced to kill in Iraq, our children are being killed in Iraq by the will of the United States of America. Americans torture people in Abugrib? and apologize. The Americans are killing our journalists, and they're also apologizing, but there's no hurry to punish those responsible. Ukraine helps them to do so. 150 years ago, Mark Twain spoke painfully of his country as the United States of lynching. Today it is the United States of Torture and Killing! And our power is trying to help them. We're gonna call off our boys from Iraq! Let's get Ukraine out of the dirt that she was pushed into.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask, let's think about it this way: there are a lot of these draft regulations, we need to hold separate meetings of the Conciliation Council, and we need to agree on the measure on which we're going to deal with this issue. I can put it to a vote, you can see it's not going to get support in the session room. There is an offer by Oleg Zarubinski to hold a closed meeting on this subject. Maybe that makes sense. Listen to everyone and then decide and make the right decision. It's not about getting involved, it's about getting back. Dear colleagues, it's not about getting involved. I want to remind you of the Rules, dear colleagues. When the issue under the Rules has not been considered once, the required number of votes has not been reached, the decision of the Conciliation Board can be followed back to the consideration or consideration of the next session. Let's be precise here. So I'd like to now agree with that thought, my dear colleagues: on Monday at the Conciliation Council, we're going to consider this issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'm betting on the vote to calm everyone down, because they won't. One minute, one minute. Matthew's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is about specific legislative projects that have already been considered, including yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Defence and National Security. For example, 4316-3, requesting the President to withdraw the United States peacekeeping contingent to the Republic of Iraq. It's a Communist faction draft decree, it's a new bill at all. So we ask that we put the question of including it in the agenda of the day session in order to consider it comprehensively when the Conciliation Council is determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, let us therefore, as the chairman of the Regulatory Committee says, we will carry out this decision, although we must probably all abide by the Rules in all matters. I know what I'm talking about, Valentin Grigorovich. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting because we've been looking at more than one project there, and there's lots of projects. It's a question, not one project. That's why I'm voting. We're going to have to vote twice, who's to go back to that question, then -- who's to put it in the agenda, and then we're going to define it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, dear fellows, I say again: Calm down, dear fellows! I say again, calm down, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, calm down! There's a lot of draft documents. I'm betting on the vote, who's in charge of getting back to this issue? Please make up your mind. [[11:25:50]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, on Monday at the Conciliation Council, I think we'll take time to figure out the problem and figure out the meaning, the measure, and when to look at it. Information is being announced. The factions, please. Information on the conduct of the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Strasbourg, 26 April-1 May 2004. The head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Paris, Boris Ilchi Olijnik, is invited to speak. How long do you need, Boris Illich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u32	Thank you. Since the day of the April Paris session, which took place from 26 to 30 April, I would like to highlight issues such as euthanasia, the people who disappeared in Belarus and the persecution of the press in that country, the strengthening of the role of the UN, the debate on the urgent procedure for the situation in Armenia, Kosovo and Cyprus, the situation in European prisons and the centres of previous detention. The complete report shall be submitted in accordance with the order set out in the report. Members of the permanent delegation of the Supreme Council from the individuals involved in the discussion of the above and other issues: Oksana Bilozer, Gladys, Glacier, Kostenko, Oliynik, Rahanski, Šibko The Rahanski initiative, supported by more than 20 states, has called on the countries of the "great seven" and the Development Bank to fulfil their commitments to help eliminate the consequences of the global tragedy. On the opening day of the session, April 26, the Assembly honored the memory of the victims of Chernobyl for a moment of silence. The delegation usually carried out culinary work in harmony with the actions of representatives of other nations. On April 27, our delegation held a press conference on the 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy. Oliynik and Anatoly Rahanski informed journalists accredited to the Council of Europe about the current situation in CHAES and in the alien zone, as well as the problems facing the population in coping with the consequences of the accident. On the same day, the Committee on Migration, Refugees and Demography, Oxana Biozor, was appointed a rapporteur on the problems of the "Train Migration of Central and Eastern Europe" and the secretariat of the Assembly registered a proposal, initiated by Vitaly Hiccup, on the adoption of the recommendations "The Consequences of EU Enlargement and the Opportunities of Central and Eastern European Countries, members of the Council of Europe to join the Bologna Process. Rahanski had a speech with the European Council Commissioner for Human Rights, Robles, regarding the latter's participation in an international conference devoted to the 60th anniversary of the Yaltic Treaties. On April 28, a permanent delegation met with fellow reporters of the monitoring committee, Renata Wolvend, and Hanna Severinsen, at their request. They informed about their intention to visit Ukraine with a familiar visit from May 26 to June 3, plans are made for co - reporters to work in Uzhgrad, Mukachev, Kiev, Odessa. May 31st and June 1st in Crimea, June 2rd, again in Kiev. [[Simferopol, Yalta]] During the evening meeting of the Assembly, a report on the situation in Armenia was discussed in an urgent debate. The resolution adopted is profound. You don't hear, do you? Yes, the resolution adopted expresses deep concern for the Parliamentary Assembly by the authorities of that State about the situation. on the opposition, in particular the arrests of participants in mass protests and the violation of media freedom. On April 29, Ilham Aliyev, President of Azerbaijan, spoke at the Parliamentary Assembly. On that same day, our delegation met with Hensek of the Council of Europe Schwimmer at his request, presenting itself for re-election by ginseng, the candidate promised that if elected in his work he would come out of the principle of experience, efficiency and enthusiasm. But let's go back to the next day. Opening the session, President PARE Peter Schider strongly condemned the recent assassination of Hamas leaders in Palestine, calling these assassinations a violation of the rule of law. And the confirmation by the Turkish court of sentence to the four former deputies, he believes, undermines Turkey’s European efforts. On the first day, the head of the political committee, Kish, accused the delegation of Serbia and Montenegro on the basis of saying, "involvement of two political parties whose leaders are in international search." Some of Milosevic and Sheschel, who are present at The Hague, were on the lookout. It is clear that the day after the clarification of the regulatory committee, PARE ratified the mandate. The irregularity of this proposal is that the initiator has already made a national choice. No one is compelled to love or hate the characters in The Hague, but they have been voted by voters, who are not yet under the tribunal, and no one is allowed anywhere to conquer the will of the people. As a matter of fact, I'm not deliberately putting the term "international" in the Hague tribunal. From this point of view, I will refer to the viewpoint of the prominent lawyer of today, the former minister of justice. Clark, who firmly stated, "This tribunal has fertilized American rulers and only them." So what's the definition of "international"? Martha’s report, which suggested that she should consider the appropriateness of the legislative application of voluntary death, was a very keen discussion. The vast majority of the debaters firmly objected to the argument. The Assembly approved the return of the report to the Committee for Social Affairs and Health. No less severe was the consideration of reports of the disappearance of persons in Belarus and the persecution of the press in the Republic of Belarus. The vast majority of speakers claimed that it was impossible for the Council of Europe to have formal contact with the authorities of Belarus, since they said fundamental rights and human freedom were being violated in the country. In summary, the Assembly's discussion called on the international community of democratic countries to take appropriate action, and I quote, "directed for the benefit of the people of Belarus". The last thesis is a personal warning, especially in the light of events in the Middle East, where Americans under the slogan "For the Good of the People of Iraq" know what they're doing. For the first time, in my memory, the report on the welfare of Lloyd, Britain, about Kosovo, and in the debates, condemned the actions of Albanian extremists against the Serb population. In my speech, I supported the view of the delegation of Serbia and Montenegro that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, as stated in UN Resolution 1244, that killing Serbs, Montenegrins and non-Albanian communities to destroy Orthodox shrines is a planned action of ethnic cleansing. March is not a random explosion, but an organic chain in the sequential practice of Slavonophobia. The Assembly’s report concluded that it had adopted a resolution that specifically condemned the perpetrators of the robbery. I'd like to put a dot on that for my respectable colleagues. Sadly, though, the Bureau of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe approved the report on the monitoring of the reelections in Mukachev, which indicates that large-scale violations were recorded in the final vote. In this connection, Congress called on Ukrainian authorities, quote, to invalidate the official outcome of the elections, investigate alleged violations, name the guilty, and re-elections. The convention suggested that this report be submitted for discussion at the June session of the Parliamentary Assembly. So we only dream of peace. In this regard, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to dynamic the consideration and adoption of documents that are part of our commitments and responsibilities in joining the Council of Europe. For if a torture stake is added to the unfulfilled, it is already a criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u33	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u34	and the unforeseeable consequences. When I thank you for your attention, I ask those who are afraid to vote in favour of the removal of our soldiers from Iraq to know that the Council of Europe has decided that only by permission and by decision of the Security Council have the right to be soldiers there. Now they're there illegally on the side of the invaders. So if the leaders of the United States have been digging a hole for themselves for the past two decades, there is no need for the Ukrainians to jump into a pit that the Americans have dug for themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u35	Thank you for your information to Boris Ilchi Olijnik and for the work of our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission is being announced. [[on the composition and composition of the commission]] We're looking at this with a reduced procedure. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Galina Fedorovna Markusz Please, Galina Fedorovna. Get ready for Santa Claus. Dear colleagues, since we've spent an hour of forty hours on different actuals, let's not take breaks, we'll work on 13 to consider at least a few bills. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the presidential campaign will begin in July of this year. The central electoral commission is the key body on which their organization relies, as well as the counting of votes. It should be noted that during the presidential elections of 1999, the parliamentary elections of 1998, 2002, there were tremendous complaints about the work of the Central Election Commission, especially the opposition. For reasons of dependence on the commission, objectivity, and formalism in its work. As early as October, I emphasize, in 2003, I submitted my draft amendments and additions to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. Sadly, his consideration was prolonged. Whether it was done or not, I will not comment. During this time, a new composition of the Central Election Commission was formed. The proposals made by individual factions of the Supreme Council regarding the appointment of members of the CLTC from political parties that overcame the four - percent barrier in the last elections were partially taken into account. That is, in practice, the need and the legitimacy of the changes I have made regarding the formation of the Central Electoral Commission is confirmed. With regard to the election of the head of the CFC by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I understand that this is a constitutional norm. Therefore, I do not deny the removal of this position. And so I support the proposal for a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take this rule into account when amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Other changes and additions I have made, please support. I think their acceptance will help ensure the independence of the CLTC, the democratisation of its work, and the main thing is to ensure fair and transparent elections. Please support Project 4289. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u37	Thank you, Galina Fedorovna, sit down, please. Bill number 5235 will be reported by the National MP, Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You did the right thing calling only the bill number because it's called the Central Election Commission Act. This is about a new edition of this law, the law in force. Dear colleagues, today's requirements for organizing and holding elections and generally increasing the role and importance of elections, and I think we're all convinced of this at the time of the adoption of the new laws, and they make and enhance the interest of the electoral authorities, the central ones of which are the natural election committees of all levels. But the importance and role of the Central Electoral Commission because of them is naturally the most important, given that this commission is directly concerned with the election of the national deputies and the election of the President of the State. Today, the valid Central Election Commission Act was passed on December 17th, as Mrs. Harmash has just said in 97. For almost six years, it has been applied and has served the Ukrainian community well, at least two national deputies have been elected, and one presidential election has been conducted according to this law. But nothing is eternal, as they say, under heaven, and recently passed new laws on elections to local self-government bodies, to national MPs, to the President. The experience of applying the law provides for the need to update regulation, i.e. legal provisions relating to the status, competence, order of creation and activities of the Central Electoral Commission. What novels in particular are mentioned in Bill 5235, which I report? First, as I said, the law is proposed in a new edition in connection with the number of changes proposed. By the way, I'm going to point out that these changes to some extent cover the suggestions Mrs. Garmash made, although there are differences, I'm going to stop at them a little bit later. The first money, I'd put it in a separate block, it's so legal-technical, but important: it's proposed to specify the name of the commission. You know that today's name is the Central Election Commission, and it's proposed that this be the Central Election Commission of Ukraine, because the jurisdiction of this body extends to the legal relationship that arises during the elections, particularly the National Deputies and the President throughout Ukraine. The second clarification is about the need to form an organ, a printed body of the Central Electoral Commission, because, by the way, all the other central executive bodies even, and I'm not talking about the state-wide bodies that the Central Election Commission is to have their own organs. Now to more important questions. First, it is proposed to extend the competence of the Central Electoral Commission, such as the holding of local referendums. It should be noted that this is a failure in the competent powers of the CLTC, since the provision of methodological and advisory assistance in the conduct of local referendums is absolutely desirable and appropriate. What's more, I'll tell you that the role of the local referendums in view of the European practice of activity and the resolution of issues that concern, in particular, communities, will increasingly become a political and legal reality. You already know what is being initiated, and by the way, the question has been put to Parliament about the need to create a national voter register. And it is envisaged, in particular in this draft law, that the Central Election Commission will take care of it, first of all, it will be the keeper of this register and, accordingly, it will serve it. The fact that it is necessary to do this in order to reduce the risk of forging elections is obvious. The next question, very important, I ask you to pay attention to this, is to change the procedure for the formation of the Central Election Commission. You know, today we're choosing members of the CBC for a six-year term. Instead, it is suggested that the term of validity of the body should be fixed, not just for members of the CLTC, by replacing it with a seven - year term. By the way, as you and I are choosing, the country’s legislative body, particularly for a four - year term, or perhaps in the future a five - year term, and the term of office of the Central Electoral Commission should be established by law and be discreet. The bill sets out the procedure for the termination of the powers of members of the Central Electoral Commission, including the grounds for the termination of the mandate, such as the violation of an oath established by the court and the achievement of a member of the Central Electoral Commission of the age of age, particularly the retirement age for which he has been elected. I don't think this position should actually give me any warning. There's another set of positions that are really money. In particular, it is proposed to introduce two deputies, a detailed procedure for examining applications and complaints by citizens, and so forth. Dear colleagues, I have completed the report. Please support this bill because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u40	synchronize the package of electoral laws, which is also central to the Central Election Commission Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Please have a seat, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. We're dealing with the issue of a reduced procedure. Questions to the rapporteurs are not followed by a reduced procedure. From the Main Committee, and this is the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council for the drafting of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Commission Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak has the floor. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u42	Honorary colleagues, the interim special commission of the Supreme Council to work on projects, to work on draft laws of Ukraine to amend the Constitution, both discussed these bills: and Galina Fedorovna Harmash, and three of our colleagues. [[More Zadrożnowy, Klukkowski and Onichuk]] These are two different bills. And what Galina Fedorovna said, we agreed that following the approval of Bill 5235, introduced by the Roadway, Oneichuk, and Klukkowski, which is actually a new version of the Law, we would take into account the vitality of the Bill of Galina Fedorovna. As for the election of the chairman of the commission, she agreed. This is absolutely in line with the Constitution, when working on some of the drafts of the Constitution, we agreed that we would take that moment into account and we would propose to give the Supreme Council the right to choose the head of the Central Electoral Commission. We'll offer it to the hall. As far as Bill 5235 is concerned. The bill proposes to strengthen the role of the Central Election Commission in electoral and referendum processes. The significant innovations proposed for the requirements for members of the Central Electoral Commission, for the order of election of the leadership of the CLTC, for the order of referrals to the CLTC, for the procedure of consideration of these appeals, for the terms of consideration of these appeals, for the possibility of consideration, among other things, for specific issues with the initiative of the CLTC itself. [[It's a novelty that's very interesting.]] This is suggested to increase the role of KPC in such a way that it can initiate the consideration of electoral or referendum issues on its own. The authority of the CTC is detailed. It should be emphasized that there are normal situations that require either clarification or that they are doubtful from the perspective of the possibility of taking them into account. For example, it is suggested that we create a whole system of CEVCs in places where we know there are appropriate election committees for local councils, local self-government bodies, the president's heads and elections and the vice-presidents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are other situations that require further careful work. We believe that this bill needs to be adopted in the first reading, adopted as a basis for transferring it to the working group of the Temporary Special Commission, which has already been created to bring it to an appropriate position so that we can ensure a normal process that will take place in four months' time and will allow the Central Election Commission to prepare for the updated status of the future elections and possibly referendums. So I suggest you take the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u43	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Even though we're considering two bills, they're complementing each other because the bill that Galina Fedorovna Harmash reported only refers to changes in one article of the law, 6th. [['Cause they're asking you from the hall, which bill?]] And the second bill refers to a new draft of the Central Election Commission Act. And here's the commission's proposal that the project reported by Harmash be taken into account in the drafting of the large new Central Election Commission Act. I mean, I get it. I think it's a situation, right? Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Puzakov. Prepare the Hare. Who? Pomarenko. Please, Puzakov, Ponomarenko, Bunny of John.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u44	Pomorenko, a faction of Communists. Adam Ivanovich, it seems to me that you said yourself right now, the whole bill is being considered, it is being considered a very important body that will in some part form those who will be present. And to consider such a law under a reduced procedure, I think it's probably a mistake. Regarding the Bill of Galina Fedorovna Harmash, I think that when we formed 12 members of the Central Electoral Commission, we have already used this rule, so we can agree with it. And with regard to the election of the head of the Supreme Council, I agree with Victor Musiak that we need to predict this about making changes to the Constitution. I spoke to the drafters of Bill 3235. They are experienced by all lawyers: Klukkowski and Zadrodzny, and Oniszczuk. The inadequacies are, in other words, laid down in this bill. I spoke to the members of the Central Electoral Commission yesterday who agreed to this project. I ask, it says, "The Central Election Commission forms territorial election committees of the local authorities." I ask, who can form twelve thousand territorial commissions? Overruled. The other one. It is not possible, if it is written in the Constitution that the elections to the local councils are appointed by the Supreme Council, to be imputable to the Central Election Commission. I agree, and we'll probably look at the Court of Auditors as an example of how representations will function in the areas of the Court of Auditors. But writing this rule into the CBC Act, when there are only 15 members of the CBC, and the function of the CBC to give to some representatives, that is, the apparatus, that's not right. I don't think so, and this is a violation of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea when this draft law states that it forms the CFC of the election commission of the Crimean Autonomous Republic. It is also stated in the Crimea Constitution that this is the prerogative of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Constitution of Ukraine. And the last. We already know what led to the creation of the Specialist Foundation. And this is where we're going to set up a special fund to which the money candidates are going to make money, so we can do it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u45	Thank you, Gregory Grigorovitch. He said everything he wanted. Have a seat, please. The word is derived from the Hare Ivan Aleksandrovich. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u46	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the Harmash bill be approved in the first reading. As far as Bill 5235 is concerned, I propose that it be rejected. There are so many novelties in this bill. But almost all the principles of change are unacceptable. The drafters propose a substantial change in the legal status of the CLTC, the nature of their activities, particularly in the first article, that the CLTC be designated as a constitutional independent body with exclusive competence for the organization, preparation and conduct of all elections and referendums. Under the current law, the CEC is a state body which, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, this and other laws of Ukraine, provides for the preparation and conduct of the elections of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, as well as all-Ukrainian referendums. As we can see, the difference is remarkable. This is another blow to local self-government. In fact, the legislator proposed the virtuality of the state power position, the legal status of the CLTC. And if it's virtual, it means someone. Who, then? An analysis of the bill shows that the authors propose to strengthen the administrative component of the CLTC’s activities to the detriment of all the activities of CLTC as an organ when formed by the Supreme Council. In particular, it is proposed to create regional representations as structural units of the Secretariat, to create a single system of governing referendum processes. However, the structural units of the CLTC Secretariat cannot replace themselves with the CLTC and the territorial commissions, I stress, the territorial commissions. In addition, the bill provides for a substantial reduction of the requirements for members of the commission while at the same time extending the powers of the commission’s head. In particular, Article 7 does not require members of a commission, such as the prohibition of being part of executive bodies, other governmental bodies, local governments, and other close relatives of the candidate. Yet the practice of family elections, particularly the current election events in Odessa, where the candidate in the Ukrainian national deputies is the daughter of the head of the KVC, Mr. Kiwalov, testifies to the need to preserve these requirements. I would like to remind you that according to the current CEVC Law, article seven, Mr. Kiwalov would have to stop his commission. It is also suggested that the transparency of the activities of the CWC be diminished by removing from article 11 the provision that each political party, the electoral bloc of the party, the list of candidates for deputies who are registered for election, may delegate one representative to the committee for participation in its meetings with the right to vote. That's why I'm proposing to reject this bill. Let's get them to work on it and give it a new one. Otherwise, we'll have an organ that will reject all will and ensure, not open elections, but a wave election, after the will of the population is destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u47	Thank you. Solomon’s word. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u48	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are in the bourgeois Supreme Council of Ukraine looking at the next issue of bourgeois bills to improve bourgeois legislation. It is true that we do not have the right to derogate from. So what I want to say is that among those bills that are being considered, there's one that could be taken as a basis in the first reading, more specifically for re-reading the first reading to send with the other proposals that are, but that doesn't solve the main issue -- the issue of victory for workers in the bourgeois elections. By the way, the proposal to turn the Central Election Commission into the Central Election Commission of Ukraine is quite right. Because Ukraine is and, I hope, will remain a unitary state. And what is now being done as a bourgeois opposition is being stretched out by Ukraine because of what is called local self-government, which is dehumanizing itself from the central branch of power, which is a death for Ukraine. We can accept the need for a printed body for the Central Election Commission of Ukraine. We can agree that local referendums should be expanded. You can agree that somehow you have to reduce the risk of counterfeiting, but it's a waste of money, because it's being despised by capital, it's always going to find someone to buy and how to push your person into any commission and at any level. So this is all just an improvement in the form of bourgeois legislation on the electoral process. But this form does not properly fill the content of the electoral process for the benefit of the workers. And the content remains now, unfortunately, and including in these bills as it was, is and will be in the condition of a bourgeois democracy -- to ensure that his posse of capital triumphs. The issue of the victory of the workers can be resolved only in the context of the second edition of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. Let's work on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u50	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! What is now being proposed is not even funny, it is tragic and tragic what has been reported today, including on behalf of a special committee to vote in favour. What's "for"? Let's think about it. Powers are removed from the Supreme Council, provided for in article 85, that the appointment of alternate and successive elections to local self - government bodies and the powers of the Supreme Council is transmitted to the CLTC. The first is a brutal violation of the Constitution. You say "yes!" But forgive me, but the Righteous One is ten times the Rabbit, when he says, "By whom is this law?" Under thieves, it's a law against criminals! Next. But you're taking your authority from the President. You're setting the prizes for the CBC. You're setting the awards for the C.V.C.K. Next, you set up, you destroy the envisaged article 7 today I am addressing Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov. Sergei Vasilovich, I refer to you with great respect, you know that Odessa is buzzing today, you know how many references are being made to article seven today, and you've been giving this explanation on even television and it is. I think it was going to sound somewhere else. But the proponents of the bill also make changes in the article seven. And what do you write there, Your Honor? And you write, you clean up those requirements, you make up the executive organs, you write other government bodies, you write marriages, you have close relatives of candidates, and you're in their custody. You're opening the way to abuse, to mass abuse. Next, you set an administrative responsibility to close absolutely any mouth, as it was done in Mukachevo, but you set a fine of 100 minimum wages. So 20,500 dollars, if today! People good, have you ever heard of a fine like that? So have any of you ever read this law that was signed by the Roadside, the Keykovsky Anishtuk? Has anyone read it at all or not? From the first to the last line? You then set up the payment that the Cabinet of Ministers will give you, you set the staff of the Secretariat to check, stress, check that activity. checking the activities of executive authorities, local self-government, political parties, other participants in the process. As far as I'm
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u51	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You read it from beginning to end. Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u52	The cloud, the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a parliamentary request to the Head of the Supreme Council: who set up a procedure for considering this law? One of the most important laws in Ukraine, which has a direct bearing on the formation of power, is considered a reduced procedure. Please consider this to be my question to the Head of the Supreme Council. And the second. I know that in the absence of time, we cannot stop at the analysis of the proposed bills. The only thing I want to do at the beginning is that the first reading needs to be accepted, because there are very important changes that are meant to be improved. This is a bill proposed by the National MP Galina Garmash. As for the bill proposed by the People's Deputies Onichuk and others, this bill is aimed at significantly worsening the conditions of the election, creating conditions for abuse. And this is reflected in many articles, including article seven, where my colleagues have already stopped. In article six, if, for example, the bill of amendments to the sixth article of the Harmash is that the President should take into account in his proposal for parties, groups and factions that are parliamentary, then our "known" lawyers, in paws, say that the President can count. It's a formula that has no legal implications, it's an attempt to be able not to take account of itself, but just to be able to make suggestions according to their sympathies or antipathies. The seventh article deprives us of the possibility of preventing a number of positions in other structures of the State members of the Central Electoral Commission. It is clear that this bill is proposed under, first of all, Mr. Kiwalov, who has turned out to be an evil lawbreaker who is now an illegal member of the High Council of Justice by taking office on the Central Electoral Commission. I ask all national MPs with a sense of responsibility to respond and reject. In no way can this bill be adopted, for in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, 1 minute to school. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u54	No, before the vote, I will also make an opinion to the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, because I would like anyone who pushes the "yes" or "against" button to be aware of the process that there is. You know, there are direct lobbyist laws that lobby certain financial groups, financial structures and certain individuals, and in this situation this lobbyist law is called upon to support, in fact, the head of the Central Electoral Commission. After the situation in the Odessa constituency, where the daughter of today's head of the Central Electoral Commission floats, plus the removal of the obstacles that allow the Central Electoral Commission to run simultaneously and be on the High Council of Justice. This is contrary to today's Constitution, all the other laws that are Ukraine, so to understand why this is happening, you have to know that by voting in favour of the law proposed by the three people's deputies, he lobbies the interests of one person who leads the Central Election Commission. From this point of view, you all have to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, from the place of Oneschuk. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u56	Thank you for the opportunity. Literally thesis is in order of replicas. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that among the authors is his colleague in the Jury Klukkowski faction. [[This is for Yuri Anatolia Carmazin.]] The second circumstance is that the Science and Technology Administration is asking and recommending its approval as a basis. Third. The project actually has some discussion positions, and here, the colleagues who were speaking are actually right. But there is a second reading to take into account some of them, remove something, supplement it. Well, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I will answer Stepan Ilkovich's request to the head of the Supreme Council. All those who signed up and wanted to speak took part in the discussion. So by large we had a full procedure, not for a brief discussion, but for a complete one. Before the vote, please, Carmazin, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! Now, Mr. Onischuk was named my last name and it was said that our member of the Yuri Klukkowski faction signed under this bill. This is the question of his conscience under which he signed, and the appeal to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which has accounted for about a dozen violations of the Constitution in this law, including, I underline, both the rights of the Supreme Council and the rights of the President of Ukraine, is to say that the Aparata workers have been under furious pressure, but they have objectively written twenty violations of the more brutal in their conclusions and have come to their conclusion honestly. This was done by Havronuk and Lagus and signed by Matsuk. But under pressure, they wrote that. So I want everyone to know. Thank you. I beg you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u59	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, be careful. I will put to the vote a draft decree, which is passed by the co-chairs of the Temporary Special Commission, Gavrish and Moroz, on the basis of the draft Supreme Council: [[Registration number 5235/P]] First. Adopt the draft Amendment Act as a basis. Dear colleagues! I would ask if the chairman would not interrupt. I'll give the cook from the procedure, but don't yell, because it's a waste of your energy. Why are you here? There's no Frost. I repeat, the motion for a ruling by the co-chairs of the Temporary Special Commission of Gavrish and Moroz, registration number of this Order 5235-P. The decree says two points, be careful. "Adopt the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Road, Keykowski, Oneichuk, Registration Number 5235." The other one. To entrust the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council with the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine to generalize all proposals that will come from entities of the law of the legislative initiative. And when this bill is being drafted for consideration in the second reading, take into account the individual positions contained in the draft law passed by Ukrainian national deputy Gavrish, registration number 4289. Please, the cook from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich! First of all, refer to a specific rule of the Rules, which allows you to put to the vote a bill that is practically an alternative bill to a bill that has since come before it. So this is a 4289 bill that was registered long before, which is evidenced by the numbering of the bills that have been registered. And according to the Rules, I certainly don’t remember what the norm is, but first of all, you have to put in place the bill that was previously registered. More than that, what are we talking about? Some kind of decree that applies to bills. I still demand, Adam Ivanovich, that you put to the vote Bill 4289, then put to the vote 5235. And in the case that neither bill nor the other bill receive a corresponding number of votes, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, calm down. Once again, unfortunately, there was a technical error, we had no right to look at these bills together, because they were not alternatives. Bill number 4289 refers to changes to one 6th article of the whole law. And the next bill, 5235, applies to the whole law. And that's why, unfortunately, because of technical error, we didn't go the right way. So I'm going to say again how we're going to vote. We will now vote in this order. We're going to vote on a motion for a temporary special commission that proposes to be based on a law in the first reading that covers all changes to the CLTC. In the second paragraph, we assign that the second reading should be considered, that is, we support the bill of amendments to the 6th article of this law, introduced by Galina Harmash, and we will consider it later on in the second reading. If we don't make that decision, we're going to find another option. That's why I'm voting on draft ruling 5235-P. Please vote. [[12:15:34]] For 234 The bill was adopted. I'm stressing again for the transcript. Dear colleagues, we voted on the basis of Bill 5235 and commissioned a temporary special commission to take into account the standards contained in the Bill of Galina Fedorovna Harmash. Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine - 0, Ukraine - 43, Communist - 59, Social-Democracy - 22, Labour Ukraine - 29, Socialist - 18, Block Timoshenko - 0, Center - 1, Democratic Initiatives - 15, People's Government - 14, Agrarian Party - 16, People's Choice - 8, NDP - 2, Postfraction - 7. Yes. Three minutes out of the procedure, sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Kostinuk. He's behind him, Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u63	Please, the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u64	Okay. Adam Ivanovich, if we are guided by your, I do not understand and I do not understand the Rules, the logic that these two bills were not alternatives, you are now obliged to put to the vote a bill under registration number 4289 in order for the Supreme Council to decide on its approval in the first reading. So I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, now put to the vote Bill 4289. Or for a stenographer, claim that the bill was also adopted in the first reading. For the transcript, 4289 is accepted in the first reading if you do not put it to the vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u65	Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u66	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I also don't understand why, after considering the Galina Harmash bill, we didn't make any decisions at all on what basis and how the bills were being considered, but we didn't make decisions. Why so? I don't think it should be, and finally it's completely true to Roman Zvaric: let's put this bill to the vote and make a decision. If you think it should be taken into account, this is the decision, in that bill, which is supported, to take the basis, it also has the right to be drafted by Galina Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u67	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u68	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out right away that if there was a vote in the package of these two bills, then we should have voted in the package at the same stage, i.e. we should have adopted in the first one bill and in the second. So we don't have one here. In fact, it's possible not to talk about alternativeity, it's what I agree with, but the fact that these are different bills is definitely different, they're just different in nature. If the Bill of Three People’s Deputies changes and is fundamental to the CLTC, Harmash law allows for the revision of the sixth drastic article of the CLP Law. So I think the best thing to do is to put the law of the deputy of the Supreme Council of Harmash to a stand-alone vote. Then it's going to remove the Colosseum, because the decision that was proposed by the Committee is one thing. And the whole other thing is the session room and the chairman. That's why I'm asking you to put Garmash's law to a separate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u69	Gavriluk, please. He's been trying to get his word for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u70	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to make one point. Adam Ivanovich, we have the agenda for the May 14 day session on our hands today, where we have a clear agenda. And we considered that we should have considered the shorter procedure of 4289, 5235. And the draft decree you said Adam Ivanovich didn't hand it over to us. Where did he come from? And why did the TSC start looking at him so urgently? I'd like that. Yeah, we didn't talk about it, we didn't talk about it. I would still like to follow the procedure and give such materials and regulations to MPs in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, you see, as chairman, I want to be tolerant, but you ask for it. So be careful when you speak. For Vasil Vasilovich, I remind you that the bill that we voted on, the draft decree, was handed down a long time ago, and this decision was taken on 29 March 2004. There's no rush, no, so to speak, there's no avala here, all according to how it was included. That's the first one. Secondly, I repeat what I said at the request of Stepan Ilkovich, that we essentially had his discussion not as short as possible, but as full procedure, because all the six national deputies who signed up. The seven national deputies who signed up for the speech were given the opportunity and took the floor. But because you have an insistence, because you want to, well. You don't want to understand what we voted, practically, for two bills, because one law is the basis, and the other, because this is a change to one article, and then I ask you to vote: who is in favour of adopting a bill to amend the article of the Sixth Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, registration number 4289, please vote. [[12:22:40]] For 124 So, your honorary colleagues, if you follow logic, you and I have now cancelled the second paragraph of the first decision, which is instead of supporting Galina Fedorovna, you've done her a bear service. Let her thank you. Yes, please. The motives are over. Here we go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. [[on the Moratorium on raising prices for bread products]] Registration number 3373. Reported by the Puzakov People’s Deputy. Question complete, please sit down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u72	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices has shown that the Cabinet of Ministers and government authorities have not developed an effective social protection mechanism against rising food prices and their consumption has declined significantly since 1990 when the law was adopted. For example, if there were 68 kg of meat per capita in 1990, 373 kg milk, 272 kg eggs, 141 kg of bread, and 141 kg of bread and bread products, in 2002 there were 28 kg of meat, 205 kg of milk, 188 pieces of eggs, and 130 kg of bread and bread. By calorie consumption of basic foods decreased by 886 kilocalories. By protein content, by 28.1 grams, by fat, by 50.8 grams. Statistically, there has been an annual decline in the consumption of bread as the main food for families with three or more children and in households with medium - souled aggregate costs of up to 60 rubies per month per person. Social tensions have increased particularly in 2003 and early this year, when short - term government and executive policies have created preconditions for uncontrolled increases in prices for bread. This has a negative impact on the consumption of the population of Ukraine, 80 percent of which is outside the poverty line. Therefore, by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and its leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, although on this issue, I think that this issue should have been initiated by the leadership of the state in the presence of the President and the Prime Minister, as is done worldwide. True, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma drew attention to poverty as early as 2001, by the end of the 7th year of the presidency, and then even under his control. And it manages to control it brilliantly, in coffeehouses, and in full compliance with the establishment of an international currency fund. The criminal disregard of the situation, the constant deception and misinformation of the population, the indifference and incompetence of the Government, the usual search for culprits have led Ukraine to lose the remnants of food and national independence, and, according to the President and the Prime Minister, we hear very often that no poverty, drought, earthquake has occurred. On the contrary, it is quietly raised from a rate of up to 2 per cent per annum. And that is what we see in the food market of the country, which has led criminal reforms to disaster. So I repeat that by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and its leader, Petro Mikolayovich Simonenko, it is proposed to establish a moratorium on rising prices for bread and bread products: grains, sugar, meat, milk, oil - to achieve the minimum wage and pensions, the level of subsistence minimum and the corresponding increase in purchasing power of the vast majority of the population. The adoption of the proposed Law of Ukraine amending the Law on Prices and Prices provides for increased control and responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers and executive authorities in respect of the level of fixed prices for bread and bread products, groats, sugar, meat, milk, oil, which took place at the time of the adoption of the law, by establishing a moratorium on their growth to achieve minimum wage and pension levels of living minimum. The adoption of the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices will reduce social tension in society, protect low-security levels of the population from further poverty and the loss of the ability to purchase essential food, namely bread and bread, bread, sugar, meat, milk, oil. And to protect people from hunger and destruction, I ask all the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, national deputies in bright jackets! I'm asking you not to name your last names. Please do not add gray hair to your head. And if you want to argue, you can do it elsewhere. On behalf of the committee, the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national ownership and investment, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the very question of a moratorium on basic food prices in Ukraine shows that there are serious calculations in our government's socio-economic policies. Today’s government does not lack declarations about the social orientation of its program. Regrettably, an analysis of the standard of living of average citizens shows that improvements to this level exist only in reports from national statistical authorities. Data on the actual level of expenditure, which is today recognized as an objective indicator of living standards in the world, so data, I repeat, on the actual level of expenditure of citizens show that in recent times it is not less than 2/3, and in individual periods and 3/4 of citizens are forced to live below the minimum level of consumption. The government's proposals regarding radical or radical changes in the legislative settlement of this problem are unfortunately not received. Although this rostrum has already been mentioned, it is the government that should have made proposals rather than trade for months and years, as we are doing today, how to present those pitiful subsidies that are currently being practiced in our Ukraine — whether addressed or not. There is a world practice, one can refer to such a beloved Western experience by our individual actors. When those population groups who are forced to live on low actual incomes today receive, say, product vouchers and have them at their disposal. And the state doesn't have a headache. And we have, unfortunately, this kind of policy that is being pursued today, when words say one thing: social protection, social policy orientation, and in fact today we have huge debts to the population to pay for housing, colossal debt to the population to pay for utility services, to pay for electricity, which in itself shows that there is no money in the people needed to meet the minimum needs. So this picture today shows that the social policy of Ukraine, and its part that deals with the more acute problems, is now in extreme decline. And we don't think it adorns the government. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Given that the government and its leadership in particular are operating at the rate of overall economic growth, I cannot help but say that the activities of individual ministries, especially the ministries of the economic bloc of government today, are causing justified and very fair criticism. We should finally go back to the face of people's needs, not to say that for 10 years we've been talking about going to Europe, now in one night we've all come back and say, "Yeah, we're going to Europe." But that doesn't mean we're going to join the European Union. We'll go our own way. Thus, it took 10 years not to forget the copying of booklets from the so - called Western experience and recommendations of the IMF, but to produce its sovereign policy for the restoration of our Ukraine. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of People's Agriculture, Property, Investments considered at its meeting another 25. 11.2003 Bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, which was submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Simonenko, Parubko and Puzakov under registration number 3373 of 4.11.2003. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u75	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. So, please, short procedure two for two, two against. Candlestick. Get ready, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u76	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Unfortunately, such an extremely important bill for our people is being considered in an empty hall. Most of the Presidential is in a large minority right now. They don't care. For days we were forced to vote in favour of a pitiful addition to the subsistence minimum of 20 dollars. Because another bourgeois government in Ukraine did not offer. What do you mean, "alive minimum"? This is the smallest amount of money that a person can have — not develop physically and spiritually — but survive. On the 362nd anniversary, 33 copies of current food prices and basic necessities of public services tariffs that are not regulated by the State and that are released for repurchase to a market or to a monopoly’s own discretion cannot normally be lived on. You need at least twice as much. And the majority of the labour force, including pensioners, receives monthly income of about 50 percent of the living minimum. If the State is to regulate the living minimum, as well as the minimum wage, pensions, and other social benefits, it should regulate prices and tariffs as an expression and advocate of the interests of every citizen. That's exactly what we're not seeing today. The repeated proposals of the Communist faction, including Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, and I have also personally made proposals for price and tariff regulation, the moratoriums on their growth until the minimum pensions and wages are equal to the minimum wage, are constantly ignored by the valid and previous governments, the presidential majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So when we were looking at the draft of the zero bet import bill last October, I suggested that I write that in order not to allow for the increase in the retail price of bread and bread products. The Supreme Council did not support it. And here's the decision we made last November about the Cabinet of Ministers' information on measures to prevent mortality and disability of the population as a result of cardiovascular and vascular diseases, where my proposal went through, in order, to ensure that public regulation of food prices, essentials and housing and utility tariffs is regulated. But this decree is not being implemented to the extreme regret of this government. True, recent government proposals have been made to match the minimum pensions and wages with the minimum wage in the future. That's commendable, but it's before the presidential election. This will not be done. So I'm proposing to support the draft Ukrainian Law, introduced by the national deputies Simonenko, Parubek and Puzakov, on price regulation, on the size of the minimum prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u77	Yeah, one for it. Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u78	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, the adoption of this law is urgently needed in the face of huge increases in tariffs, prices, price increases at all, especially since the increase in poverty wages, pensions, benefits and scholarships is far behind in price and tariff increases. Every MP will vote in favour of the bill if he is not indifferent to the plight of the people. As respectable fellow countrymen, we, the Communists, ask the deputies elected in the districts, the parties, the factions to report to you, such as these deputies, the factions vote in favour of the laws needed by the people, including the bill. We, members of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, also undertake to report to all voters of Ukraine, as voted by the factions of the deputies here, and to indicate what will be the response to the appeal of the Ukrainian People's Deputies and the request to the President, the Government of Ukraine, the Procurator-General of Ukraine, the Chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee on the criminal de facto order of the Minister of Transport of Cyprus for the withdrawal of funds from the ports of Ukraine, including the Kerchny Sea Trade Port in favour of Delta Lutzman. Many articles of many laws have been violated. In any State, it would probably be planted. We are waiting for an answer, and only if the order is lifted, which will confirm the above-mentioned authority for the establishment of the rule of law or for crimes to be committed, including by ministers. Of course, the court can only determine the crime, but let the Attorney General's Office, the President, the Government and refer the matter to the court. That's probably what they should do. Come on, the prices. Please note that respectable compatriots are involved in all of this. And when the Communists sold a law prohibiting the raising of charges for public services, passenger transport, capitalist supporters still abolished it by means of the Constitutional Court. Now the Constitutional Court seems to be taking a more independent stand, thank God. Please note that it is the capitalists who need a leave of prices to create large capital in order to further privatize in order to preserve the capitalist power that destroys the economy. We must turn to the socialist path through future presidential elections, choosing only a supporter of socialism. Without it, Ukraine will be poor, robbed, and the people will be helpless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u79	Yes, Yuri Petrovich, would you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u80	Of course I'll be against capitalism. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, distinguished colleagues! We are considering such an extremely important bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices for introducing a Moratorium to increase prices for bread products. But we're basically sitting in an empty hall. Those who are so visually and theatrically hurting from this rostrum for the fate of the disadvantaged Ukrainian people on Our Ukraine's side, well, these guys, perhaps less than ten today, the Bolsheviks, maybe 10 or 15. They've practically disappeared from the Yulia Tymoshenko block. The Communists are practically all in town. So I want to tell you, people are good, listen, and listen to Ukraine! I want to turn to the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the children of war: You remember 1947. The first drop in bread prices, other essentials. And then it happened every year. Price regulation at the state level is possible primarily in the context of a planned, socialist economy. Unfortunately, she's not here today. Is it possible that in a market, capitalist economy, where there are market conditions, first and foremost, the interests of the so-called producer, national or foreign? Under certain circumstances, it is possible. This is possible when: the law that we are discussing will be adopted first; and then we will deal with a list of population types that have the right to benefit from this law; and the next question is, when we anticipate in the 2004 budget, maybe in the 2005 budget a line is separate from the costs associated with the implementation of this moratorium. That's why I'm addressing all the Ukrainian national MPs, regardless of their political preferences: if you're really national MPs, if you really don't just promise in the constituencies that you'll support these troubled, hungry people who freeze the winter in their homes, then you have to support this bill and those proposals that I've just mentioned and without which we can't implement this law. I urge every national advocate to vote in favour of this law. Thus we will live up to the expectations of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u82	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity." Good afternoon, good health to all of you, distinguished voters, honourable deputies. You know, to my deep conviction, the question that is being raised today is deeply provocative. And its acceptance in the form proposed can be very damaging to Ukraine. Of course, on the one hand, the law is called upon to protect millions of our citizens from rising prices for bread, and not to vote in favour of this bill, I don't think anyone will get a raise. Of course, here, I think this bill will be voted on. But let's think about it from the other side. This law will strike very seriously into the village that is now in the deepest crisis. Where will we get the bread tomorrow? If we think that the bread shops, the factories, the breadcombs, will suffer damage, we are deeply mistaken. The damage will all be passed on to the peasant. The one with his hand stretched out today has nothing to sow, no. I'm convinced that sooner or later the heads of the government will come, they'll all come, they'll take the last bread from the peasant. The last wheat in the field at the lowest price and then sold at the highest price. Please tell me, isn't that what happened last year? We do. At what price did we get bread from a peasant? 610 bucks. At what price are they selling today? Two hundred, almost two times. Please tell me who suffered the damage. What, did the cartilage carry these losses? No, it's not. So I think this is a very serious question, but this is a question that needs to be addressed in a complex. It's in the compound with all the food market. The food market can be effectively regulated in another way -- through knowledge, through the granting of subsidies to the farmer -- what you say yourself. On the other hand, it can be termed as pre-produced grain, grown by farmers, which can be subsidized at an early stage. And today, I'm going to adopt this bill again, and I'm saying that no one will have a hand to vote against it, but by accepting it, we're going to put our poor peasant on his knees tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If you don't mind, the question is very important. Here's three more of us for the show. I'll give them a minute. The storm. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u84	Igor Shurma, faction of the united Social Democrats. I'd like to remind all listeners of the essence of the bill. It is proposed that a moratorium be imposed on the increase in the prices of bread and other daily consumption products until the minimum wage and pension levels are reached. Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that we should all stabilize the price of bread, but let us speak at what price. We understand very well when the minimum wage and pensions reach a minimum of living. And for this period of time, we need to listen to the previous speaker. Who will compensate the price producers? We think about each other and do not think about others. Hence, compensation payments to unprotected population groups should be targeted both from a social and an economic point of view. So in our view, the bill should be sent for rereading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u85	Please, Nigger. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! If the situation were normal, the law would be unnecessary. If we had a real, competitive, efficient market to regulate prices, this law would be unnecessary. But since the market is governed by a monopolies ball, the intermediaries, because the main profits are not paid by the manufacturer, but by the processor, the trade gets, the intermediaries get. If we had an effective price policy, if we had an effective social policy, this law would not be necessary. But in view of the fact that the situation is extremely critical, that there is indeed a mass poverty of the population, there is a low purchasing power of the population, that is, the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u87	As a temporary, this law is necessary, said Vladimir Kirilovich. Please, Hinzburg, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u88	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters, Hinzburg, Communist faction. I understand that there is a question that I think has two main aspects to me, as I understand it. First. The state in its responsibility is the President and the Cabinet of Ministers must make such a decision. Because they now know that the majority of the population in Ukraine have little wealth, very little wealth. The main food is only bread. That's the first one. If someone can't do that, for someone, it's very difficult, then we Communists, who at the same time took 15 copies of bread for one loaf at a time under Soviet authority, are ready to take on both the issue and the power in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u89	Well, you've done it before. Wait. If you weren't on the rostrum and you weren't expressing your thoughts, then I'd understand that you have a motive for voting. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Price Creation, a bill tabled by Ukrainian national deputies Simonenko, Parubko and Puzakov, registration number 3373. [[on the Moratorium on raising prices for bread products]] We're voting on the basis. [[12:52:21]] For-140. Dear colleagues, we are now voting. Please take that vote off, because you have to make the music play. Now we've got the "Race" system, that they're ready. Maybe. Are you ready for the system? We've got a system ready. So please, I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, a bill introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Simonenko, Parubko and Puzakovi, registration number 3373. [[on the Moratorium on raising prices for bread products]] Based on the base. [[12:53:24]] For-167 The factions, please. The factions. "Our Ukraine" -64; "Regions of Ukraine" -0; Communists -59; Social Democrats -0; "Trudova Ukraine" -2; "Socialist Party" -16; Block Timoshenko -16; "Centre" -1; Deminitatives, "Poverty" and "Agrarian Party" -0; "National Choice" -1; NDP -4; non-fractional -4. Semenyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u90	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, some deputies did not vote on the reason why compensation would be provided for the implementation of this appropriate law. That is, whether compensation will be awarded to the producers. I think there might be one proposal here today that can actually be considered. Today in Ukraine we have the largest oligarchs — Surkiss, Medvedchuk, Pinchuk, who have foreign accounts. It is their responsibility to allocate the appropriate grant. I think then this proposal will go well. Please, let's go back to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, we have a lot of people willing to take in "different." But before it's "different," we have today's agenda that at 12 o'clock, 55 minutes, we have to hear the question of making an oath to the members of the High Council of Justice. There have been changes in the composition of the High Council of Justice. According to the quotas established by the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, the President of Ukraine by his decree appointed a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Chernushenko Anton Vasilovich. The second meeting of Ukrainian lawyers on February 14, this year, appointed the Supreme Council of Justice, Safulka Sergio Fedorovich. In accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, members of the Supreme Council of Justice shall swear before taking office at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite you to take an oath on the stand of a member of the High Council of Justice, Sergio Fedorovich Safulka. Please, Sergey Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u92	I, Safulko Sergey Fedorovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u93	Prior to taking an oath to the rostrum, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Chernushenko Anton Vasilovich, is invited. Please, Anton Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u94	I, Chernushenko Anton Vasilovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, let us welcome Sergey Fedorovich and Anton Vasilovich, who is legally a member of the High Council of Justice, and let us express the wishes that we have always expressed to people who have a bearing on one of the branches of authority: honesty, honesty, and once again honesty in carrying out their high constitutional duties. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please provide a list of those. Ah, ah, ah, ah! I wanted to. Well, I'm almost going to say what I was going to say to explain the list of those who stayed in the hall. Now, let me put it another way: please write down who wants to participate in the discussion of the question of "Variance." Thank you. Let me explain. It's 39. I ask, fellow Members, to appreciate how well and wisely we have done with you when we have made some changes to the Rules. This is the one who works, the one who gets the word. Yes, please, we're moving on to "The Different" speeches. It takes an hour. He's handing over the towel. Please, Nosenko. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u96	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In my speech, I would like to make suggestions to the socialists of Ukraine and their leader, Alexander Alexander Moroz. In view of the situation on the left - hand political flank of Ukraine, of course, and this is confirmed by a number of electoral campaigns, the Communist Party has an avant-garde seat. I don't think anyone would deny that the Socialist Party of Ukraine was born to owe exactly the members of the Communist Party, which was banned in Ukraine in 1991. As Communists, we remember well the election campaign in 1994, when, along with the socialists, we were not afraid to lose our electorate field, we campaigned and fought for the passing of yours, Alexander Aleksandrovich, who was running for President of Ukraine. Since then, nearly a decade has gone by. Having endured both an economic and a spiritual crisis, our people have long realized that only the left forces can create a strong independent socialist state whose society will possess the principles of good and justice. In view of the above, the fact that the left-wing alma mater in Ukraine was the Communist Party banned in 1991, which now became the legal successor of the current Communist Party of Ukraine, suggested that the Socialists support the presidency, which will be promoted from the ICPO and unite their efforts in a pre-eminent campaign with the communists, has long been expected by many millions of Ukrainian communities. Instead of giving up the positions of the Socialist Party, it will be the strongest pre-election technology of the left hand forces against which neither the current regime nor the right political circles will be able to do anything, for all the political groups that do not unite around this union will bear a taurus of betrayal of the interests of workers in Ukraine or the destructives of the left hand movement. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, you will personally have much to say about the matter. I'm asking you not to join the desire of some "farses" to come out separately during the electoral campaign, because the heat from that outbreak will not be for the people of Ukraine. Take a step towards the victory of the left movement in Ukraine -- and you will enter history as a leader who has been able to overcome his ambitions for the benefit of the people. Dear Socialist brothers, we have nothing to share. It's time to pick up the stones. More than ever, after rejecting all strife and misunderstandings, we must unite in one strong fist and then strike it on the existing criminal-clan regime so firmly that everyone in and outside Ukraine understands the necessity and relevance of changing the political system of power in its territories! Let's unite because we're worth it! We'll win together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u97	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Katusheva, a faction of Communists. Prepare Semenyuk. Nodmarenko, please. Dear colleagues, I'm going to calm you all down. Kostinuk, I'll calm you down: It's a polymarine, 13th. He's going to take over for Katusze, and he's not going to be the 13th. Katusheva came out, well, physiological needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u98	Honorable deputies. Dear Deputy Zvaric and Kostinuk, let me speak. Yesterday, the leader of the Communist faction, Simonenko, gave an example of 800 million dollars earmarked by the State Budget for Investment Projects being cut down by a majority in the Supreme Council. I'm going to say that article 58's Budget Act provides that these investments are based on proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies. It would seem clear: both for the deputies and for the Cabinet of Ministers. We, a faction of Communists, all 60 national deputies, made our own proposals at the proper time to Minfin, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Budget Committee. We also made suggestions on how to divide these investments by objects. And only on April 19th did the Cabinet of Ministers adopt these ghastly 510 and 509 decrees. What was the direction in identifying public budget funds? The level of voter rights in the districts? No, it's not. The right of the people’s MP to help the electorate solve the problem? No, it's not. They were guided by the clan's interests, the principle of "deputies of ours and of strangers, of ours and of strangers." How do you understand that Carpathians -- this cradle of social democracy -- have received 88 million investments for the population of 608,000 people, and the Lviv region has received 11 million investments with a population of 2 million. Especially in the districts. A restricted area. The district of Berdjansk and four rural areas received 6.5 million. Bronnikov's MP is over 6 million. Both of them. And Communist deputy Anatoly Moroz for a district that includes the city of Tokmak and 6 rural areas, only 150,000. You ask him how many calls he's making today. on this subject. Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets adopted a regulation and draft law that put the 510 and 509 rulings to the Supreme Council to a standstill. suspend the operation of article 58 of the budget, i.e. this budget was divided by terms. I'm talking to my colleagues. Those who got the money on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u99	Yes, thank you. Please, Boki passes the word Semenyuk. Get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u100	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! As a member of the 3rd vocations, listening to his colleague at the faction of the Nosenk Communists, who so beautifully urged me from the Supreme Council's rostrum about the only candidate from the left-wing forces to support the Communists, I want to say. You need to think with your head and live with your mind, not what you wanted to do. I'm so sorry you're talking today. Not from the rostrum, but at the negotiating table, by combining the organizations and the evil ambitions that were, are and remain. I was a delegate to the Socialist Party’s second assembly, and I survived all the abuses that had taken place since 1991 and became a deputy in the constituency. And I remember 1998 very well, and I was in Parliament in a Communist faction. Never from the rostrum, not even in the press, said anything to the Communists. And I think if you're a wise person, you don't decide from the rostrum and you don't talk here. Please don't make these stupid hasty conclusions. You have repeated several times that Frost has accepted a bourgeois constitution, and today you demand to do so. You've talked every time about what the Frost has done wrong in one way or another, but today it's all like what's important to us today, not the question of the presidency, but the change in the system of power. And we have to have a common language here in this room, even with those deputies who have to support us, and we have to decide the only candidate issue, on the fourth of July of this year, not now. And I'm very sorry. And I'd like to say to you, don't do any more of that. I just, as a friend, as a colleague of yours, want to turn to that. The second question is what I would like to say. The Socialist Party faction, speaking from the Supreme Council's rostrum, here Alexander Alexander Alexander was addressing all the deputies, let's not send any troops to Iraq. Lifetime, as well as the Humlins, as other regions have suffered, and today those planes that deliver those dead bodies of the boys, no one meets those who voted for it. And I think we need to go back today, and I'm sorry that there are no majority representatives here before that question. And that's what I'm going to say. Dear Communists, we must do everything and unite here. The third question I'd like to raise is what I said this morning. About the fact that today the Cabinet of Ministers stole 10 million shares from Oranta's stockholder company. And actually, because of the extra show, he transferred this stock company to the firm, directly to President Pinchuku's son-in-law. It is a sad question that this question has not been addressed today. I hope, Adam Ivanovich, that next Sunday we should consider this question. And you can't allow the stretching of state property under the patronage of the President to the oligarchs who are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u101	Please give the floor to the National MP, Zvaric. Prepare Solomon. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. To whom is the word? Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u102	Can I talk to you? George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". A statement by Victor Yushchenk's faction "Our Ukraine" about the explosions at military warehouses in Zaporozhye County. "The half-breeds! The events in the village of Novogoddanovka, in the district of Zaporozhye, when stockpiles of ammunition flew into the air, bringing death and fear to the Ukrainians ’ homes, indicate that the Ukrainian authorities today are unable to control the situation in the country and to guarantee the safety of its citizens. We express deep indignation at the way present - day rulers view the fulfillment of the responsibilities imposed on them by the Ukrainian people. As a complete absence of power in the state, we appreciate the reaction of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, who described the event in Zaporozhye as an unfortunate coincidence. We claim that death cannot be a sad accident because of the negligence and negligence of the higher leadership of the state. It may not be an accidental threat to human life and health within a radius of 70 kilometers [70 km] from the epicenter of explosions. And the fact that 40 kilometers from the village of Novogoddanovka is located in Zaporezka’s AES speaks for itself. We stress that the event in the village of Novogoddanovka is a direct result of the inactivity of executive power. As early as February 2003 and March 9, 2004, the President of Ukraine commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers and the Secretary of Defense to review the implementation of the programmes to ensure the viability of arsenals and the disposal of obsolete ammunition. However, neither the government nor the Ministry of Defence have made the right conclusions. The first call to tragedy was the events in Artemis in October of last year, when 100 million ammunitions flew into the air. Happily, then, there were no human sacrifices. Today we have a New God-given girl. What's going to happen tomorrow? The faction "Our Ukraine" expresses deep sympathy for the families who died as a result of the tragedy in Zaporozhye. We demand that the law enforcement agencies conduct a comprehensive investigation and bring to justice those who turn Ukraine’s Armed Forces from the guardian of the country into a source of danger. We demand an immediate report from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Prime Minister and Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the events in the Zaporozhye region, as well as the situation in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. To this end, we also insist on the creation of an appropriate parliamentary commission of inquiry. And those reforms, which unfortunately are now taking place in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, confirm the correct position of the "Our Ukraine" faction that it is necessary to have an urgent hearing with the agenda on the state of affairs in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because what is currently happening in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is unacceptable things, and it is only creating unnecessary social tension in Ukrainian society among Ukrainian soldiers. And to translate responsibility for what happened, unfortunately, in Novogoddanitsa, into a lack of reform is to translate the problem from a sick head to a healthy one. Reforms and observances of discipline and order and high standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u103	Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction. Instead of Locking, prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u104	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. According to the instructions of the Kiev City Association of Russian Culture, I have to make a statement for the media and the MPs who remain in the session room. In the early 1990s, a mechanism to destroy our people's historical consciousness and memory was set aside for some hostile ideological centres. This mechanism worked on the example of the destruction of the memory of the Great Homeland War and the slander of the great victory marshal George Zhukov. The essence of the slander of Marshal Zhukov is to systematically spread as a historical fact of the well - known Hebelsian lie about the existence of the so - called joint order No. 0078/42 of June 22, 1944, Baria and Zhukov of evicting the Ukrainians to Siberia. The beginning of this vicious provocation was back in 1992, when the newspaper of Ukrainian writers, from the handover of a democratic historian, archaeologist Vasil Marochkin, who later, after carrying out a dirty task of witnessing a respected academic, the Ukrainian national deputy fled from Ukraine, emigrated to Canada, published this slander on her desks. Then, when the hebelsian sources of this provocative lie were documented, she was forced to print a denunciation. And the battle, as it is said, is not tamed. Then it was printed again and again in so - called democratic media. But the truth, pour it in your eyes, all of God's dew. The scientific denial of this unworthy lie has been repeated. And I'm only going to highlight four major official objections. First. At the Ukrainian national level, the Central State Archives of Ukrainian Social Organizations rebuttal in "Literatura Ukraine" on March 5, 1992. In the military history magazine "Moscow" number 4, 5, 1992. Third. The chief arch administration at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: "Look out! A fake!", Government courier, number 163, October 20, 94. The Kyiv City Prosecutor's Office for Legal Counsellor Latuk, the appeal in the Ukrainian newspaper on December 22, 94 and so on. But again, I declare, spit in the eyes, all the dew of God. And even from the rostrum of the Supreme Council and right here we, the Supreme Council, have some deputies from "Ours."that is, "Not our Ukraine" and the block of July Timoshenko spread this unworthy lie. Pay attention to the provocateurs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u105	The word has the national deputy of Hinsburg instead of Droguntsov. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u106	Dear national MPs, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters! While working in the district, both I and my colleagues may be present in the support room, there is often a question of how to form, especially in the rural area, how to form an inheritance if a family died or if a family member or a man or woman died, the house remained, and notaries and local authorities took a lot of money to transform it. And many of the problems in our disadvantaged people arise in this regard. I got an answer to my question, another request from my Justice Department, and I want voters to hear some questions right now. In accordance with article 19 of the Act on Notariat for Notarial Action, for the provision of additional services by state notaries, the fees set out by the Administration of Justice of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Crimea, district, Kiev and Sevastopol City Administrations, for the provision of such additional services are directed to the State Budget. But according to sub-paragraph Z, paragraph 3, of the Third Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 93 for the issuance of a certificate of inheritance to one of the spouses, parents, adult children, grandchildren, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandmothers and other heirs, there is a government duty. The benefits for payment of government duties are provided for in article four of the Decree. In particular, according to paragraphs 16 and 18 of the above - mentioned article of the decree, citizens are exempt from the payment of public duties for their right to an inheritance, for the property of persons who were first killed in the protection of the Soviet Union and Ukraine, for other public or public duties, or for the duty of a citizen to save the lives of others or collective property, as well as for persons who have died or died as a result of the disease associated with the Chernobyl disaster, for the property of persons rehabilitated in an orderly housing establishment, for food in a residential building cooperative, for an apartment belonging to an heir to a legal private property, and, most importantly, for housing in a rural area, on condition that these citizens live permanently in these homes. And so on and so forth. In addition, pursuant to Article 5 of that Decree, local councils have the right to provide additional benefits to individual taxpayers for the payment of government duties, which are included in local budgets, and the Ministry of Finance should also provide benefits for government duties, which are included in the National Budget of Ukraine. So, honourable voters, these are all rights you have the right to use. This is Decree of 21.01.93, number 7/93. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u107	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. Please, Mironenko. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u108	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, with a view to withdrawing the economy and society from the crisis, insist on the following specific measures. First, the end of universal privatization, which is rightly referred to as a robbery, so-called criminal revolution in the people. Second, nationalization, the return of strategic sectors of the economy to the State for the benefit of the people. We have strategic industries working for the country and for the people throughout the Soviet period, now working for the oligarchs, who make up somewhere with an estimated 1-2 per cent, and the rest of the people are suffering, unharmed. Third. Public budgets should be adopted annually so that we can make the necessary funds for economic development. And then, of course, if the robbery that exists stops, and through privatization, the open robbery that I've already talked about today, and then we'll have money for health, education, the Veterans' Status Act and much, much more than we now have, uh, not. It is necessary to ensure that the banking system does not work on oligarchs, as is currently the case. And we know that now, all the banks are working for the oligarchs, destroying the economy, destroying the people. A bank, the State Bank for Reconstruction and Development must be established. The Soviet Union had a public-bank system, it had a good investment in the economy and science, and science was also suffering enormously, and especially fundamental science. Japan, France and other countries, which are often called capitalist, but which have taken a great deal from us, are now moving in many ways in a socialist direction: they have created state-owned investment banks that provide investment for industry, agriculture, science and so on. There is no doubt that it is necessary for the Company of Ukraine to fundamentally change its foreign policy orientation. We remember when we were told in the late 1980s that if we were to eliminate the union of brotherly republics, we would be independent, then Ukraine would be as rich as France and Russia would be told that Russia would be as rich as Kuwait. [[They were there, too.]] And Russia is now poor, and Ukraine is now poor. In fact, not only is there no investment - there is no productivity growth, on the contrary, a decline, a fall in science, in everything. We must therefore ensure that the economic ties that have already been destroyed are restored. In my district and in other regions of Ukraine, the economy is largely destroyed by privatization of universal and economic ties with Russia, Belarus and other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u109	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich, if you'll excuse me, you'll have your word. I'd like to introduce you to the message. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the protocol of the National Assemblys of Ukrainian People's Deputies of 14 May 2004, we report on the formation of the parliamentary faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. The purpose of the activities of the Democratic People's Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to consolidate efforts to build a democratic, legal, socially oriented state. Reference is made to article 1 of the Constitution. So far authorized to represent the faction of the Deputy Desert Tenko and Anishtuk. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the Black Sea. Get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u110	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! The greatest crimes in a civilized world are manslaughter and the falsification of election results. In the elections in Mukachev, there was a bold, rude, cynical falsification of the results of the elections. I was an observer from the OSCE in Azerbaijan, where the election was falsified. But even there, the authorities did not use criminal elements to kidnap ballots. This is actually a disgraceful Ukrainian know-how. Nowhere in the world has it ever been that there was a mass kidnapping of ballot papers and on this basis the falsification of election results. The events in Mukachev are a manifestation of political banditry that poses a serious threat to democracy in Ukraine. The government went to the Union with criminality to usurp power. The events in Mukachev testify to an increase in the trend towards the fascism of political life in Ukraine. There's no exaggeration. And this cannot help but cause anxiety especially before the presidential elections in Ukraine. I was a member of the election campaign in 1989, and I was elected as the national deputy of the Soviet Union from Kiev. I testify that the level of democratization of political life in 1989 was higher or perhaps more orderly than it is now. In 15 years of our struggle for democracy, we have come to such a shameful state. I have to admit it, and it is my duty to say it now. He should also say that it was a shame to hear the information of the Attorney General, the deputy minister of internal affairs, and the deputy head of the Security Service. It was as if someone had put a gun on their backs, and their lives were in danger. After all, you must have human dignity, and you must resist the furious pressure that is being exerted upon you, and fulfill your duty. Witness testimony and information from law enforcement authorities indicate that there were gross violations in the elections in Mukativ. Law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u111	Please, Melnik, a faction of socialists instead of Seminoga. Let's get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u112	Mikola Melnik, Winnichtina, Socialist Party of Ukraine Deputies! Dear voters! Regrettably, today the nation is ruled by thieves in the law who are consciously leading to total bankruptcy in production and by peasants to unheard of poverty. A clear example of such crimes against the village is the blocking of legislation on meat, milk and a number of other projects that would make life easier for the peasant. The draft law here was blocked by a criminal clan, it envisioned a 25-euro bribe for export abroad of mineral fertilizers and the removal of customs from them, and from those fertilizers that are being shipped to Ukraine from abroad. The bill was able to facilitate the purchase of mineral fertilizers by the village and to produce high crops of grain. These mineral fertilizers, unfortunately too large, were not received today by the village. The Ministry’s office has reenergized the agro-industrial complex from five areas to the Cherkas combine. The spring is over, and the Czech factory owners are blocking the supply of mineral fertilizers. In the cabinet walls. After spending about a month and a half in a combination, they're sending out the peasant's money today without issuing any mineral fertilizers. After thousands of complaints from peasants, I am dialing the phone of the owner of this plant, Galijev Ernest Eduardoovich, my colleague in the Supreme Council, who has come into politics at a moment's notice that he will take care of the nation's property. And he lied, just as he lied to his entire faction, where he feels very good about himself, it's the only Ukraine. Please weigh it and give with a good heart to the villagers what is rightfully theirs. In response, the national deputy Galiev brutally states, "I bought the plant for my blood, and Janukovic for me, with his orders, near one place." I really can't tell you where he told me, it's not. Thieves in the law are not afraid of their incense. And these, in turn, have no administrations, because the interaction has become so intertwined that they have created the only criminally complete one. This Galius is now covered by Yanukovich, who does not want to find authority over this woe MP. But I'm just asking, did I buy Galie's combination that costs billions of dollars for my blood? Of course not. He didn't have a million granddaddies, but he shamelessly, cynically robbed us peasants. This arrogant business MP acts suddenly and cynically. The gas was raised by 3 percent, and the price was nearly raised by him and his friends in the factory twice. We have only one solution: Crime must be immediately separated from power and the present.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u113	Instead of the Seminoga, please, National Deputy Taran, prepare Anishtuku. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u114	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. First. Our block strongly rejects the charges against our addresses, which here appear to have been the Yulia Tymoshenko Block somewhere, which once carried out any attacks on Marshal Zhukov or other warlords or veterans of war. On the contrary, the members of our faction have become the authors of dozens of laws aimed at improving the social security of war veterans, honoring the people who have sheltered Ukraine and the whole world from the Fascist plague. I want to say that the attacks on Julia Timoshenko are being carried out because she has very high authority among the people, not today, but the price of sin. Here's the last example. In the United States, where Paul Lazarus is being tried, the U.S. court overturned all charges against Julia Timoshenko. To that end, I recall that dozens of Ukrainian courts, despite the enormous pressure from Medvedchuk and Kuchma, concluded that no crimes had been committed by Julia Timoshenko, and now the same is stated by an international court, the United States court stated. So this lie, the TV that was saying, should at least apologize or answer who would be responsible for the prisons that Julia Timoshenko and her family were throwing at, for friends of their friends who were working in the prisons with the disabled, for embezzling her name and for embezzling the Party of Fathers. But we can say the words of Taras Shevchenk about ourselves, and this is confirmed at the highest level in the world. "We have walked honestly, we have no grain of lies behind us." Now again we see who the real thieves are -- all these Azars, bears, bushes and other sandstones. This is the face of today’s power, the power of Kuchma, Yanukovich and Medvedchuk. Their cynical and spiritless face is still visible today when authorities today waved at Ukraine’s last spiritual phropism, the Ukrainian Writer’s Association. People whose books are known throughout the world, the pride of Ukrainian writing, Zagreb, Musquetika, Lina Kostenko, and others are banished to the streets. For when the government of Yanukovich has taken 10 billion dollars out of your pensions, from your wages, he has acquired these bracelets, and now he needs to have the Writer's Society. Now, the last thing about Ukrainian democracy. And that's why, dear colleagues, I want to say that Ukrainian writers, all of Ukraine will say its final word to this power in the elections, and we will win, and Ukraine will eventually be a normal democratic state, because it is in Europe, not an area where bear ball rules and this whole company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u115	Please, Anitchuk, the Communist faction. Get ready for Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u116	Vladimir Anishtuk, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Odessa City. Dear colleagues, as you know, there will be elections in Odessa on 30 May to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the same rich aristocratic bourgeois district. You also know, unfortunately, that of the 66 applicants, only 55 have received documents. Only 25 candidates for the Supreme Council of Ukraine are registered. Only two representatives of political parties. This includes a representative of communists, the second secretary of the Odessa Compartium of Ukraine, a doctor of physics and mathematics, a professor at the Odessa National University of Mečników Copot Nikolai Harlamović. Where am I going? The other 23 are self-propelled. I am concerned as a deputy, as the leader of the regional organization of the Compartia Ukraine, with one question: how did the elections in the city of hero Odessa not turn into Mukachevo-2? Only with wider dramatic consequences. The tension in the city is increasing. Half the candidates for the deputies, I think they're sneakers. Their task was to bring their candidates to the district and district commissions. The rest of them were cut off. This is Professor Copot's headquarters, the representative of the Company of Ukraine, who comes to us with these reports. It's called, let's say, an organization where there should be a commission there -- a school, a technique, an enterprise. The Directorate is tasked: there must be 13-12 representatives of our organization in the district commission. Clearly, it is the case that one of the representatives who will form the district commissions would then be to falsify the elections. Therefore, from this high rostrum, I would like to refer to the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the case is being falsified, and our representatives, and we say that only two parties have put forward in this district, including the Compartia of Ukraine, we need to deal with this fact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u117	Thank you. Kirilchuk has the word. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I'm here to represent the block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Party of Fatherland, Volinsky District. I want to continue the topic that my colleague on the Committee on Budgets, Ponomarenko, began in his presentation. Indeed, there was a heated discussion yesterday of the issue of the distribution of capital funds, subsidies from the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine, according to the decree, of the proposals made by the National Deputies. I can firmly state that this is a crime that needs to be referred to the Attorney General's Office and brought to justice. First of all, it's the money that's been allocated by the Supreme Council and put into the budget. The Law on Budget required the Cabinet of Ministers under the Code, according to the Constitution, to distribute these funds evenly across territories in order, in part, to assist people in solving social and other problems in all areas, in all areas and districts. What did the Cabinet of Ministers and Janukovich himself do? The Prime Minister, speaking in all areas, on television, assures us that the government is working honestly, transparently, fairly. It's all a lie, to put it mildly, because the Prime Minister has personally prepared two orders, signed them, and made 20 million out of them. 10 of them on technogenic, in paws, the situation in Mukachevo, and 10 of them gave Tuzli what he had no right to do. Further, he distributed these funds to those close to him and to those far apart, just as the law and the Constitution fully deny. I demand, Adam Ivanovich, that the Supreme Council return to this issue next week and that the Prime Minister's report be heard from this rostrum so that the Coordination Council can take a decision on this matter. And it is urgent that these two decrees be repealed and that we return to the requirements of the Budget Act, the Constitution and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u119	Thank you. Well, we're going to be spending a whole day on Wednesday, probably one session on this issue: budgeting and everything that's budgeted, including talking about these things. Please, School. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u120	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to continue with those who spoke in my colleague's speech on Mr. Kirilczuk's faction. You know, when the pre-election campaign starts with the counterfeiting of the budget, it's hard for me to imagine how such a candidate in the MP can count on winning the election. You see, I'll be honest with you: what happened to the funds that went into the subsidy, it's just the opaque thing that became transparent, because there are people's deputies behind it. And the Budget Committee couldn't miss a direct, direct falsification of the document. So it became clear and obvious. What about those closed documents, those closed-circuit things that are happening in the Cabinet of Ministers, where it's virtually impossible to trace, where the Court of Auditors is not allowed to calculate the costs that were planned, and the things that were to be built and executed at that cost? What happened. In general, the subsidies, all these budget costs -- maybe not all voters, and it's clear to the end. And just to be clear, the money that the local administrations have been planning to spend on the construction of gas pipelines, schools, hospitals, roads, to you, ladies and gentlemen, they won't come -- they'll come to the selected districts, they'll come to those people's deputies who are very close and very cooperative with the existing regime. That's it. So unfortunately, I have to go to my voters in the 121st constituency and disappoint them: The Cabinet of Ministers, Yanukovich and Azarov have decided to keep you from giving money for the simple reason that they've already given it to someone else. I'd like everyone to know: and the national MPs present here, and the non-visitors here, and, above all, the electorate, that there are no national MPs in this. We control, but we can't solve all the processes. Direct and direct wine falls on today’s Prime Minister, who is responsible for government policy, at Yanukovich’s side. The election campaign had to be conducted in a different way, not to go to the Gitomirsk region with a newly appointed press secretary, not to speak and not to talk to the Zitomirians, how much good it was done, but to go to Zaporozhye where the hottest people were killed where the military, directly subordinated to the Prime Minister, failed to meet their mission, where the Ministry of Emergency Situations directly subordinated to the Prime Minister failed to meet its mission. And it is not only the ministers who are responsible, but also the Prime Minister, because they are his subjects. He failed to deal with the task of executive authority set before him. We had to conduct our pre-election rhetoric there, not in the Zitomir safe area. And this once again shows that today’s authorities will not stop at anything, either before they falsify the elections or before they steal the results, or before they burn the ballots. They will do anything to declare themselves victorious.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u121	Please have a word with Kostinük. Prepare for Matthew Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u122	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! We've all witnessed how the gray this year was celebrated by the authorities in Shevchenkov's Jubilee days -- 190th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birthday. The government did not even provide a broadcast from the Jubilee evening. They're willing to do something before the Jubilee dates, and they're all in their majority still Soviet leaders, and they haven't even set a goal for themselves until the 190th anniversary of Shevchenk's birth to learn Ukrainian language, accentuate, state language and use it, at least in the course of public service. And today, ministers are appointed who do not speak the national language. That's how much intelligence it takes to have, how much intelligence it takes to not be able to learn Ukrainian in 13 years. What is the conclusion? The conclusion is that this authority is foreign to Ukraine. In these days, the state of the national Ukrainian language is particularly acute. This situation is no different than a terrible one. State institutions do not comply with the standards of a valid Constitution for ensuring the overall development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine. Instead, every day we observe a permanent, deliberate violation by officials of all the ranks of article 10 of the Constitution, including the highest officials of the State. The question arises to law enforcement agencies, particularly the Attorney General’s Office. Should not a deliberate violation of the Constitution give rise to charges of anti-State action be treated accordingly to the law in force? The regime, through its media control, is once again said every day that the panacea of these woes is about to become, so-called, constitutional reform. While it is well known that this reform is being carried out in order to preserve the authority of the criminal regime. What, then, prevents the authorities from keeping their laws clearly in place? And where does it guarantee that this authority will adhere to new laws after carrying out what is called reform? So it's not the Constitution. Those who violate it daily do what is bad daily. Today, however, there is actually aggressive bilingualism in Ukraine. In fact, everything in Ukrainian is being destroyed. To those who rightly demand a clear and unwavering compliance with national language-related legislation, the media's control regime is somehow accused of anti-Russian sentiment. I mean, there's a substitution of concepts. Experts estimate that more than 90 percent of airtime is virtually universal. Ukrainian radio speakers are filled with foreign music products. Approximately the same ratios are maintained in the representation of native music products by television channels that speak in our country. On the air, the native music of all styles of music has virtually disappeared.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u123	Just like the sound. Thank you. Please have the floor of the Puzakov People's Deputy. Instead of Deutsche. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u124	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I cannot help but respond to the tearful requests of the veterans of the city of Kirovgrad, who on May 1st went to the festival demonstration along with the Communists and socialists under the red flags and welcomed each other with the celebration of peace, unity and solidarity. Sadly, though, not even a dozen warm words were found for these veterans in the Communist column of the city and the district authorities to greet them. How can you do that? After all, there were veterans here who, without any effort, protected their land from the enemy. A war - torn farm was built into cold and cold. Their hands produced material goods, provided continuous development in the country. And today, there's no need for these people to have steel. Even human rights defenders, the unions didn't go in a column with veterans, they led a column of "workers" headed by the head of the government and the district and city authorities. [[in quotes]] How can you be ashamed in front of people, masters of authority? Why you even broke the holiday column by making a 500 - foot [500 m] distance between them and dividing the holiday column into black and white. And greetings on the first of May are unknown to whom. Because those who walked with you didn't hear your words because they almost all talked on cell phones chewing gum. I would like to ask the mayor of the city and the governor of Kirovograd: What ideological coloring and forced participation this festival had in the Soviet times. Perhaps you, sirs, have been in such a state and have forgotten that the first of May is a traditional holiday, and one of the most beloved Soviet festivals, it was symbolizing the buzz of spring, the call for change for better and solidarity. It's a celebration of peace and freedom. But only by freedom in Kirovgrad, and it does not smell, for there the laborers in the paws have brought out, the authorities of Kirovgrad have written down, and have promised to pay well. Too cheap not only in Kirovograd, but in the country today everything is being bought and sold. Although the President today claims that Ukraine must join the family of European nations as a social and just state. So the question is, where is the state and that justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, the word has a national deputy, Orzhachowski, to prepare for Stoyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u126	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, voters. Once again, I would like to highlight the effects of the agricultural transformations in the countryside of the destructive Reformers. More and more voters, members of the various levels, including the authorities, demand changes in government agrarian policies. It's not about destroying farms, it's about co-operation, it's about government financial support. This is confirmed by decisions and appeals to the national deputies of the government, the canalchoki, the Cahovian and other councils of the Herson region, where the state of agriculture, the welfare of the population, is considered critical. He's worse than after the war. The so - called reform of the earth and property has been carried out, as it were, without drugs, and continues to be cut alive. Here are just some examples in the Kalanchi region. All the collective farms and organizations that served them have been destroyed. And it's not just a destroyed factory base, it's where animals are cut out, the fields are processed into a compound, the irrigation is destroyed. What will grow up in the south without water? Nothing. The forms, feeding grounds, and technical parks that were destroyed to the ground remained, as they say, antlers and legs. With the breach of legislation, the tax office described and removed the property of enterprises, forgetting that there were debts on the wages of former workers. Ruined manufacturing processes, the collapse of collective farms hit people, lost some 6,000 jobs. Some of the manufacturers went to work day - to - day for a meager salary, not thinking about a future pension. As a result of the destruction of the manufacturing sector, more than twice the number of local budgets has been reduced. Social sites were handed over to rural and rural councils with late robberies. Units of technicians received advice to create community services in the villages. There's no cost for that. Now many of them have no water to drink. The destruction of villages and villages by both government officials and district officials contributed. Regrettably, the latter left their jobs unpunished when they retired from their jobs. Today, I have asked the Attorney General of Ukraine for an immediate study of the results of the reforms in the APC of the area and an evaluation of the activities of former executives. The reason for this was the thoughtless execution of the President’s decrees, the free agricultural and personnel policy, and the efforts to find a landowner in the wake of the Pacific model. Speaking of the area, the Hersonians never saw the recognition of the land that was affected in 2003. I recently asked the Prime Minister about the improper material and technical provision of the spring sowing campaign in Hersonian. And I got a receipt. In the agrarian bloc, the government found no better than what was listed in this year’s budget and did not say a word about real aid. I'd like to ask Mr. Azarov, who you had the right to one of the district's deputies in 2004, to allocate water, gas to the villages through investment, another to Chaplinsky, Grand Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u127	Please, National Deputy Stojko. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u128	Thank you. Ivan Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. Any thinking person in Ukraine can't quietly observe what's happening in our country. Corruption, bribery, has become the norm. Murder, terror, humiliation, intimidation are no longer surprising. Cynicism has captured all of Ukraine. It has already come to the point that crimes are being committed for feigned purposes. And soon, if we remain silent, we will be equal, forgive God, to repeat, to raise our children and grandchildren on their exploits. Yesterday’s television coverage showed a great deal of this. As they say in Russia, we can't reach our minds. It was as if the world had turned upside down, as if people had gone mad. But I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian community not only to the financial transactions of Kabmin and to the abuse of the office of the head of the government of Yanukovic. In the distribution and award of subsidies for cappings with an obvious advantage for so-called areas. I recall that under article 58 of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for this year, Kabmin had to develop a way of granting subsidies to local budgets for investment projects. In doing so, taking into account the proposals made by local executives and representative bodies, the proposals made by national deputies, since the issue of financing gasification, education, health care, and so forth is our common national task. Why, then, is no proposal from the people’s deputies from Ternopolska for investment project grants taken into account? Is it not because they are all representatives of the opposition? That's exactly what it is, even though it looks absurd, it's criminal on the part of the government. I would like to remind current authorities that hundreds of millions of dollars have been paid to pay tax payers in the Ternopil region in the past year before the State Budget of Ukraine. Then why did they do it? Why they were so insolent and brutally looted, only according to Kabmin’s decree of 509, 510 of April 19, 700,000. A bracelet? To compare: The Zacarpathian area, with a population of 80 million people, is managed by a representative of the SDPI(o) for the same projects. A bracelet that is 115 times larger than the one in the heat of the earth. [[At 115, think!]] I am surprised and outraged by the cynical behavior of the Minister of Finance of Azarov and the Minister of Economy of Derkac, who prepared these decrees, because they completely ignored the proposals made by the deputies of the district administration, the district council, which were submitted in accordance with the Budget Act. However, Prime Minister Janukovic’s position was most alert, which, by the way, was so bleached yesterday on all the pervasive channels! But I don't think "Tajdu" is enough. And with the rest, Victor Fedorovich, the judge knows twice that for hiding anything, in this case, the jointly earned funds are being punished or, as they say in these institutions, dropped. As a result, I appeal to the prosecutor to open a criminal case against Viktor Yanukovic and to bring him to justice. So be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u129	Please have the word of the national deputy of Rodionov. Prepare Kadenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u130	Radios, Communist faction. I would like to tell you today about the impression I had after yesterday's parliamentary hearings on the state and development of higher education in Ukraine. First of all, of course, it was a meeting where the best of the best representatives of the higher school and the entire Supreme Council Hall were said to have been unable to accommodate, but most importantly, how many brilliant speeches and deep talk were there. The reasons for the crisis are high school. And that's what took place. Always thinking, why are we so smart, and why are we so poor? What I'm saying is that if we sum up our reasons for higher education, they can be reduced to the next. First, of course, higher education in Soviet times has been recognized worldwide as the highest quality, but we are the only country that has renounced that education while all the developed countries of the world have taken the best that was at the Soviet School. We are the only country to date that has virtually eliminated evening and distance education while evening and distance education are now becoming increasingly important in developed countries. We are the only country that today speaks of access to higher education, but at the same time have introduced such a paid education when there is no such access. At the same time, in developed countries, all Soviet access has long been in place. We are the only country that today proclaims the quality of higher education without funding. And of course, it's amazing, as they say, experience, I think that all the foreign countries are going to download it, and we think we're going to get rich from it. I think that if the funding of higher education is the same as it is now, Ukraine's higher education will come to an end in five to ten years, as they say. Most importantly, perhaps not for millions of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u131	The word is given by the national deputy Kadenuk. Get ready for Domanski. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u132	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In recent years work on the construction of underground and street gas stations in the region has intensified in the Hottin region. Taking into account the inability of the State and local budgets to finance the above - mentioned work, local self - government agencies, executive authorities are undertaking appropriate measures in the territorial communities to co-operate citizens’ own funds for the gasification of the area. In this way, last year, seven villages in the area were gassed, covering 35 kilometers [35 km] of underwater and 148 km] of street gastropods with an estimated cost of 3.8 million dollars. In the coming years, it is planned to gas 15 more populaces and to operate 73 kilometers [73 km] of underwater gas pipelines, which will be planned, more faithfully, with about eight million citizens’ costs involved. Members of the gas industry, virtually all residents of the region, rightly raise the issue of the adoption of appropriate legislative acts that would provide benefits to members of cooperatives in the form of compensation for costs incurred: a reduction in the cost of natural gas consumption and transportation or other forms of compensation. The solution will help to partially compensate the inhabitants of the region for the costs they incurred in the construction of gas stations by spending most of the last savings or by borrowing a loan into the bank. We, members of the Hotin District Council of 24 Czernovetsk Region, ask you to develop a mechanism to solve the problem raised by adopting appropriate legislation and legislation to further the gasification of the district's population at the expense of citizens' own resources. We hope for mutual understanding and support. Approved by the decision of the 10th session of the 24th Call of the Hotina District Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u133	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters! We are silent witnesses when the blood of the Iraqi people is shed, when we have spoken to several representatives, led by the Americans and some States, without any reason, without the right of the UN mandate, they have broken into Iraqi territory as bandits and are fighting against the people of Iraq. But that's not enough for American leaders. They expand and want to expand the dawn of this war, which. took not only Iraqi lives but also other peoples of the Middle East. Already this week, the President of the United States is taking measures, sanctions against the Syrian Arab Republic, against this peace-loving State, which is not taking any part, but is fighting terrorism itself, but an independent State, which will not see its policies to the benefit of Americans, does not like them. We, the members of the Supreme Council, the Communist factions, other factions have expressed strong opposition to the measures taken by the Americans against the Syrian people. We demand that the troops of the Americans, other States, Ukraine be withdrawn from Iraq's long-suffering land. We demand an end to the provocations that will lead to the new aggression of Americans in the Middle East. Attention to the U.S. occupiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-14-m0.u135	Honorable colleagues, all who wanted and had the opportunity to receive the word, benefited. At this morning session, I declare the session closed. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 18. Good luck.
