ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:04]] A total of 423 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Let us welcome him and wish him the same success in his legislative work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups has set out on the schedule of meetings for September 21-24 and the procedure for dealing with individual issues for this period. You have a list of the bills that make up the agenda for this plenary week. So we have every reason to be productive. The factions of our Ukraine and the Yulia block of Timoshenko demand a 30-minute recess. What's the motive? Pinzenik, please, can you tell me what you need a break for, and we'll keep working. Okay. Two factions agree that they will speak and immediately tell us what motives they were trying to take a break from, and we will continue to work. Yeah? Is there no objection? Please, who's going to perform? Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. Please, from the faction of Ukraine and BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u2	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I'm happy to be in the hall today and let me not take up much of your time, but I'd like to say in a series of words that also apply to your fate! For the last two weeks, a number of Ukrainian politicians, journalists, debate what to eat, what to drink in order to survive and not die in this country. Since in a number of cases it's about my honour, my morals, that I'm involved in a series of stories, I'd like to ask your attention for a few minutes. A series of things are going to be said to me improperly because they apply to me, but I'm going to use them exclusively to appeal as facts. Look at my face. Listen to my diction. That's one hundred of the problems I had. Take a good look at this, because it's not a culinary problem, it's not a food problem, it's not a food problem, it's someone trying to treat it. Take your time, dear friends, to judge. I want to ask each of the 450 national deputies who are in this room: in the last 10 or 20 years have you ever seen me drunk? Raise your hands. I'm talking to interviewers, the so-called National Channel "UT-1," "1+1," "Dudericks," other channels: have you ever seen a situation in my life where I didn't control myself? If you have facts, play them on television today. But there are no such facts. And that's why I want to deny to all of you that I'm not an East Kitchen gourmet, West Kitchen, I'm the same length as them, I'm a salad potato as you are, and I'm 47 million people. And what happened to me is not a food problem or a food regime problem, it's a political problem in this country. It's too bad there's no Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich in this room. I wanted to tell him that when you become a real opponent of this regime, you can eat a potato fat like you love it, but remember, once you become a real opponent of this regime, I emphasize that if you're taken away from a bear's dance, a potato diet won't help you. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Calm down! I'm saying it from the billiards, I'm saying it from the billiards! Dear friends! Friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u3	May I have your attention, please? Please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u4	Guys, I'm moving on. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish, you are now experiencing difficult political times, for what your name has been appointed is breaking down: the so - called presidential majority. I mean, once you've become inconvenient with that power and become a small threat, you'll be thrown out like paper. And your fish diet won't help you. [[Applause]] I'm talking to the guys from the President's Office who recommend that every piece of hall write down a hundred grams of vodka. The boys, no matter what you're in that camp, but that camp lives by such principles and morals that you'll be thrown out like Horoshkowski, Volkov, and dozens of others. And even a hundred grams won't help with every piece of the hall. And it's not about the kitchen today -- it's about the Ukrainian political kitchen, where murders are ordered, but the question is: how? Speaking of murders, I'd like to say with great pleasure who the killers are in this country, but before that, there's a little story. You will recall how Vadim Petrovich Gethman was still walking in this room in 1998. Who killed him?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u5	Turn on the microphone, one minute. Please finish. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u6	These are two factions, dear friends. Dear friends! In 1998, Gethman was here. Who killed him? President Kuchma claimed that it was a matter of his honour, that Henprosecutor would answer the question of who killed him. Time is running out. There is no answer. In 1999, Viacheslav Cnerville was present. Who killed him with CAMAZ? It's like we don't know. In 2000, George Gongadze sat on the balcony, conducting a political report. Who cut off his head? It's like we don't know. Although one prosecutor said that the killer had already been found, the other said that his last name started with "K," but there was not enough courage to say a few more letters. Two and a half years ago, Oleg Alexenko was in this room. Who poisoned him? Four weeks ago, we had a live Alec Aslanov who bought a liter of gasoline and burned himself. [[Last loan in his life]] Who killed him? Is the drunkard head of the district administration representing the SDPU(o)? Chi. The head of the collegial? Who killed him?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please don't shout! Give me a chance. Don't yell, please. Give me a chance to finish. And please don't dictate my terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u8	I'm finishing up, guys. Don't ask who's next. Don't ask who's next! Each one of us will be the next! The next one, each one of us! And when the question is how fate passed me, just not the dose, not at the time, and my angels didn't sleep. That's what helped me get out of this world. And let's do two lessons. Lesson number one. I'd very much like friends to get an answer from the law, who did it, and who did it. But you know very well who this killer, the killer, is the power. And never today's Attorney General will answer who killed Gongadze, who killed Gethman, who attacked everyone and many. And so I was surprised to learn when President Kuchma ordered me to open a criminal case on the fact that I was poisoned. I don't believe this assignment, I don't trust this Attorney General. To what Leonid Danilovich, you ask questions those you're not going to answer. We'd better do a political lesson. And the political lesson, dear friends, is that Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk is offering to kneel before the Ukrainian people. Someone needs to stand up, Leonid Makarovich, and it takes a long time for each of the 47 million to forgive. And I'm proposing something else. I appeal to you my dear national deputies! Do a little feat now, today, from this second, at least one centimeter every day, get off your knees, as the agrarian fraction becomes part of the NDP boys, as the "Centre" faction becomes. There are many more healthy, responsible people here, make this little feat for the Ukrainian council, and you will see a democratic country with a free and wealthy man. I would ask you not to forget this second lesson so that it does not catch up with you. Thank you and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u9	Dear National Deputies! At the same time, let us continue our work. Please. At the same time, let us continue our work. The replica. Alexander Frost has the floor, please. Please calm down. Then the Rabbit of Replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to Victor Andriyovich's words, because they were not meant only to worry about the state's order, but also to some degree to discriminate against me. First of all, you train your “pants” from some of your publications into order. Because what I was saying was about me, not Victor Andrievich, I'm stressing again. That's the first one. Next. I was in a similar condition in 1999, when Viktor Andriyovich was a member, if not mistaken, of the Social Protection Fund observed by Alexander Volkov and was directly with the President. I've never told anyone about this. I repeat, what happened happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u11	Give me a chance to finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u12	It can't please anyone. But what I said in response to the journalist’s question about Victor Andryovich’s condition was what I should have said, feeling sorry for him. As to what your newspaper is lying today, as to what Yuri Kostenko is saying that I voted in favour of the release, for example, of Viktor Andriyovich of the post of prime minister, etc., please take care of your correspondents so that they do not become dorks and disinformation society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u13	Yes, Vladimir Hare, please. Just a minute. Rabbit now, I've already announced. We're about to finish the lines, dear colleagues. Hare and Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich, because they were called names, and then we'll be out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Hare, faction of SDPU. Dear colleagues, Reverend Victor Andryovich Once again, I feel sorry for your health and wish you well, but I would like to correct the inaccuracies that you have allowed to be used in your speech, Mr. Wild Head of the Administration of the Barani district of Žitomir, and I am part of the area of Žitomir, where I live never was a member of the SDP, never belongs and will never belong. Moreover, I severely criticized him in my interview, chief of those relationships that led to the self - burning of Alika Aslanov and said that he did not have the moral right to represent authority. And which party does he belong to, please contact the Governor of the Zitomir region, Mr. Rijuk, who represents the People's Agrarian Party and tell you which party he belongs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I just want to make it clear that Vladimir the Hare was speaking, not John the Rabbit, so please calm down Ivan Alexanderovich. Stepan Gavrish. Please. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u16	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u17	Give me a chance, please. People's MP Gudima, please. Please have a seat. Please have a seat. Please have a seat. I'm asking you, Your Honor, calm down. Well, we work democratically, Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, what I have seen and heard on channel 1+1 and today on the rostrum I am obliged to bring my apologies to Viktor Andryovich Yashchenko personally and to say that my personal position, she was connected to circumstances that I have not known, I deeply feel for his state of health and I think that manipulating him is immoral from all sides of whom she does not come out. But, Victor Andryovich, fear the Danites, the gifts they bring, fear those who today approach this rostrum, have no Ukrainian word using Tatar slang to offend the people who build this state. Fear those who use words that are not as high and honest as he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, they exchanged lines. Now let's get a normal job going. One minute, excuse me. Out of procedure, calm down. Three minutes of procedural questions, please. Sign up, three minutes of procedural questions. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Roman Zvaric, please. Anatoly Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. In the session room, the draft decree number 6166 is now being distributed. Subjects of the legislative initiative are Stratovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich and Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich. The decision is to create a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the situation of poisoning a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. This decree requires the inclusion of our sitting day in the order of the day. In view of the medical conclusion of Rudolf Finnerhaust, a clinic in Vienna where the cause of the poisoning of Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk is very clearly established. We need to create such an investigative commission within the framework of parliamentary control. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that you put this question to the vote on inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u21	Anatoly Frost. Anatoly Frost is handing over to Lechchenka. Anatoly Frost is present. Please don't waste your time, Lechchenka Vladimir. And Anatoly Frost is in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u22	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, today would be appropriate to congratulate the inhabitants of ancient Chernigov, who celebrate the 61st anniversary of the liberation of the city from German- Fascist invaders. This was made possible by the courage and heroism of the soldiers of the Red Army, guerrillas and undergrounds, Communists and unpartisans, Communists, and Communists, representatives of all nationalities and nationalities living in the fraternal families of the Soviet Socialist Republics. The feat of the liberators is immortal. Today’s generation of nuns deeply respect the memory of the fallen, bowing low to living veterans. At the commission of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I warmly welcome the Black countrymen with the celebration of liberation! I wish the veterans of the Great Native War a healthy health, happiness, and long years of life. All citizens of Chernigov and the area also wish to win this year's presidential election and to establish in Ukraine our own national Soviet authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u23	Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk, faction of the People’s Agrarian Party
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address all of us. Today, the great festival of religion is a clean second. We're starting a work week that's very responsible. The Budget will be considered this week. And I want all the information that goes on in the Supreme Council to be as objective as possible. We just mentioned the governor of the Gitomir region as a member of the Agrarian Party. But it's in this area that a number of such beautiful things, transformations, new buildings, agrarian sectors are developing in a completely different way. This man is doing a lot for the area. And I go to my colleagues: you should never call names up, just for the sake of political moment, in order to emphasize your superiority in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u25	Thank you. Time's up. Chubarov, since nationality has been affected here, has a word for it, please. All right, all right, respectable colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u26	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This isn't the first time in this room, and this isn't the first time I've talked about it. I turn to my distinguished colleagues: I ask you very much not to put any language, religion, customs above or below each other. Do not try to find reasons to justify your immoral position, to presume for xenophobic assertions. I'm talking to my colleague Gavrish, who here has done a very non-tolerant parallel between languages that seem to serve such dirty thoughts, and others seem to be higher than that. Don't let that happen. And here too we have to apologize for the poor claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! We exchanged information about the organization of our work. Please note, Your Honor, at the Conciliation Council meeting, that the question of the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of poisoning of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. The Conciliation Council did not make a decision on this matter. So the document is distributed, the insistence is factions, so we need to vote for inclusion in the agenda, and then we need to look at it essentially. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council decision 6166, on the interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the situation of poisoning a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Victor Yushchenk, please vote. [[10:26:04]] For 370. Questions are included in the agenda. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "Regions of Ukraine" - 6, the Communist faction - 55, the Communist faction - 39, the Deminitatives and the People's Government - 28, the Labour Ukraine - 28, the People's Agrarian - 18, the SPI - 20, the Block of Timoshenko - 19, the Union - 16, the NDP, the Industrialists - 16, the Centre - 14, the Non-Frakation - 14. Have you been given any warnings about the contents of this document? One minute, Rudzkowski, microphone. Is it? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u28	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my faction, I express my sympathy and personally to Viktor Andriyovich. We believe that it is unacceptable to use chemicals during election campaigns. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz in the last, last presidential election passed through the same situation, and was poisoned, and was in "Feofania" under the supervision of, as it were, leading doctors. So it was the right thing to do: not treat us. Unfortunately, our system is built in such a way that it poisons those who are favorites. We believe that it is necessary to create a commission to investigate and, after the election, to punish those who are organizing the poisoning in Ukraine of presidential candidates who are giving commands to cut off the heads of journalists who are giving commands to do with democratic ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, what are some other warnings? One minute, I'll take a look. Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u30	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, the faction fully supports the establishment of this commission, yet it has one suggestion that, in addition to the representative of the Attorney General’s Office, a representative of the Ministry of Health should be included on the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u31	Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will put to the vote a draft ruling as a whole, adding to the fifth paragraph, "Involve the temporary investigation commission of the representative of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine." Is there no objection? With this addition, the clarification proposed by Igor Shurma, I put to the vote for adoption as a whole the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decree: “On the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the situation of poisoning the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, the national deputy of Ukraine Victor Yushchenka”. [[Registration number 6166]] Please vote. [[10:29:31]] For 425 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! A draft Ordinance on Ukrainian Government Day in October 2004 on the Government's compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukraine's laws on the proper level and timely payment of wages is being announced. Reporter Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko as the author of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think it would be unnecessary for this room to talk about how relevant the question is to bring our faction and its leader, Peter Simonenko, into the agenda. This is about problems and the right level, and the timely payment of wages. Let us just say that there have been some positive developments in this issue lately, but the problem remains urgent and acute. We can't say that we're satisfied with the set minimum wage level, which is lower than the set low security limit, which in itself is a nonsensus. Let's just think about how legislators can legislate, excuse me for tautology, a situation where it's recommended that people live on a salary that doesn't provide for normal survival anymore. Next. We can't go past the fact that our government today unfortunately doesn't have enough active position to liquidate its pay-out debt. I point out that in the last statistical collections of our independent Ukraine, such a new statistical category — economically inactive enterprises — has emerged. What is behind this? This is followed by hundreds of, thousands of enterprises that have been cut off as a result of low economic and socio-economic policies of executive power, and today people have been hanged. The state, the enterprises in particular, owe them debts. Debts are now accounted for in 378 million dollars of unpaid wages, which is worthless, that is, it has no host, it has debts, people with no wages have been sitting for years, and it has never been paid. And our government has found nothing better than to invent this category of "economically inactive enterprises." So what do we do next? Unfortunately, there is no solution to this problem in the 2005 budget. Our faction and a group of comrades led by Peter Simonenko feel that the issue remains both urgent and relevant today. I would like to address all the national MPs, because we all have voters, we all have budget approvals per article, and I very much hope that all of us, regardless of party membership, will vote in favour of this government day decision. With regard to the specific time frame, the profile committee suggests that the deadline be slightly extended. I think that, at the will of the people's deputies, this question can be solved positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u33	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Working with the participation of officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ukrainian trade unions considered the proposed draft decision by the Ukrainian national deputies Simonenko, Gurenko and Matvijevo on the observance of the Ukrainian Government's Day "On the state of implementation by the government of the requirements of the Constitution and the Ukrainian laws on the proper level and timely payment of wages and support such a proposal, supports such a decision. The point is that you and I, together with today's government, have identified a major problem, a major link in the social policy agenda of our country. This is an increase in the value of the national labour force -- the highest value of Ukraine. You've seen how difficult it is in our society today to make one of the tragic mistakes of the early 1990s. I'm talking about declaring and implementing a cheap labor model. For no one's secret, we have a lot of examples from the region that our metallurgy, the main sector that gives GDP growth, machine-building, has good competitive capabilities today, thanks to antisocial measures, namely low-cost labor. In the structure of self-sustainability, products dominate, as do the dominant, energy-borne, bank credit, taxes, depreciation. So we only have the opportunity with you through the days of the government and through the establishment of incentives for the government to deal with wage issues through the establishment of a government standard, a minimum wage. The fact is that low wages in industry threaten to degrade the most skilled structures of the national labor force. You know, there is a risk of losing unique technological operations in individual industrial enterprises. The pay system's broken, the motivation's lost. Second, low wages are a lot of growth. Plato-powered demand. The rich are not carriers of mass demand. And you'll be told by anyone in the county that our pensioners, the people of the older generation today, are bringing back what they bought during the Soviet Union. Third, the low cost of labor is the brake around technological progress. And the high cost of the labor force is a resource to raise funds, it's the sustainability of the budget. Given that the preparation of this extremely complex, socio-economic, political issue takes time, we and the drafters of the bill have asked, I hope that their faction will support, other factions have been called upon to support this bill and to appoint a government day on November 9th, so that the date can be set for the government of Minstat, the trade unions to prepare themselves for a substantive conversation, and we can prepare a balanced decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u35	Please, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko's microphone. You agree with the author. Turn on the microphone, please. Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Stanislav Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to encourage you to support the proposal made by the Dry Deputy, as a matter of fact, to spend the day. We need it, we need to discuss these sensitive issues openly, and we need to identify ourselves before the voters, and I support, on behalf of the government's drafters, the transfer of the Government's Day to November 9, 2004 as it is said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u37	Please, Samuel, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u38	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and honourable colleagues, in support of the Dry One's proposal, I just want to propose: we will have a vote tomorrow, on the Government's Day in November of the month of greeting, we will gladly move to October of the month, giving way to this decision. Please support everyone and count tomorrow's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u39	Okay, I think when you report from this project, suggest you move it for the October month. It's not like that. Manchulenka, please microphone. Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u40	Gregory Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that the government must have some time to report on why there is so much debt at the moment upon payment of the salary. But this does not mean that he needs to be given two months to tell us why this debt has arisen and what it takes to settle this debt. I think it's quite a month to prepare the government to tell us why it's so good at managing it, why it's this debt, and what it's going to do to account for it. Then it turns out that for almost two months we'll give him training, and then whoever knows him may change the situation, and they won't listen to anyone. So I insist that this not be prolonged for too long, but by the end of October, that the government raise awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u42	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have all been chosen by the people, and the main issue that we must address in the legislative body is the adoption of such laws so that citizens can live better and more cheerfully. Why spend Government Day in general if the executive is ignoring it? In the past, there were no foreign and internal ministers, heads of the Security Service, the State Tax Administration, and other government officials. According to part 2 of paragraph 10 of the Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council, the government's representatives for at least one hour have answered all the questions. Then he answers, substantiates, and the Prime Minister along with the Head. I understand that the Prime Minister is so busy with his own electoral campaign that he does not want to carry out his duties. But we have to spend this day in October. Let him answer the presidential election. Because what's going on on TV.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, we're out of communication. Now, if you'll have your attention. I'm going to put to the vote first a proposal that's agreed with both the profile committee and the authors of the draft decision. The proposal for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Day of the Government of Ukraine in November 2004" is put to the vote with the following wording: to hold on 9 November 2004 in the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Day of Government of Ukraine with the agenda - on the state of compliance by the government with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine's laws on the proper level and timely payment of wages. This is registration number 5765. Please vote. [[10:41:41]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Ordinance on Ukrainian Government Day was announced in October 2004 on compliance with the requirements of agricultural legislation and the retention of green plantings in Ukrainian populated areas. Registration number 5700. Rudenko Hennady Borisovich is head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the day of the government on this issue is relevant. This issue is of social interest and is caused by numerous complaints from the public about the mass destruction of green plants in cities and other populated areas of Ukraine. In particular, serious concerns arise during the decommissioning of land for new construction, reconstruction, and improper logging along highways. Local government executives and their respective structural units in many cases fail to exercise proper control over the state of operation and maintenance of green farms. Green plantings have sometimes become garbage dumps, and they are at the end of an unsatisfactory state of sanitation. The main purpose of the government's Day on the issue is to preserve existing and create new green plants, ensure proper care, rational use of natural landscapes of cities and suburban areas, structure and greening of streets, playgrounds, public areas, housing, highways and increased responsibility for the enforcement of legislation in this area. The adoption of the Supreme Council’s decree and the issue mentioned do not require additional financial costs. The issue is supported by the Scientific and Experimental Administration of the Supreme Council and our entire committee. I'm asking the people's deputies to support and take a decision on this issue with editorial details of paragraph 1 on the name of the agenda and the amendment to paragraph 2 on the term of submission instead of September 20, because we have a project delayed, the consideration of it, so instead of September 20, write it down on October 1st. In view of the somewhat late introduction of the matter to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u45	Please. We have both a committee and a reporter in one person, so we're going to define ourselves. I put to the vote a draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in October 2004 on compliance with the requirements of legislation for the maintenance of land in Ukrainian settlements, registration number 5700. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:44:50]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. There's a draft law on the approval of living minimum for 2005. Registration number 6332. Report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Housing Minimum (2005) Act was drafted to implement article 4 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act in connection with the preparation of the Ukrainian State Budget. You know that article 4 stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to introduce a draft Ukrainian law on the approval of the subsistence minimum for the following year before the introduction and consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2005. It's a very important law, because the minimum of living is a social standard that defines social guarantees, such as minimum wage, pension, social assistance, social benefits, subsidies and so on. The bill proposes to set the living minimum for 2005 per person for a month of 382 bracelets. Children under six years of age - 335 bracelets, children between six and 18 years of age - 422 bracelets, for working persons living at least is proposed to set the amount of 409 bracelets, for people who have lost their jobs - 300 bracelets. What I want to say in this case is that, on average, per person's living minimum is proposed in 2005 to increase by 19 dollars 80 copies compared to 2004. The subsistence minimum for major social and demographic groups is calculated in a normative way, based on food sets, non-food products, and services. This set of services and methods, they're not a product of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a document that is based on a tripartite basis, a working group that includes government representatives, professional associations, and employers. So these indicators, they work on the principles of social partnership and are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The calculation of the cost of living minimums was made on the basis of the prices of June of the current year. You know, I've been reporting this draft of the Ukrainian Law for the third year, and we've taken the following approach: we're going to pick a month in the current year, where the consumer price index has been the biggest increase, and it's based on all food prices, non-food goods and services. Prices are collected from the State Statistical Committee. It also counts. The projected inflation index for 2004 is 107 per cent and 2005 is 105.5 per cent. We're taking this data from the Ministry of Economics. At present, the State, taking into account financial opportunities, is gradually ensuring that minimum social guarantees are reached to a minimum of living. This is about pension payments, this is about the minimum wage. You know that the general agreement, signed by the owners and professional associations, provides for a step-by-step approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum of living, and informs you that today, at a meeting of the government committee, the relevant bill and the Cabinet of Ministers will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under these conditions, article 2 of the draft law provides for the size of State social guarantees for 2005 which are marked by the minimum of living: the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act, as well as the legal and regulatory acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Given the social importance of this bill and that it will first enable Ukrainian citizens to increase their social benefits and to improve the quality of life and the well-being of families, I ask the Ukrainian people's deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u47	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Please point to the board. Five minutes. Yavorowski. After him, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. Minister! Today, we will make the Ukrainian people happy if we vote for your proposal for 20 dollars. You know how he gallops now and how the bracelet falls compared to the dollar. So please tell me if you know the bill prepared by our leader Victor Yushchenk, which foresees a significant increase in minimum wage, at least normal. Do you know that? And if you work in such a generous government, why don't you agree to the option that Victor Yushchenko offers?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u49	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would ask, first of all, the initiators of the bill to be law-abiding, because the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act and article 4 clearly and clearly regulates that this bill is the exclusive right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, the bill introduces the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but is calculated at a minimum of living according to the approved method of the scientific and expert council, which is based on a tripartite basis. In addition, you know that the Ukrainian Life Minimum Act states that this method is approved once every five years. Given that it was approved in 2000, in 2005, that is, next year we're going to bring together a group, on a tripartite basis it's already started to work. If you have suggestions about the method of calculating the ingredients of the subsistence minimum, i.e. filling the consumer basket with food, non-food, and services, we are ready to consider them. But all of this is done without, let's say, subjective factors based on data at the price of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u50	Korsakov, behind him Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u51	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich! Election District 50, "Ukraine," Korsakov. For what purpose is the subsistence minimum approved if the level of social security does not reach this size?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u52	Yes, the subsistence minimum is approved to show the quantity, the valuable characteristics of the minimum range of food, services, and non-food products. In addition, the subsistence minimum, as I said before, is a basic social standard. On the basis of this, subsidies are provided by the Department of Labour and Social Protection. So if we leave the living minimum at the 2004 level and we don't raise it in 2005, there's going to be tens of thousands of families who, because of the non-admission of this law, will lose their right to subsidies, to benefits, to social assistance, to social benefits. Furthermore, we know that it is necessary for the government, together with the Ukrainian National Deputies, to finally make such conditions that we meet the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Because the minimum social guarantees, they have to be provided by the state at the minimum of living. That's why we need to raise the minimum of living and do everything we can to ensure that both the minimum pensions and the minimum wage, and the social assistance and the social benefits are at a minimum of living. This is in the interests of the people and I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u53	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u54	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, there are many thoughts today that some of the legislative initiatives aimed at social protection of the population and, above all, the disadvantaged are so populist. If they're in opposition, they say that, and as they get to, we'll talk, most of them think that it's okay, it's okay. And I have a question. Do you not consider it appropriate to withdraw this contradiction, the election of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, each year, so that each party has the opportunity to take such initiatives every year and report to the people of Ukraine on how they care for their welfare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I cannot interfere with this process because it is the exclusive right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, the executive authority will implement these bills. And as far as populism is concerned, you know, I wouldn't talk about populism or anything. When it comes to our disadvantaged people getting money for which they can buy food, buy clothes, provide at least their children. So, let's give the country's distinguished national deputies, where there's an increase in the population's monetary income, let's not talk about populism. God forbid we're going to do this populism with you every day, and make sure that people get better every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Correspondent of the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Hara Vasil Geogievich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u57	Respectable colleagues. The bill is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with article 4 of the Housing Minimum Act and the Budget Code in connection with the consideration of the State budget for 2005. You know very well that the subsistence minimum is determined by the regulatory method, per month per person. The calculation of product selection is made by the Ministry of Economics on the rules of physiological need, and the calculation of non-food products is made by the Ministry of Economy. Calculations for the recruitment of housing, transport, housing, communications, cultural, education, health and other services - relevant ministries. The subsistence minimum is used for an overall assessment of living standards in Ukraine, which is the basis for the implementation of social policies and the development of individual public programmes. The establishment of minimum wage and minimum pension by age, the determination of social assistance, assistance to families with children, unemployment assistance, as well as scholarships, the determination of the right to social benefits, the establishment of an unfettered minimum of income for citizens and finally the formation of the State budget for Ukraine and local budgets. All of us sitting in this room understand that very well. We understand that living minimum. This is the main social norm of our State, which has a real impact on raising the standard of living of the population. Those who wish to improve the lives of the citizens of the country, rather than to speak, are simply under an obligation to support the bill. But given last year's history with a delayed subsistence minimum, with what we received in a timely manner, and many socially vulnerable categories of people who are very late received an increase in social benefits in two or three months. I'll give you my own opinion on this. Only hypocrites, people with double standards, may not vote in favour of the bill, blubbering the substance of the issue with demagogies and an empty chat about the haphazard numbers of the subsistence minimum, offering such amounts as will continue to be insurmountable to our budget after 10 years. Our committee considered the bill and unanimously decided to recommend it as a whole. And the last. Some who are sitting in the hall are, of course, trying to do the wrong thing, in fact, the perniciousness of the Government of Yanukovic. But the people of our country, the samplers, must know that it is not a sin for the Government now in force, but a scourge for the entire people. I therefore ask that the bill be supported and that the results of the vote be published in the Voice of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Are there any questions? Yes. Please sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Tomenko, behind him, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, dear reporter. You're the one who was talking about political temptations. I'm analyzing the statistics and statements of our government officials. I don't understand. We have reserves of billions of money for September and October to increase pensions, to pay off the Olympics, to donate to cities, to villages, and there is no money on basics for the next fiscal year. When you analyze the budget, and when you say that the maximum cost of living can be increased by 20 dollars. And who's in favour of that being more is the populace. And then what does this government, as a government of Santa Claus, distribute into September-Yellow billions, and it can't increase basic things by a more worthy amount? So I don't understand the logic of this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I, and in the last year's review of the Housing Minimum Act and today I strongly recommend to all those who have not yet read, please read the Living Minimum Act. It is not determined by the will of the Government or by the wishes of the deputies. It is calculated by the normative method. It's a photograph. This photo can't be discussed today - little or much? It was so decided. Another point is that, unfortunately, no pension, salary, scholarship and other social benefits are reaching a minimum of living today. Thus, subjective wage indicators do not reach the objective minimum set by the Constitution and the law. Today, we can say that individual benefits do not correspond to the subsistence minimum. But the Janukovič Government in the second year in a row is investing such resources in the State budget that will enable us to resolve the enormous issues that have not been resolved for us to extend the entire independence of our State. Once again, the subsistence minimum is an objective indicator. We cannot interfere with our subjective desires.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u61	Please, Stoyan, follow him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u62	Alexander Stoyan is head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Vasil Georgievicz, of course, I call for support for this standard because it is consistent on both the committee and on a tripartite basis. But I have this question, and I wanted to ask the minister of employment, and unfortunately there was no way. Mikailo Mikolaiovich did not say what would be the minimum wage for 2005? And what percentage of the minimum wage is going to be from the minimum wage? That's the first question. And the second. Why are you delaying your submission to the Supreme Council, which is in agreement with the members of the Act on Approaching? [[Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, this is a question for you.]] A step-by-step approximation of the minimum wage to the subsistence minimum? Wasn't that your point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u63	With regard to the first question, the distinguished Alexander Nikolaevich, well, the people's deputies know that this has been discussed on several occasions and from the Prime Minister's mouth and in the draft that we received with you, the 2005 budget, the minimum wage from 1 January will be set at 262 bracelets. With a subsequent phased increase. With regard to the second question, I support you, you know our committee has practically resolved these issues over the past year and has encouraged the Cabinet of Ministers to present such a timetable for the approximation of minimum wage and subsistence minimum. As far as I am aware, it was promised at the beginning of the sixth session that we would introduce, and we will consider tomorrow at the committee meeting, including why the Ministry has not yet made legislative proposals to bring the minimum wage into line with the subsistence minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u64	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u65	Thank you. The Communist faction of Cibenko. Dear co-reporter, you know as well as I do that the real living minimum, especially for non-working people, should be much higher. I say, in particular, that it should be at least 500 dollars. The candidate for President of Ukraine, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka, has real calculations of this figure to 792 dollars. And the question is, please tell me, when the committee you're leading with the government will make proposals on a new method of calculating the subsistence minimum, because we're stuck when we come in and talk about the number we always come across when the committee and the ministry introduce a new method of recalculating this figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u66	Dear Nikolai Stepanović, with regard to the first question, I would like to say once again, yes, we can complain about the law adopted by the Supreme Council, yes, we can complain that a very short list of foods that are defined in this law in all categories, depending on age. Let us say, in Europe, to which we seek a much broader list. But we also understand that this list can also be expanded to infinity, and we will not provide financial resources in the State. With regard to the second issue in 2005, we have already discussed this subject on the Committee, and we were told by the mouth of Deputy First Soldier, Minister of Social Policy and Labour, which will be introduced in the first quarter of 2005, not by the Ministry, but by representatives of the working group, which will be composed of representatives of Ukrainian trade unions, employers and the State party. That is, the social partners will prepare these proposals and, in fact, on their behalf, the Cabinet of Ministers will make proposals in the first quarter of 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u67	Vasil Georgievich, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have 23 minutes to discuss. Since you insisted that the factions first come from the factions, I will first be on the list of those who signed up for the performances to invite me to the tribune of factions. Shurma Igor Mihajlovich, from the faction, please, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Stanislav Nikolaynka. The storm's refusing, isn't it? Stanislaw Nikolayenko of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, a faction. Prepare Victor Pinzenic. Nikolainko gives the floor to Vernigori. Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party. Please. As long as Leonid Vernigore is coming, I'll make an announcement. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Temporary Special Commission for which we have just voted, Vladimir Sovkovic proposes to meet with representatives of factions, members of the Temporary Investigation Commission, to investigate the situation of the poisoning of national deputy Victor Yushchenk at 12 o’clock on the third floor of the tower. To the execution, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u68	Honorable National MPs. Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine We've just heard the report of Labour Minister Michael Papiev and the committee's report. What I'd like to draw your attention to. First of all, all the bills and laws that we pass on our minimum wage, or minimum wage, or minimum wage, they remain with us only on paper at the time of adoption of these laws and at the time of adoption of the budget. You have to make sure that all year long the minimum wage and subsistence minimum payments go hand-in-hand to the Prime Minister's office. For example, a week ago, when you and I adopted a bill to raise pensions to the minimum of living for the participants of the Great National War, on the second day, the government hand-in-hand proposes to pay up to the minimum of living, say 152 bracelets. Again, is it that, the law of Ukraine on the establishment of pensions, or is it just another tax and a supplement from the budget, which is unknown to whom is planned and approved? The other one. Today, three days ago in the market, all prices increased by one and a half times just because of what they promised to raise a living minimum or a pension. You can imagine what it's like. Is it going to work when we reconfirm the increase even in theory of the minimum of living? So today, given prices in the market and not just food, but a sharp increase in prices for everything, I propose not to take on such a minimum of living today, which is totally not in line with the real subsistence minimum of our people. Today, I propose to return to the committee for two days in view of the government’s announcement of a new subsistence allowance rather than a minimum. Return to the committee for further work with a view to making calculations at new prices, agree between partners who will participate in the formation of this value and only then move to the Supreme Council Hall. This can be done on Thursday. So I would like to support my proposal not to approve the government's offer of a minimum of living by Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u69	Yes, thank you. Victor Pinzenik of the faction "Our Ukraine", to prepare Valery Konovaluk of the "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u70	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! The government of Viktor Yanukovich is constantly having serious problems with arithmetic. So he'll forget to include 10 billion dollars in the budget, hiding them from society, so he'll promise retirees to raise their pension to a minimum of living, forgetting a little bit. Dear National Deputies! You have a draft budget for next year. In this document you will find no funds for this increase in pensions, either with a magnifying glass or without a magnifying glass. Although our colleagues in the faction of "Our Ukraine" have not once claimed that the budget is not only to raise pensions, but to raise salaries in the budget area. It's not an exception to arithmetical exclamation, and it's a draft of the Lifetime Minimum Act. And let's focus on the numbers. We heard a speech by the head of the Committee on Social Policy about some sort of standard. The government raises the subsistence minimum by 5.5 percent, but next year’s inflation is planned by the government at 7 percent. Over the four months of this year, the government's inflation forecast again is 5 percent -- about 13 percent of the price rise. One second. Take the statistics you've been given, it's not true. In July it was written that prices had fallen. In Ukraine they did not fall. In August it is said that prices fell, and in Ukraine they did not fall. One second. With the approval of the subsistence minimum for this year, the government raised it by 5.8 percent compared to 2002. Although prices rose by 8 percent in 2003. Third moment. The government tries to keep the subsistence minimum at the level of prehistoric materialism. Ukraine’s economy is growing in the fifth year. In five years, it grew by 50 percent. Therefore, the standards of living minimum should not be left unchanged. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine," Victor Yushchenko and I introduced a bill that unfortunately didn't register, about that. that the subsistence minimum should be set to 423 bracelets, not 382 bracelets. What does our figure include? It takes into account the non-calculated share of inflation when the subsistence minimum is confirmed for this year. Secondly, it takes into account real inflation over this year and half the rate of economic growth of the government that is planned for next year. Ladies and gentlemen, we insist that the draft law be voted upon only in the first reading. On the second reading, a refinement was made because there is a subversion of arithmetic. And the cost of living is under 40 dollars, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u71	Valérie Konovaluk. It's a faction of Ukraine. Get ready right away from the Union MP group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u72	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The minimum of living is a determining factor for many other social protection tools used by the State. Its size determines many other dimensions of social guarantees. In view of this, there is no doubt that the timely adoption of the law on subsistence for the next year is of great importance. What's more, Thursday we'll be discussing the 2005 draft budget with you. The minimum of living should be calculated on the basis of an analysis of the country's main economic indicators and approved as far as possible before the start of the budget process, we all understand that. We really understand that the computational value should not only provide compensation, indexation for inflation, but change quality. So, dear fellows, we can argue long enough on this issue of 382 bracelets or not, we need to justify other measures in order to make the budget state, and there we determine the level of provision of the subsistence minimum, which is probably 90 bracelets for low-income families and so on. Therefore, it is important for us to ensure that social benefits are approved, that other social standards move not only from the point of view of the minimum of living, but also that we increase the level of security, so the faction of the region of Ukraine calls for everyone to support this draft law in order for us to start considering and adopting the state budget in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u73	Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. From the Union’s MP. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the issue of subsistence minimum is determined by the basic law, which is referred to as the subsistence minimum, which was adopted in the 99th year. This is one thesis, which is that we have to adopt this rule and therefore this rule must exist, and this is the second idea that I want to focus your attention, respected colleagues, on what needs to be done before the budget is adopted. Because last year, if you and I had adopted a subsistence minimum for the current year of 2004 only on 27 May, it was accordingly possible that half a year people who should receive all kinds of social benefits on behalf of the State would receive these payments according to the standards that existed for 2003. Based on this logic, this year we must make it civilized before the adoption of the budget to approve the subsistence minimum, taking into account all costs, all that should be included in the 2005 budget for social benefits. Therefore, today, when it is said that we should accept a minimum of living or should we not? I can tell you with all the responsibility you have to. Because until the adoption of the general budget, we must understand clearly how much the State must pay the population.? In particular, minimum wages, minimum pensions, social security payments by the State in social insurance will be calculated from this indicator. Such as child support, child support for single mothers, and funeral care. This indicator depends on housing subsidies, population income indexation, social tax benefits for individuals and much more. In all the conversations, the minimum life expectancy is high or small, but it has grown by almost 20 bracelets compared to last year. Accordingly, an additional category of people, which can be estimated at hundreds of thousands, will be able to receive social benefits on behalf of the State on the basis of a new subsistence minimum. Therefore, deeply convinced, respected colleagues, we must accept this minimum of living if we really want to make our population at least a little but easier. If we have any other plans, then we can no doubt argue with you here again until 27 May next year, or perhaps later. But it won't do people any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u75	Bogdan Hubsky, from the Democratic Initiatives and People's Authority. Prepare Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The question of establishing and providing a real subsistence minimum is a matter of the ethics and even morality of the state. After all, without society fully providing for the life needs of a Ukrainian citizen, it is not possible to talk about social partnership in our country today. The bill proposes to approve the subsistence minimum at a higher level. Of course, the efforts of the government, during which social pay increases, cannot be overlooked. We need to mention the Ukrainian Act on Living Minimum, which has been in existence since 1999. And according to this law, minimum wages, pensions, social assistance should be implemented, based on the minimum wage. So it's a very important amount, and all social benefits have to be based on it. We know today that the socio-economic development of the country has evolved into a new principle of different dynamics, and the main engine has become the internal market. And that is why the well-being of our citizens, including pensioners, must be greatly increased. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the calculation mechanism for the minimum of living, which is planned to be set to 382 bracelets. Unless a standard of 53 kg of meat per working person per year can be considered acceptable, at the same time that a society’s recognized need is 80 kg. Some standards are also surprising, for example, a man’s tie should be purchased once every 20 years, and a suit should be purchased once every 10 years! But the minimum of living, I remind you, should ensure that the body functions normally and preserves its health, as well as the basic social and cultural needs of the individual. As a result of clearly low standards of consumption, the calculated minimum cost of living is far from satisfying the basic needs of a person. The method of calculation, it doesn't respond to modern needs, it needs to be changed, because today it's going to cause a really skeptical smile in our citizens. The second example that we saw from the budget is that the budget for the next year is going to increase by more than 30 percent accordingly. And the minimum minimum for living is only planned to increase by 5.5 percent. So there's an imbalance of pace and we think it's desirable that these growth rates be synchronized and maybe also raise by 30 percent of the cost of living. That's why we insisted that the government and the relevant services make changes to the relevant normative documents that account for the minimum of living, and then make sure that the more real life is used for the calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u77	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich from the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Prepare Petra Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u78	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko Ladies and gentlemen, the government is once again proposing that we confirm the minimum of living, which is only 5.5 percent higher than the previous one. The table presented to us along with the bill is an index of consumer prices since July 2004. It is estimated that in December 2005 prices will be lower than one and a half percent in December of this year. Last year it was 362,23 pcs minimum of living. For 2005, the government is planning 382 bracelets. An increase in the cost of living by 5.5 percent means that the standard of living of citizens will not rise because the price rise will be lower than 5.5 percent, even by much more than we know and know these numbers. The Ministry of Economics predicts that in December 2005 consumer prices will be lower than prices this year by one and a half percent, food prices in the gastronomy, market prices are quite different. At least the fat is from 12 bracelets to 20 bracelets and all the other foods. With the wages that have the population, the minimum wage of 382 bracelets, and that sum are also determined by other state social guarantees, it means that the government is not going to improve the material status of our citizens. The size of the subsistence minimum depends on the budget, as shown in the 2005 government bill, the budget will be built on the official part of the economy and will not touch, hardly affect the shadow economy. The budget proposes to reduce the shadow economy by just 3 percent. And here is the essence of the difference between the government's budget policy of Yanukovic and the budgetary policy of the opposition, particularly the faction of Yulia Timoshenko and the Ukrainian-Republic Party of Sobor. We demand the abolition of tax benefits that the Bush authorities have granted to the oligarchs and directing these funds to the State Budget. I will remind the audience that more than a thousand companies have been exempt from tax in whole or in part. To eliminate the shadow economy and translate it into open financial accounts means to increase the state budget by about half. This means that both life’s minimum, pensions, and wages can also be increased roughly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u79	Lejko Grigorovich, thank you, time's up. Thank you, Leveko Grigorovitch. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko of the Communist faction. Get ready for Puzakov. We'll go through with the National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I have as a Communist MP, as in the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, who is looking after the problems of the most disadvantaged part of our society, the mass of problems, the mass of claims before the version of the law presented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which is presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In particular, I can't agree with the approach that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is looking at the minimum of living, you know, as a shining peak to go to for a long time as a goal to go to. And it's actually coming from the so-called guaranteed subsistence minimum, which is going around 100 dollars, a little bit more or a little less. I don't think that can happen. That's the first one. Secondly, I have a lot of claims to specific figures that are named in the draft law today. In particular, as I lead the Committees on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, I'm going to illustrate it at the border for non-working people. It's set up by this bill at 300 bucks. As head of the committee, I think this should be the next, right next, 2005 as a minimum, 300 dollars, at least, 500 dollars, instead of the Cabinet of Ministers. Let me just say that the candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, has written in his electoral program real mechanisms that will allow this living minimum to be set at 792 bracelets in the near future. And this program is absolutely real, and it needs to be implemented. As for the particular situation in which the faction is located today. In determining our position on the vote, we were faced with a choice -- or a bruise in our hand in the form of 20-30-40 bracelets of raising the subsistence minimum, or that ephemeral crane in the sky. So the faction of Communists, insisting on the need for changes in methodology, will today support at least the first reading of the project presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u81	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The minimum of living in any country is set for a general assessment of the level of living in the state and for setting the size of state social guarantees. But how can you do that in Ukraine, where life is a payment for water, for help? Even for a consultation, you have to pay. In other words, the whole of life is a total payoff. And you can't see any enlightenment. And prices are going up. You can't even buy two envelopes for a bracelet. So what's the cost of living? Of course, it has to be determined by coming from the prices that came together in the last months and projected inflation indexes by the end of the 4th and 5th years. But the proposed subsistence minimum does not meet today’s criteria, and when the authorities promise to make a living minimum payment, it can be seen that there is money. But why should someone promise to put the money to sleep as a millet, distribute it before the elections? People don't need these one-time benefits, they need them guaranteed by the legislative authorities, pensions, wages, and living minimum. Today’s subsistence minimum will prevent you from improving your life. As the people were in defense of survival, so will they. Only the leader of the communists, candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, who came to power for the next five years will be able to solve the country's first priority problems of socio-economic development, to consolidate society around the real idea of building a social state to create more than one million jobs, to raise the average wage by 2.5 times to 1,500 thousand, and at least by 3 times to 792 dollars, to increase the average pension to a minimum wage, to a minimum minimum wage, to a minimum wage, to a minimum wage, to unemployment assistance, to single mothers, to multi-child families, to maximize monthly payments for utility services and to a quarter salary will be set at less than 10 percent of the income of the family, to completely eliminate unemployment. So on behalf of the Communists, I address all honest people. Vote on October 31st for your own good, for your honor and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u83	The question, your honor, has been discussed. May I have your attention, please? First. I would like to highlight before I go to the vote. According to the Constitution, the Code of Budgets, and the Law on Housing Minimum, the subject of the legislative initiative on this issue is exclusively the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The other one. The adoption of such a law, or establishment of a subsistence minimum, should prejudge the budget for the following year. I'd like to take that into account. And the third. We need to take it both as a basis and as a whole, because we can't make any additions and clarifications, because this is once again the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm going according to the Rules. So, your honors, I'd like your attention. I'm voting for a profile committee proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Check in with the procedure, three minutes. Change the vote. Three minutes, please sign in. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Please pass the word to Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u85	Peter Prashenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that the category of living minimum given by the government is propaganda. Since the Government's State Budget Act introduces a new category - the “restrictive minimum wage limit”. And in the 2005 budget, this government only paid 85 dollars. That's the first one. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are absolutely right, the subject of the legislative initiative on subsistence may be solely a government, but no one has denied the rights of the subject of the legislative initiative in preparing the project for the second reading requires the clarification of the indicators and calculations. So the faction of "Our Ukraine" will only support this bill in the first reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u87	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u88	Fucking Communist faction. I'm pointing out to the MPs that this bill needs to be supported in the first reading and that a faction of Communists will vote. But the comments made by our faction companions must be taken into account. And when considering the 2005 draft budget, take into account the social dimensions of its development. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u89	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u90	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u91	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, the Faction of the SPE.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u92	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Hersonic. Socialists have always advocated the material well - being of our Ukrainian people, and this can be seen in the election program by Alexander Alexander Moroz. Today, we are concerned about the inflationary processes that began in Ukraine because of the fact that money was simply printed and thrown into the market by pensioners and so on. So first of all, we insist that this figure be at least twice the minimum cost of living. And secondly, so that the participants in the Great Homeland War, veterans, retirees don't divide them into categories four, but compare them to at least 800 dollars. And that's why we're proposing to vote only for this number, not vote for what the government is proposing. That doesn't solve the problem because of the depreciation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u93	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u94	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, honourable colleagues, the reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we'll make a big mistake if we vote today both in the first reading and in general. We all understand that this is now going to be the government's seasonal bribe to the Ukrainian people, very seasonal and very short-term, and I would still suggest that we vote in the first reading, take into account the reasoning and the main arguments, the economic arguments of the people's deputies, and only then vote in the second reading. Because if we vote right now, you can imagine what drums will tomorrow be for all of Ukraine, how the government has made the Ukrainian people happy by adding these pathetic 20 dollars. This was at a time when prices rose several times. There's a very nice joke about how Janukovic wants to increase his pension, just put the money in half and put it in his pocket. That's exactly what it's going to be like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we've exchanged thoughts, I'm voting, pay attention. On the adoption as a basis of the draft Act approving the living minimum for 2005. Registration number 6032, please vote. Based on the base. [[11:36:16]] For 321 Yes. By factions, please: Our Ukraine -95, Ukraine - 61, Communist faction - 54, SDPU - 0, Deminicatives, People's Land - 2, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPI - 18, Block Timoshenko - 12, Alliance - 17, NDP, Industrial and Entrepreneurs - 16, Center - 14, Postfaction - 11. Hara Vasil Leontijovich, please. Head of the committee, position of the committee. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u96	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. With all due respect to all speakers, I wish to say that these statements have no bearing on the discussion of a specific law on subsistence. Vladimir Mihajlovich, you're very right when you said it was an objective, regulatory calculation of living minimum. And it must be adopted on first reading and as a law. I therefore request that the decision of our committee be put to the vote, which invites it to adopt it as a whole as a law and not to interfere with the budgetary process in our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Calm down. Dear colleagues, we're in a conflict here. In accordance with the status of the national MP, the MP has the right to make his or her clarifications and additions. But in this case, I would like to say that this is exclusively the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to work with the Cabinet of Ministers to convince him. Now let's check by voting. May I have your attention, please? Please. We've already made our point. We don't need respectable colleagues. I am voting on the approval of the law as a whole, the draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2005. Registration number 6032. Please vote. [[11:38:33]] For-123 The decision is not taken. I'd like the committee to coordinate positions with the National Deputies, to cooperate. The factions? Please. The law was adopted only as a basis. "Our Ukraine" - 1, "Regions of Ukraine" - 60, Communist faction - 5, "Deminiciates" - 0, "Deminiciates" - 9, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPI - 0, "Timoshenko" - 0, "Soyuz" - 15, NDP, "Industrials and Entrepreneurs" - 7, "Centre" - 3, "Centre" - 2. Let us turn to the next question. What? Holy shit, come on! There are no replicas. About what? The feast of procedure and the Bespallian. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the position of our parliamentary group on voting under this law is due to the fact that, on 9 September of this year, Ukrainian national deputies, members of the Dem. Initiatives. The people's authorities have said that they are temporarily suspending their membership in the parliamentary majority. Reasons for this were communication with the government on fundamental issues and, in particular, privatization of oil and gas companies. When the political struggle escalated, it was only in this way that we forced the government to start a meaningful dialogue with us. We are pleased to note that our position has found understanding and support, and the position is taken into account. We are therefore aware that the parliamentary coalition today is the foundation of stability, effective activity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and government, the necessary resource to complete the necessary political reform for the people of Sandler, Rajkov, Kolisnik, Saligin, Davidov, Svašas, Jaroslavski, Galijev, Feldman, Rieznik, Bandurka, Jaroslavski, Karpov, we declare the renewal of their membership in the parliamentary majority and continue to participate actively in the work of the parliamentary-government coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u99	Yes, Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u100	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." The first procedural problem. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I also ask and appeal to the regulatory committee. The Ukrainian National Deputies have the right to make proposals to any draft decree or law taken on a basis. That's why I think you put the vote wrong in general when you were proposing to the national MPs. That's the first one. And the second. I think our colleagues, and we did the right thing without the whole support. Why? Because we think these numbers are very inadequate, because the minimum of living is to be counted from real prices. And prices are rising right now. That's why I think, given the position of both the Cabinet of Ministers and the committee, they're going to count it like the experts of "Our Ukraine" and they're going to make a real living minimum, from 600 to 700, maybe 800 dollars, not the pitiful coins they're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u101	Yes, Rudzkowski. The storm, then we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u102	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! The socialists didn't support such a low subsistence minimum, we're talking to you, honourable national MPs, assigning the government, asking the government, giving real figures, because we see fuel-oil materials doubled, prices for some food products doubled. And we socialists insist that the minimum of living should also be doubled against the inflation that is organized by the electoral process. We think it should be not 382, but at least 750. Then we can plan a budget for each family. Socialists insist that the minimum of living and the budget for the following year should meet the minimum needs of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u103	I think it's possible to talk about the fact that we don't need to limit God's grace. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u104	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear radio listeners, all who are watching the events in the plenary. The faction of the United Social Democrats did not vote in favour of the proposed draft law for the reason that today the Supreme Council became the arena of political commerce was the arena of political pyar. Today, the subsistence minimum, whether accepted or not, will be used by this or other political force with the method of propaganda and agitation for its candidate. So at this stage, the faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party abstained from voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u105	Then the government would have to be offered so that it would not provide a minimum of living and that we would stop living in the country until we ended up with political trades and political battalions. Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u106	Alexander Stoyan, faction. Dear colleagues! You know, I've been listening to famous economists who were telling the truth that as soon as they said they were retiring, prices went up. And what you're proposing is 500, 600, 700 bracelets is the same crane in the sky. You know prices are going to go up in the market. The subsistence minimum is the orientation, and to that end, we have to raise the minimum wage of 100 percent, the pension of 100 percent, other social benefits. And this is the normal orientation, this is the calculated orientation. You can't raise the minimum of living, you have to make social payments. I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put 409 -- what is proposed, agreed upon by the government, employers and the voting professions. Everything else is naked populism and price rises in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already put the vote to the vote, we've got the result. I would ask the committee to agree with the government on this issue. And then we'll go back to looking at it for final acceptance. I want to address the National MPs. Some are doing, as you say, populism in the session room, others are trying to show who is the host in this session room. Let's get up, get our consciences and honors, and work. I want to say again that any instructions not to vote, not to work in the Supreme Council will not pass. I would like those who are giving instructions and those who are implementing them to understand that, according to the Constitution, there is an opportunity to open and hold meetings for the presence of two people and put to the vote, primarily, government and presidential bills, and that the Supreme Council should determine the role of these bills and then on the fate of the country's life. Get your hands off me, please! A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the pension of flight crews of aircraft of the airline of the "Promotion of Defence in Ukraine" reads again. Aloshin Valery Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u108	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons submits for review in a second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the pension insurance of aircrews of aircraft of the airline "Promoting the Defence of Ukraine", former DTSAAF. During the drafting of the bill, five proposals were received from the National MP, George Manchulenka. They're accounted for completely or editorially. And according to the insistence of the drafters of the Bill of People's Deputies Artemenko, Gorlova and Suhogo, who represent Zaporozhye, where extremely strong positions are held by the groups of the Society to promote the defence of Ukraine and part of the work of flight. We have considered this bill and have come to the conclusion that it should be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council and taken into account the outcome of this consideration. A comparative table came up with observations by the Legal Authority of the Apparatus, but still the final decision by the Supreme Council. The committee therefore asks for support and an appropriate response to the legislative initiative. It's about content. In line with the legislation that was in force until January 1, 2004, fliers and other flight crew members had certain special pension conditions. Yet this was not the case with the pilots of the Ukrainian Defense Society. And the authors of the legislative initiative introduced prior to the entry into force of the National Pension Insurance Act initiated the distribution of those special terms of retirement and the distribution of those special terms of the airline’s air force. Accordingly, this legislative initiative is made for your consideration and your request is to be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Please sit down, Valery Borisovich. I'll ask the Cabinet of Ministers to express their position. Olena Vasilovna, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The speaker informed you that the bill was introduced when the Pension Insurance Act was in force. Today, this law is no longer in force and the law on pension insurance is in force. Therefore, it is necessary to make changes to this applicable law. And the legal conclusion of the Supreme Council, the corresponding department of the Supreme Council, is that this is no longer relevant today. Next, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. It is proposed that the pension policy of those individuals be resolved at the expense of other categories of pensioners. That would be socially unfair. Today the Supreme Council passed the law, not today, I mean that the Supreme Council passed the law that provides for the creation of professional pension funds. The Supreme Council has created conditions to provide tax benefits for those employers who will make additional deductions for their employees. Therefore, it would be appropriate to heed the view of the Supreme Council’s legal authorities and to make a decision taking that view into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u111	Yes. Is there no other reason? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! As one of the co-authors of this bill, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the issue is topical or irrelevant, it sounds cynical in this room. Maybe it's out of date for someone, but for those pilots who have been preparing us flyers, that's, for those flight instructors who have been working in the DTSAAF system and are now working with the support of Ukraine's defence, it's very relevant. We are dealing with normal social injustice. Some flight crew members received one pension, while others received the same flight crew members, but DTSAAF received much lower. Therefore, we must eliminate this injustice by voting in favour of this bill in the second reading. This is the first time. It's different. In this room we have already carried out such an act of reinstatement of injustice when we voted in favour of the Dmitry Rudkowski Bill, the General, a member of the Hard Ukraine faction, and introduced amendments and additions in order to eliminate inequities in relation to military personnel who retired in various years. I propose and urge the session room to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Taking into account the suggestions that have just been made, I put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee in a second reading and generally as a law. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on pension insurance for flight crews, aircraft, aviation, and Ukrainian defence associations. [[11:51:59]] For 282 The law is passed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 80, "Regions of Ukraine" - 52, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 0, Deminiciatives, "Narodovladd" - 8, Labour Ukraine - 0, National agrarian - 21, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 2, Union - 14, NDP, industrials - 14, Center - 8, Postfraction - 7. Thank you! Dear colleagues, the draft law on securities and the stock market is under review. Such regulations are proposed. For a report of up to 5 minutes, answers to questions within 5 minutes, for a co-report of up to 3 minutes, for a report of up to 3 minutes and for a question of 3 minutes, for discussion and decision-making of 10 minutes. No objections? So right now we can have the head of the State Commission from the securities and stock market Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich, a report on the draft law on securities and the stock market. Kaputin Victor Volodymyrovich will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u114	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is under the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act. The purpose of the draft law is to implement the Ukrainian Securities and Exchange Act in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil and Economic Codes, which have become effective this year. The need to improve the law, taking into account the experience of the domestic stock market. The draft law on securities and the stock market significantly improves the legislative functioning of the securities market in Ukraine, which will undoubtedly promote the protection of the rights of the State and shareholders. The first step is to expand the list of financial instruments. Bankruptcy, mortgage certificates, real estate certificates that will be processed in the securities market. The bill clearly defines the classification of Ukrainian securities by species, by category. The issue of the existence and transfer of securities, the fulfilment of obligations under securities, is organized. It is positive and new that the bill defines the types and conditions of professional activity in the stock market, compared with the current edition of the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Exchange Act, the bill expands the list of services that can be given to professional participants in the securities market in Ukraine, leads to world standards of definition and requirements for such services, and regulates the strengthening of the responsibility of professional participants in the securities market to users of such services. The implementation of these standards will ensure the reliability, transparency and effectiveness of professional market participants in the securities market. The draft Law, compared to the law in force, clearly at the level of law, defines the phases of emissions in the open, in the undetermined circle of persons, and in the closed, because of the predetermined circle of persons, the placement of securities, and gives them a detailed description. In particular, the bill provides for: the procedure for registering the release of securities at the time of the open and closed distribution of securities, the requirement for a prospectus for the issuance of securities, the order in which the registrations are made, the requirements for the closed and open distribution of securities, the procedure for reporting the results of the placement of securities and the grounds for determining the issue is unintelligible. The draft law introduces a system of disclosure in the stock market that covers all its participants, which meets the basic requirements adopted in countries with developed stock market systems. The project provides for the definition of the term, the scope and the means of disclosure of the activities of securities market entities. These provisions of the bill will certainly reduce investment risks for potential investors and thus make investing in Ukrainian papers more attractive to investors. It should be noted that, compared to the legislation in force, the bill deals with issues related to the use of insider information about the issuer or its securities offered for open sale, which is important for holders of securities and potential investors when deciding on the purchase or sale of securities. The use of such information is particularly relevant in connection with the introduction of a non - state pension scheme in Ukraine. In order to create a transparent pricing system in securities transactions, the ability of stock markets to provide services from the organization of trade is greatly expanded. In addition, the bill proposes a unified approach to the functioning of the trading system by establishing requirements for trade organisers from the organization of trade. A single approach is being taken to create and operate self-regulatory organizations of professional securities market participants, which will strengthen internal control over the compliance of market participants with the securities market, the rules of operation in this market. More than 30 experts, professional market participants in the securities market, scientists, representatives of the Supreme Council, ministries, authorities were involved in the drafting of the law. In line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is recommended that the draft law be adopted in the first reading, taking into account the proposals made. The Committee on Finance and Banking, after considering the draft bill at its meeting, also recommended that it be adopted in the first reading. Honourable National MPs, the adoption of the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Bill will allow increased protection of the rights and legitimate interests of investors in the Ukrainian stock market, as well as the order and legislative determination of the functioning of the stock market as a whole and of individual participants in particular, which will contribute to the formation of a transparent and liquid market for securities in Ukraine as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we'll be asking questions now or. Well, let's ask the reporters now so they don't go out on the rostrum. Please sign up. We have five minutes to ask. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Solomon will next ask his question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u116	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, in general, by sharing the positive estimates of this bill, there are also very, very many shortcomings. And I'd like to ask you, what are you saying is that you're going to lower the legal and regulatory regulation of the law to the law? This is, in particular, article 17 of part three, where you propose the procedure for licensing professional activities in the stock market to be determined by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, not by law. And there's a lot of these -- about the liquidity of traders, there are still cases like this. What do you suggest? Why take the authority of the Supreme Council and hand it over to the State Commission on Securities? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. Indeed, such a question is, and it is being discussed today at the level of committees and factions. Indeed, there is a problem with lowering the status of the regulatory document. And we're ready, in principle, to discuss, to distribute powers between the legislative body and the legislative acts of the commission itself. So I think in preparing the paper for the second reading, we'll take these comments into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u118	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u119	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, would you please tell me whether this bill will contribute to an even faster increase in the number of millionaires in Ukraine if adopted? I'll remind you that according to the State Tax Administration's report on January 1, 2004, we had 853, of which 300 were in Kiev, of which 300 were in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the number of these millionaires is projected to increase 2-3 times. In 2004, it is expected to be 2.5 thousand. The rate of growth of millionaires, rich people, and wealthy people will increase compared to what is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. I find it difficult to answer that question, but I am confident that the adoption of this law and some others will allow some of the millions to fail to meet the goals that are now being achieved in the market for securities. And it organizes the activity of all subjects. I think this law is market-oriented, it gives no reason, a privilege, but it creates a normal, transparent business system. And that's what he's good for. And I don't know how many of them will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u121	Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u122	Our faction will support this bill in the first reading, although we can see that some articles need to be harmonized with the Civil Code. But I have a question that we're asked in the districts. Tell me if this bill will help to put out, so - called securities, or commodity bonds that were given to people in due time. People made money buying these bonds with the hope of getting cars, getting refrigerators or some other valuable things, and they're hung up. Whether this law on securities will help to close these bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u123	I'll tell you straight and square, it won't help. Because the law does not regulate this matter. As far as these commodity bonds are concerned, Oh, my God!!!! First of all, the State. If there is such a problem, it must be resolved through the budget and through other mechanisms. But on the other hand, we have 18 million shareholders today. And this law provides for a substantial increase in their protection, their failure to break their fate, or their loss at all. But this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u124	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u125	Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovsk I'd like to ask. You're now referring to the fact that this bill is based on international experience. Please describe what documents, international documents, or other countries, refer to the fact that, as it is written here in chapter six, which establishes the obligation of members of the Fund’s market to participate in professional associations. This violates the right to free choice of citizens of the united trade unions!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u126	Chapter seven? Six. What article? Chapter six — First or Second? "Self-regulatory organizations"?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u127	I'm asking you, Anatoly Ivanovich, to come to Vitali Jakovitch and give an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u128	Vitaly Yakovich, if you'll excuse me, we'll be with you. I didn't understand the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, this is how I propose we proceed. Now take a break for 30 minutes, up to 12 hours 35 minutes. And we will continue our consideration of the draft Law on Securities and Stock Markets. I would like to remind you that we have now moved on to a package of government bills. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u130	Please invite the people's deputies to the session room and we will continue our consideration of the draft Law on Securities and Stock Markets. The first deputy chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking is Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I, frankly, can say with great regret that both the Supreme Council and the government are not paying enough attention to such an important, perhaps most important market economy as the stock market. This is evidenced by the fact that we still have a law that we passed back in 1991 on securities and stock exchange. And it's working now, and it's valid, and over the past 13 years, reality has changed, terms have changed, rules have changed in the stock market. We have never been able to adopt a new law that corresponds to the realities of today. In fact, the negative factor, the very negative factor is that in the securities market, we were unable to set transparent rules for the game. Unfortunately, the market has the right to power, not the right to law. So this bill that we're considering with you today is trying to create clear, clear rules of conduct on the Ukrainian stock market. So far, we still haven't fully understood the fact that the stock market is the same tool, the lever that actually stimulates the growth of the economy, which leads to rapid redistribution, the transfer of capital from one sector to another, which actually stimulates the rapid pace of economic progress. From this point of view, this law is extremely important. I would like to say that he introduces a whole series of new concepts, this notion of insider information, the notion of insiders, the notion of professional activity in the stock market and the details of this professional activity, the creation of market organizers and so on. So this law is extremely important. I am very grateful to the Scientific and Expert Office, which has examined this bill very professionally and thoroughly and has made a number of observations. Most of these observations are important, and these comments will be taken into account in preparing for second reading. Our committee, the Committee on Finance and Banking, has carefully considered this law, and we believe that, despite certain things that we will need to adjust, we will need to change between the first and the second readings, and we will need to adopt this law as a basis. So I very much ask the honourable national deputies to support this decision. Although there are not many of us left in this room, I suggest we gather now and vote in favour of this law, which is very important. And those talkative things that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for Victor Volodymyrovich? Please sign up for questions and answers for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u133	Dear Victor Volodymyrovich! I understand the need for law and international terminology, but there are a lot of totally misunderstood things that are not that for the general public, even for specialists, of words. Should they be deciphered in some way by appropriate Ukrainian matches? That's the first question. And the second is purely technical. There are both the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City Councils as legal persons. And are territorial communities such as district councils completely forgotten, is it special or accidental in chapter one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u134	As for the purity of the language, in general, I have always advocated the purity of the language and the ability to speak as pure a language as possible in my own language. But there are professional terms that unfortunately do not translate, they are used professionally in international practice, in all countries of the world. This is, for example, the term "insiders" or "andiraiding." Actually, these are professional terms. And I don't think we need to translate them very carefully. As to the second question, when it comes to allowing the district authorities or the district authorities to issue securities, that is, to issue essentially debt obligations. You know, I don't support this option because this is actually, in this case, we could lose control of government debt, over the amount of government debt and over the repayment of this government debt. Maybe we can discuss this in the context that such actions by local authorities are only possible after reconciliation, for example with the Ministry of Finance, maybe we can find this compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u135	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u136	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. I'd like to ask you to explain in an explanatory note in the section "The Reasons and Needs to Adopt an Act" is a reference to the document "Programme System Loan 2". What is it? What are they eating it with? What does this have to do with a small Ukrainian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u137	You mean an explanatory note to the law. We'll find it now. I can't find it right now. Actually, the software system loan-2 and the software system loan-1 were looked at in the mid-1990s, 1996-1999. This is a software loan for support for business in Ukraine, and it is now being considered providing Ukraine with a program. Loans 2 and this needs to be provided with certain securities and government guarantees. Therefore, consideration of this issue is linked to the adoption of this law, which enables us to establish a transparent market for securities in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u138	Vladimir Cherniak. None. So everyone who signed up for the question was asked. Thank you, Victor Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u140	Let's move on to the discussion, please. I didn't see you there. Sorry, sorry, sorry. The question of Volodymyr Black. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u141	Dear Victor Volodymyrovich, I also support the adoption of this Law, it is in time, it is needed, but at the same time I have such a question. How do we know that the stock market, the capital market, the investment market are closely linked to each other, thus contributing to the adoption of this Law to a favourable investment climate in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u142	Well, generally civilized investments are made through the stock market. In the stock market, there are, as it were, true categorizations of shares, securities that give them a real, real, up - to - date market price. If a legal person or a natural person wants to invest in securities, it is through the stock market that it is made transparent, clear, and everyone sees it. By the way, how do we protect our stock market? I'd like to say that the recent decision on Ukraine, they actually failed the stock market in Ukraine dozens of times, has dropped some of the shares. This is, of course, a very big problem, including an investment problem. In developed countries, this would, of course, be a matter of actual economic and political collapse. We have, since the market is very underdeveloped, it is at such a very low level, this issue has not been discussed very seriously. But it's actually a big investment problem if we don't develop the stock market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u143	Thank you, Victor Vladimirovich. Have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. As we agreed, 10 minutes for discussion and decision-making. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u144	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I are considering a government bill. The bill is presented by the government of capitalist ministers and, more than that, by millionaires. And they set up their affairs in this bill to make them live better. The explanatory note to this bill states that the bill is intended to meet certain requirements of the Program System Loan 2 project. So we're looking forward to some borrowing from abroad to support a domestic so-called manufacturer. And where he is, and what he makes, we already know. And the second. Take paragraph nine of the steps taken to implement the priorities of corporate governance in equity companies approved by the Cabinet in 2003. And we also know what corporate governance is, and how it defines itself when the issue concerns the redistribution of property or the management of that property by the example of Crevistals and other large domestic enterprises. So our faction with understanding referred to the government's efforts to set things straight, capitalist relations in our society. But she understood and declared that it would not affect the well - being of the disadvantaged Ukrainian people on either side or on the other. So our faction has decided that it will not support this bill. And if necessary, let the capitalists and the millionaires handle it and support it. Moreover, in my view, as the national deputy of Ukraine, it is very interesting to see that the activities of professional participants in the stock market are licensed. I'm crying, I'm so excited. When we and I were offered a personal license to extract useful fossils, all the representatives of his patronage, the capitalist, opposed such licensing, almost all the Supreme Council opposed! Or are those in power only in the bourgeois opposition, and here we will license those fraudsters who will be already law-frauders! Our faction will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u145	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vitalia Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u146	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschchenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I want to say that the valid law on securities and stock exchange, which was adopted back in the 91st year, of course, is obsolete and, of course, does not meet the current requirements for the development of the stock market. In addition, you and I have adopted the new Civil Code of Ukraine, which came into force on January 1, 2004. Today we live on it. Therefore, a new law is needed. It's just life. As for what the previous speakers have just said about what the decision on Crude Oil has brought down the market for securities, it's a purely corrupt decision. You understand that very well. And in a normal state, the President would have shot himself when he signed a decree that gives one clan what belongs to the people of Ukraine! Two oil refineries were dedicated to clans that served well on the back of the President’s feet. So let's not confuse the law with outright banditry, it's outright banditry, what I've just said, what my previous colleagues have been talking about, just a little bit not what they call it. I firmly disagree with this project to establish that the terms and conditions of licensing, I stress, and the terms and procedures of licensing in the stock market would be determined by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. This is a reduction in the legal and regulatory regulation of the law for a sub-law. This is a violation of the same terrible plague that is coming today, a corrupt plague in the state. And, let's say we refuse to go to the developers, because I understand that it's not the Prime Minister, he probably didn't make it harder to read it, because he makes 10 mistakes on one sheet, so he probably didn't do it, only his signature is there. I want from this rostrum, I'm going to support in the first reading and I'm going to make comments. But I want to turn to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, and I want to address all the Ukrainian people and all the national MPs. What we've seen is what the authorities have done to Viktor Yushchenko as the no doubt leader of the presidential race they want to distribute now, under the direction of the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, our colleague with you, until, Vladimir Satsuka, the administration of the security service in Kiev and Kiev, there is a monitoring of family members and the head of the Supreme Council himself. [[Think about it!]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, be careful. And I call on the law enforcement committees to give back to these people by allowing them to say that they have crossed all human boundaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u147	Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u148	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to thank you for saying only one reply about the law and then to convey the word to Czernovetsk. Pay attention, dear colleagues. The bill was presented in a package with the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage and Securities. Look at this registration number, we're going to be looking at it. So I want to say that according to the seventh article of the First Act on Securities in force, the notion is that "the specificities of the conditions of release, use and circulation of privatisation papers, mortgage and mortgage securities are defined by Ukraine's special law." So what I want to point out is that mortgage securities remain in the area of Ukrainian legislation, and privatisations come out of it. And then Chernewsky asks for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Our Ukraine faction, Leonid Chernowitz. First of all, I want to say that I have confidence in the leader of socialists, Alexander Moroz, who is a clean and decent person. And I think it's a misunderstanding, what happened between our factions today. And secondly, I want to say that I was sitting next to the leader of our Ukraine today, whom I haven't seen in a long time. Anyone who listens to us and sees us should know that he's been poisoned. I saw his face. It's a real horror at all, that one of the country's leading politicians is being traumatized at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u150	Let's go to the Securities Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u151	Your communists must be the same, because you're talking nonsense. Yeah? You should be crying, not laughing! At least you're not fed! You're just walking around with a herd. It's like a light bulb.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u152	I'm asking: let's go to the draft Securities and Stock Market Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u153	Now listen. Of course, the very important Securities Act, which can be supported in the first reading out of respect for Mr. Baluk, behaves in an orderly manner in this market. But it is also important to know that people in Ukraine are killed and traumatized. And I saw it with my own eyes today. I didn't want to believe what happened. I personally know the raid of the leader of our Ukraine. It's all over! He eats very modestly. And he doesn't have any stomach problems. It's poison. And I want the people of Ukraine to know that. And the fact that they're still being seduced by a decent man who's completely out there today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u154	Let's go to the draft law on securities and stock market!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u155	Now, about the securities. I want to tell you that no cinnamon paper, right? - Under the current Ukrainian rule, they will not be saved because someone will apply them, and that must be known to Mr. Baluk, because the current Government of Ukraine and all the power of the left! That's how my colleagues on the left sit. Yeah? They don't have valuable papers in their heads. They have ropes and bitches that they want to see entrepreneurs on. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I asked you today to legislate to use a maratorium and release a million people who didn't want to pay bribes and put them in jail for it. They are job-makers. This is article 212 of Ukraine. I have asked this question today in our Ukraine. It was Victor that kept me going. Victor Yushchenko. I talked to Kravczuk about it. He said it was a good law. Please, stop! They sit on steam instead of creating a new Ukraine and paying a tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u156	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, let's talk about the substance of the bill. And I'm going to have to turn off the microphone if the speaker talks not essentially the question. Let's make a deal. A review of the draft law, please! - consideration of the draft law on securities and stock market completed. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. I'll bet this one. vote on. a motion for a vote. On the basis of the draft law on securities and stock market, registration number 5310. Please vote. [[12:56:49]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 97, Ukraine - 0, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, Deminiciatives - People's Government - 7, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPI - 18, Block Timoshenko - 5, Union - 11, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 6, Center - 14, Postfraction - 8. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Our vote testifies to our attitude toward the stock market. It's a shame and a shame, actually. We cannot accept the Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks for thirteen years. What are we talking about in general, what is the market economy development we're talking about here? Dear friends, there is an offer to accept at least the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u158	I'll re-read it, but there won't be any votes. I'm making a proposal to the committee, dear colleagues. And then I'm going to sum it up, I'm going to say, name things with my names. Just a minute. I'm asking you to calm down, then take it out of motive. One moment, calm down, please. Change the vote. For reasons, please, Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! If we want to build a civilized market economy, we need to adopt laws on securities and stock markets, not the wild market, the mafia market, the clan market that we have. Now it's a political evaluation. Notice, the "Regions of Ukraine", the U.S.S.A., the communists do not vote in favour of this law. It's government, and most factions don't vote for it. Where is the logic of most of these factions, and what is the position of these factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u160	I'll put it to a vote. Please be calm, don't be happy, dear fellows. I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to re-read the draft law on securities and the stock market. Registration number 5310. [[12:59:46]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 96, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 53, SDPU - 0, Deminiciatives, "The People's Government" - 7, "The People's Ukraine" - 0, National, Agrarian - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16, Union - 11, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 12, Center - 14, Postfraction - 9. Dear colleagues, one more minute, I want to say it with all honesty and principle. The point is, the command is given to individual factions to "bring down" the Supreme Council, not to vote. This is the right of factions. At the same time, when government bills are put to the vote, this will give rise to a second conclusion. The first conclusion is that they're going to stand where we say, put in place one more time, it won't work, I mean. Second, that is the basis for accusing the Supreme Council of its indisposition. That she does not accept the necessary laws that are essential for the country. They want to destroy the Supreme Council of Ukraine with your hands. Once again, if you destroy the Supreme Council before the presidential election, after the presidential election, there will be no return to the session room. Because then it will become quite obvious to people that such a parliament is not needed by Ukraine. I want to say again, let's demonstrate our responsibility. These aren't anti-government actions of the Supreme Council, they're going to be normal actions of understanding in the Supreme Council. Or else let's not finance, not tabulate, but we can't keep looking at how the MP talks and calls for a vote, and they took the card. Let's talk about the basics. I want to say again, regardless of any scenario, the Supreme Council will be the Supreme Council, in any configuration, but it will be the Supreme Council. The draft Law on Mortgage Securities is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5159.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u161	Is that what this is about? Please, the Supreme Council denies it. The motive was already there. Reporter: Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market, Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Kaputin Victor Volodymyrovich will be the narrator. This is an order, please. For the reporter -- five minutes, answers to questions -- five minutes, for the interview, three and three minutes, for the discussion, for the decision-making -- in 10 minutes. No objections? Please, Rudzkowski, excuse me for the reasons for this. I'll just, I'll stop if there's no topic here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u162	Honourable National Deputies, Rudzkowski, Socialist Party of Ukraine Yes, there is really blocking the work of the Supreme Council, but we don't need to vote on the changes to the Constitution for such blockades. Parliament will then be Parliament, not dependent on the President's Administration, not on anyone, but on the speaker's leadership of Parliament, in volumes that he doesn't even have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u163	Yes. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I've failed, on such a day as this. Well, I'd like to go back to the first question of one line, to the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u165	I'm asking you to essentially ask me a question. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u166	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, that's what happens. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich, according to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u168	I wanted to say a good word. Honourable National Deputies, the purpose of the Ukrainian Mortgage Securities Bill, is to involve Ukraine in the economy of long-term financial resources through funds market tools and the development of Ukraine's financial sector. One of the main tasks of the project is to define the characteristics of the release and circulation of securities, such as mortgage bonds, the set requirements for mortgage coverage, which result in their release, the identification of the participants in the mortgage securities market and the requirements for their activities, and the state regulation of the mortgage securities market. The bill contains six chapters. These include sections on the identification of types of mortgage securities and requirements for mortgage bonds issuers, the handling and management of mortgages, government regulation and supervision in the area of mortgage securities. Among the main provisions of the bill is it appropriate to focus your attention on the following. The bill lays down general conditions for the release and circulation of mortgage securities, according to which the requirements for the issuance, distribution and circulation of mortgage securities are implemented in accordance with the order established by securities legislation. Determines that the issuer of normal mortgage bonds can be exclusively a mortgage creditor. It establishes that the exclusive activity of a specialised mortgage institution is the acquisition of mortgage assets and the issuance of structured mortgage bonds. Determines the size of the mortgage, sets the legal mode of mortgage coverage, the order of conversion, and the amount. and running a mortgage register. The law establishes, at the level of law, the functions and rights of managers by mortgage coverage, the requirements of a mortgage management contract, the replacement of a manager. The Law clearly identifies the competence of the general congregations of mortgage - held securities, a list of issues that may be dealt with. The bill defines the competence and authority of the authorities to regulate the state in the area of mortgage securities, the activities of financial institutions that will provide financial services in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. In addition, taking into account the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Credit, the transactions with consolidated mortgage debt and mortgage certificates, as well as the amendment to the article of the first Ukrainian law on securities and stock exchange by article 3 of the bill, it is determined that relations in the field of issuance and circulation of mortgage certificates are regulated by the Act of Ukraine. The bill, as well as a bill on securities and stock market, was developed with the participation of scientists, representatives, professional market participants in securities markets, representatives of ministries and authorities and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine’s bill is supported by the National Bank of Ukraine. Ukraine's main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the draft law on mortgage securities recommended for adoption in the first reading. Honourable National Deputies, the adoption of the Ukrainian Mortgage Securities Bill will create the necessary conditions for the development of new financial instruments, will contribute to the comprehensive development of the mortgage lending market, which in turn will lead to the inclusion of significant investment resources in the real economy of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u169	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Karmazin, follow by Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u170	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, please tell me, I have been thoroughly familiar with this law, do you not see that this law could be one of the sections of that law that is in principle about securities and the stock market and which we wanted to adopt today in a new edition? Could it be a section of the Mortgage Loan Act in the operation of a consolidated mortgage and mortgage certificates? It's about this balanced approach to legislation, not the creation of legislation on a case-by-case basis, as scientists call it -- butterfly laws. I call all the time. Don't you think it's possible to make it a chapter in that law, and that would be entirely consistent with both the Civil Code and those laws that I just called them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. Well, it should be noted that this law defines the characteristics of the release and circulation of mortgage securities. The law has been in the Supreme Council for a long time; it has been heard in committees and factions. In principle, it might be possible to look at it together with the Scientific and Experimental Authority regarding the inclusion of it in the law you were talking about. Yet I don't think it's going to be some kind of burden, that it's going to be a separate, special law that will regulate the circulation and emissions of these mortgage securities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u172	Please, Matthew, follow Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u173	55th Precinct, Mariupol. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! I understand very well that we can talk a lot today about the lies, about the shortcomings of a legislative act that we are considering today in particular. But I think everyone here and those who understand what we're talking about understands that the hardest part is the brach, the absence of any law of any kind. We are also well aware of this bill. Yes, it does require refinement, yes, it is raw, but we understand very well that the lack of any legislative framework leads to abuse and the absence of such a mortgage policy that is not available today. Therefore, I am well aware of this bill, and I simply urge the MPs to vote in favour of it in the first reading in order to then engage in the work and establish a serious legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u174	Thank you, I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u175	Please, Solomatin, follow him, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u176	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Please explain to a small Ukrainian who today, by radio, does not have a piece of property, has been fooled, but has a piece of land, is about to receive an appropriate document on the right of ownership of this land. He no longer wants this earth; he does not know where to touch it. Please tell us a little Ukraine. Would it improve the fate of this person in possessing something that he no longer needs, that he will receive from this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u177	I think a small Ukrainian will be helped by this law. As far as the earth is concerned, the earth is not the subject of regulation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u178	Please, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich. The law is certainly very important and necessary. Are you considering today, on the Commission, the issues that still need to be addressed as a matter of urgency, especially with regard to mortgages, property? Maybe we don't have a breakup. Your opinion: what is necessary today in order to move asset valuation issues as quickly and effectively as possible, because they will have to provide these securities so that asset owners do not lose? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u180	Well, I think there's a Evaluation Act today that clearly regulates this area of activity. And there is no additional law that allows for more, even more accurate assessment, there is no need for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u181	Please, Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u182	Catherine Vaschuk, National Agrarian Party of Ukraine That's my question. Is there a mortgage on the land? We insist that the land as special in Ukraine, well, property form -- this is all state-owned, all-Ukrainian value -- does not go, like ordinary goods, through mortgages, through mortgages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u183	Thank you. Well, we talked to Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk about this issue during the break. We do not introduce the idea of the earth into this law. If you have to write any more points, let's just make sure that between the first and the second readings we just don't have any suspicion that there's something going on here to drag something. We agree with that offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u184	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Three minutes report, three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u185	Honorable National MPs. Well, I don't think you should talk about the essence of this law, because it was all said. I want to say something else. In fact, this law is a continuation of the previous Law on Securities and Stock Markets. The previous law in chapter six states that the circulation of mortgaged securities and some other papers, but we're talking only about this species right now, it's regulated by special legislation. That's what we're here for. I'm going to say that, in our opinion, when we looked at this law on the committee, it's no less important than the previous one. I only hope that he won't repeat the fate of the previous law, and yet we'll accept it. In fact, the adoption of this law will stimulate the involvement of long-term money in our economy. This is an extremely important factor. We've talked many times about the fact that we're short on investment, we're short on long-term resources. In this case, we are taking a serious step toward achieving that goal. So, honourable people's deputies, I once again urge you to look soberly and wisely at this law and this law that we are about to vote on, and I invite you to vote for it, because it is extremely important and creates serious preconditions for economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u186	Thank you. Is there a question? None. Yes. Then please sign in. Please explain. Three minutes. Carmazine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! I share what you said, but I'd like to hear your answer. Is it possible that we could not give birth to man-made laws but rather make this law a part of the securities and stock market law? And to codify in this way all the laws that are aimed at all the good things that you've been talking about. In fact, it's based on legislation that regulates mortgage lending and the credit market as a whole. Why it can't be done and whether it can be done technically, in your opinion, on second reading, including when we go back to the previous securities and stock market law. This will just make it easier for all Ukrainian citizens to work. Today the base is 3,000 laws. They don't know how to work it, they turn to letters all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u188	I'm answering that question. Technically, this can be done naturally. And technically, this legislation on securities can be incorporated into the law. on mortgage securities to be included in the securities and stock exchange law. Technically, I don't see a problem here. But why are these different laws? Because the law on securities and the stock market, which we unfortunately didn't just adopt, was prepared a long time ago. It was prepared a few years ago in its foundation and, unfortunately, it had wandered the towers of the Supreme Council for several years and thus could not be brought into the hall for various reasons, which you also spoke of in your speech just now. So since it was prepared, we considered it a little earlier and put it into the hall as a separate law. After that, the law on mortgage securities was considered. Although technically, I don't see much of a problem here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u189	Please, Samantha.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u190	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Please tell me if there is such a danger that, over time, for example, a few months after the adoption of such a law if adopted, changes and additions are made to it, for example: "including the mortgage of the land." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u191	Well, to every law we have the right, subjects of the legislative initiative have the right to propose changes, additions, proposals and so on and so forth. If the Supreme Council votes in favour of such a change, of course this law will change. But once again I wanted to support Mr. Baluk about that. The mortgage of the land is not in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u192	Quick, please. Passes the word Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u193	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Your Honor, you just said in response to Solomon that there is no mortgage in this law on the land. But you may have forgotten about the mortgage law, which clearly provides for the land’s mortgage. Article 8, paragraph 3, of this bill provides for mortgages, debts, and mortgages. Thus, the legal basis for the land’s mortgage has already been established, and this will only be translated into securities. Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u194	Dear Valentina Petrovna, if you want to know my personal point of view, one day we will surely come to the point where the earth will be bought and sold. Not now, maybe 20 years later. But if we do create a civilized society and a civilized market, we're going to sell and buy land as an important factor in social production, we understand that. If from an economic point of view rather than a political point of view, it will someday be. So, of course, there are some prerequisites for this, and we have to make certain laws. But if we're talking about the philosophy of this legislation and the previous legislation, and now, the philosophy of this law does not provide for the sale of land. And on our faction we've said this not once, we're now speaking for not selling or buying land, and on the committee we've been discussing this. So from this point of view, I think I answered correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u195	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, as agreed, we have ten minutes to discuss and make decisions. So nine minutes we're talking, one minute we're making a decision. The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u196	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the attitude of our faction towards this law has been laid out mainly in discussing the bill that we discussed a little earlier, Bill 5310. What I want to say about this bill is that I personally see the adoption of this bill as an incentive to extend the land’s mortgage. I gave my warning on this matter to Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, and I am grateful and grateful to her for those people who are connected with the earth and who are listening to us now. So our faction has decided that it will not support this bill and I call upon all the apathetic deputies of all factions not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u197	Please give the floor to the national deputy Karmazin, who will be followed by Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u198	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to define the characteristics of the release and circulation of mortgage securities, government regulation and market control of these papers, which should contribute to Ukraine's economic participation in long-term financial resources and the development of the stock market. And I've asked you a question here, both to the government and to the representatives of the Committee about our approach with you to legislation, how to facilitate the lives of Ukrainian citizens today, who don't know what to do with three thousand legislative acts. Who do not know what to do with the same number of presidential decrees that interfere with legislation and then the clarification and decision of the government of the decree, and then the decision of the Tax Administration and others, and others. There's something scary going on with our legislation. Too bad there's no Vladimir Mikhailovich now. I suggested that these issues be resolved systematically, qualified, and improved. But this project is certainly the latest in a package of basic laws and bills aimed at regulatory regulation of mortgage lending and the entire credit market. That includes the Civil Code, which we have adopted with you, and the Law on Mortgage, and on Creditors and Load Registration, and the Law on Mortgage Loans and Mortgage Certificates, and the Law on Financial and Credit Mechanisms and Property Management in Housing and Real Estate Operations, as well as draft laws on State registration of property rights are not immovable property and their limitations, on the State Land cadastre. All these laws have to be considered in the complex. Of course, this bill is better developed than before. But I would like to reconcile it on second reading with the Mortgage Loan Act with consolidated mortgage debt and mortgage certificates. I would like this law to become part of the Securities and Stock Market Act. This would be theoretically very, very justified. And there we could, on the second reading of all these laws, just put them together and actually the subject of regulation there. These are securities, just different kinds of securities. So I would like to adopt this law in the first reading and continue to return to the Securities Law, which is now broken for political reasons. Keep working for the benefit of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u199	The word is given by the national deputy of Chernevski. He's followed by a nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u200	Honourable Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies. Leader of the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Our Ukraine faction, Leonid Chernovetski. First of all, I wanted to say the most, because because I am the leader of the faction, the leader of the Christian-liberal party, what God is, right? And Yushchenka is only alive because he is! And that is a very important circumstance that must be borne in mind by those who listen to our broadcast today. And the second. I want to say that there is also God because today Adam Ivanovich and I seem to have agreed that this week we will obey the Law on the Elimination of Pollution and Privileges for All Branches of Power. These are tens of thousands of Mercedes, special Mercedeses, specials, a large number of hotels that like communists, free, and all the rest of the property that will immediately go to the savings books of my constituents. And third. The law that is today. You like living in a free hotel, I understand that, don't you? It's that books don't go off savings. Then shut up and let me talk, because it's impossible to scream. And, Lord, forgive me for saying such words because it is not good to speak to a communist. The Housing Certificates Act is necessary, it is indeed a path to the future, because it is indeed a necessary investment for Ukraine. Therefore, as a liberal, I am asking you to vote in favour of this law. This is a good law, a liberal law that is needed for Ukraine. Well, that's the last one. I want to say that someone will apply these laws if Adam Ivanovich does not contain his promise and my Amnesty Act tomorrow, who refused to pay bribes, did not want to bow down to any cockroaches, including those who are in prison, and would not be put to the vote for any deliberate reason. [[Not the ores, the communists.]] We do not need laws to punish those who open jobs today. We need new tax deductions for the content of our pensioners, which I want to give hope to. If Adam Ivanovich holds back his promise, you will receive immediate compensation for the savings books within the month. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u201	The word is given by the national deputy of Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u202	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. The adoption of this law will contribute to the creation of a civilized real estate market. That's the main thing. We don't have a civilised market in Ukraine, in many ways it's wild. And in particular, there is no civilized real estate market. If we adopt this law, we will help to set up an appropriate legal basis for the creation of a civilised real estate market. Which is reflected in the circulation of securities. There is a denial about the earth. It's a question of debate, and I admit it. But the mortgage law has been passed, where this issue is already resolved, we can no longer give back-to-back, we are obliged to be consistent in our legislative activities. Another question is, Carmazin raised it, right. It would be better to really include all of these innovations in this law, to include in the framework law, in the Securities and Stock Exchange Act. Or the framework law on the mortgage. But we didn't do it, and the problem is pressing. Thus, it is fitting that in this situation a special law, the law, should be passed on to the framework laws. Maybe in the future we'll include it in the framework law, but now it would be inappropriate to expect it. I mean, the situation obliges us to adopt this law in the first reading. And, in conclusion, general reasoning. Instead of giving the right power, people have given power to the right. Parliament's task is to give real power, and the effectiveness of Parliament is precisely that. The executive is trying to give power to the right, and there is a contradiction between two branches of power. And we must not allow the executive to give power to the right, we must give the right power. I can't understand how government factions can't vote for government laws. I can't call Parliament in a world where that would be possible. Strangely enough, I, a representative of the opposition, vote in favour of government laws that I believe are civilized, and the majority of the factions of Ukraine, whose head is the Prime Minister, do not vote. Call me somewhere else in the world a country where it could be!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u203	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. What you're saying is that we need political reform. The discussion is over, we'll vote. For the reasons of the vote, Semenyuk, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u204	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for being able to say. But it was not an accident that I said that we could not accept today without warning on earth, especially since article 83 of the Earth Code provided for the transfer of land to joint ventures. You can imagine what's going to happen -- the launch of securities in joint ventures, and the stagnation of land, which is stipulated in the Mortgage Act. So article eight, third paragraph -- he can't be in this bill at all. I ask him to delete it and not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u205	I'm voting on the draft Law on Mortgage Securities, registration number 5159. [[13:33:06]] For-167 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 87, Ukrainian regions - 2, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 0, Democratic Initiatives and People's Government - 4, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, Socialists - 0, Block Timoshenko - 8, Union - 8, NDP, Industrial and Entrepreneurs - 17, Center - 13, Non-Faction - 7. Let's do it again first, shall we? Please, the committee's proposal is for one more time. [[13:34:03]] For 176 The bill was rejected. There's a draft law on the State's Drinking Water Program of Ukraine. Bill number 5222. Let's do the same thing as the previous one. Five minutes to report, five minutes to answer the question, three minutes to report, answers and 10 minutes to discuss and make decisions. I invite the head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities of Semchuk Grigori Mihajlovich to report. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Today, the draft law on the state-wide drinking water program of Ukraine is being introduced for your consideration. In recent years, there has been a sharp deterioration in the status of the main sources of water supply, which has been explained by inadequate economic activity, pollution of ponds and groundwaters by pesticides, phenols, surface substances, nitrogen compounds, heavy metals, petroleum products, and pathogens. This leads to a disruption of the natural processes of water self - cleaning and a major complication of the problem of quality drinking water in the water - and - sanitation industries. Other factors that have a negative impact on the supply of scarce drinking water are: the slow introduction of new technologies into water supply practices, sanitation, treatment of natural sewage; the poor use of groundwater in many areas for drinking water supplies that are heavily protected from pollution and are practically the only source of water in emergencies; the low efficiency of surface and groundwater storage operations in watersheds; and the availability of wastes of polluted water and unrealized wastes in sanitation areas. An analysis of the current state of the water industry in many regions of Ukraine shows that wet-ecological problems preserve large-scale character and acuteness. The measures taken to change this situation are not sufficient to provide quality water for the population. All of this requires an immediate solution to the development, approval, implementation of the state-wide Drinking Water Programme of Ukraine, which would become a software document in the field of quality drinking water. The programme provides for fundamental research in the field of drinking water supply and sanitation; increased efficiency, reliability of drinking water supply systems based on the implementation of water protection, technical, financial and economic and other measures, including the creation of regulatory drinking water supplies in the event of emergencies; the development of technical systems and equipment, including compact and mobile equipment for the treatment of contaminated and highly mineralized water for drinking water supply; the improvement of the regulatory and scientific and technical base in the field of drinking water supply; the construction and reconstruction of the most important facilities; and the implementation of measures requiring funding from the State budget, including subsidies from the State budget for renovation projects. The tasks listed are large and complex, so the program foresees a step - by - step implementation. In the first phase, measures should be taken by 2008 to stabilize the water sector and provide a basis for the gradual improvement and development of the drinking water supply system. To this end, legislative and regulatory frameworks will be improved, appropriate regional programmes will be developed, measures will be implemented to protect the recovery of drinking water sources. We're going to develop a modern scientific and technical supply of drinking water, and pilot projects in the field are being implemented. At the second stage, this is 2002-2013, there will be measures to improve the efficiency and reliability of drinking water supply systems, to increase the quality of drinking water. To this end, the regulatory framework will be completed and regional programmes will be implemented. In the third phase, 2014-2018, they are building completed regional programmes and actions that will provide quality drinking water for the population. The project is designed to cover the amount of work and funding for each year, by the central authority of the executive branch on housing and utilities, taking into account regional proposals. The total amount of funding from the country’s state budget is over $5 billion. With a view to the purpose and effective use of these funds, to facilitate interaction and coordination of the work of ministries, other central executive bodies, local self - government bodies, enterprises, agencies and organizations associated with the implementation of the programme and the management envisaged by the measures, it is envisaged that an interagency coordination board be established. The position of the Council and its composition will be approved by the government. The implementation of the programme will improve the supply of drinking water to the population of a sufficient quantity with a gradual approach to European Union standards. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this project. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. Oh, no? Then please sign in. On the board, five minutes Yukhnovsky. After him, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u208	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Water is known to be the most important element in human life. So I want to know if the Ministry is running some standardization that this drinking water that's sold in stores should satisfy. I know, for example, that the best drinking water is." The Ordana, which is produced by an academic consortium like this. Do you have a water classification that sells?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u209	Thank you for asking. It's very important, especially now that there's a lot of complaints about this water being bottled up and sold in the market. But here, on this issue, it's a matter of the State's protection. They establish standards and control the quality of bottled water that goes into implementation. According to our committee, we're doing this kind of monitoring, and behind us is legal and regulatory and technical security. This is drinking water from surface and underground water sources. And by the way, this program just predicts further improvement of this regulatory framework. And we've already begun to develop a government standard for drinking water. The drinking water standard is still in force in the Soviet Union. And for the first time, we're developing the Ukrainian State Standard for Water from Surface Water Sources.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u210	National deputy of Matvienkov. After him, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u211	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Grigory Mikhailovich, you are truly well aware of what water is, and everyone understands. But I'd like to ask you a question. Donbass, the city of Mariupol. Indeed, the problem of drinking water is very serious, very difficult. But I still can't understand why such regions, in particular the city of Mariupol, should pay the budget for the use of non-standard water? Do you not think that such regions, on the contrary, should receive subsidies from the central budget for the loss of their health? For this is not the will of the inhabitants of the city, nor the will of the city authorities, because we cannot provide this water. That's the first question. Second question. Crucify. Today, I know, half the regions no longer have this mediation structure. It still exists in many regions. It's not enough that she doesn't understand what she's taking money for and doubting, so to speak, services and turns. We are now looking at the privatization programme. He spoke as an object wishing to participate in the privatization process. We've had enough of this, sorry. Your attitude on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u212	As for the first question in the Donbas region. In general, I would like to say that today we are concerned about the issue of sharp deterioration not only of surface sources but also of underground sources of water supply in the Donetsk and Luhansk region. In connection with the closure of the mines, a sharp mineralization continued. Today, in the Luhansk region alone, about 70 percent of the groundwater does not match today’s visitor. As for paying for some kind of water, nonstandard water? We made an offer-- that payment should be, I think. He should discipline water - producing enterprises in this case with regard to improving water quality. One minute, but we've made a suggestion that these are now working out the appropriate ministry that this money should come back to improve the quality of drinking water. The second question is, "The Waterworks," and so on. Indeed, there is such a problem. We've just developed, our institutes, the Donetsk region, a targeted development programme, a reform of the water supply and sewerage agriculture of the Donetsk region, which provides for the transfer of the Water Chartermethet to municipal property and on the basis of the Water Charter, and other water canals to create a regional company called Water Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u213	Please, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u214	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Please tell us, Your Honor Gregory Mikhailovich, more and more recently, the supply of drinking water to the Reycentrists and villages is being transferred into private hands. Quality is not improving, so is service. So this state-wide drinking water program of Ukraine predicts in the end that the state will deal with this issue or these private structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u215	Thank you for asking. It's interesting. Well, first of all, the State's Drinking Water Program doesn't provide for a better water-supply management system. This is a clearly targeted program. I would define three basic chapters: this is science and technology, science and technology. It's scientific and technical co-operation, it's new technology and equipment and state support in this matter. As far as management is concerned, this is defined by the state-wide reform program that you approved at the last session. Our position and we're proposing to build regional water companies based on water canals, a water company established in the Luhansk region. We also provide for the rental of management into the concession of enterprises in this case and the water supply.!Oh, my God! the economy of specialized organizations that can do this work. It's a world practice. We need to understand that only on the basis of tariffs and budgets of all levels will we not get the water supply and sanitation economy out of the crisis. The involvement of private capital and investment is considered to be one of the strategic directions for reforming the sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u216	Thank you, Gregory Mikhailovich. Sit down, please. Who's from the Rabbit Committee, please? First Deputy Chairman of the Committee Ivan Alexandrovich Hare Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u217	Dear National Deputies! As I say, the people are without water and neither here nor there. Water is the largest resource of the 21st century. And it is with that understanding that we must approach this problem. What happens to water is a terrible judgment. The quality of the water is rapidly deteriorating, the previous reporter has already spoken, and I don't want to tell you what's going on, but I'm going to get your attention on one occasion. This is the construction of rivers, the valley of rivers. Especially what's happening today on Dniper. I was in the village of Domontov yesterday, the Golden District of the Cherkas region. There, people have managed to move twice in 40 years. For the first time, they were relocated to the Kremenchück watershed, and for the second time, they were essentially relocated because the gang seized the banks of the rivers, privatized the banks, prevented people from entering the meadows, and prevented people from entering the water. And that's everywhere. All the rivers. So let us think about what we do and what we leave for our children. Yesterday, I was in the village of Kropivna, again in the Golden District of the Cherkas region. This is about water supply. There are only one pipes in this village, 43 kilometers, and the village budget is 180,000. Where can they take money today to upgrade this plumbing? There's no water. So, dear friends, we need to accept this program, we need to anticipate the cost of implementing it today. But I want to tell you today that this bill that was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers is not appropriate. I ask you to accept it in the first reading, but we should rework it very well. Because this bill does not have a water supply system for rural areas. We have a state-wide water management programme, where we're talking about providing centralized drinking water supply to almost 300 rural areas, where there's an extraordinary situation with drinking water. Which one of you doesn't know what's going on in the Hersonian area, for example? There's a lot of villages out there that just don't have total water. So we have to predict in this program everything that was in other programs. However, we are scattering this around the world, and we are not solving any problem. So I think we need to make sure there's financial security to save these villages so we can give them this drinking water. We need to understand that there is no money in the village today to pay for this water supply. And here's some suggestions, and this is what Deputy Nikolaynko was giving us, so that we can bring them into this program and accept this program. I ask you very much to accept it, despite the fact that it does not fully meet any of the requirements of lawmaking. But we're going to remake it as it takes, because we have to save it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u218	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Yes, please, we have nine minutes to discuss and one minute to make a decision. Please, Puzakov. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u219	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština There is no truth, children, that the public sphere in our country has suffered a complete collapse. Serving the population today has not endured any criticism. From here on out, it's low, as you know, platability. For example, the total debt for utilities in our area in six months is 73 million. The biggest heating debt is 27 million, the water supply is 12, the water supply is 6 million. That's why Kirovgradland without heat and more without water than with water. But it concerns Kirovgradina and the fact that drinking water of questionable quality can only be consumed with overcrowded water, resulting in a high percentage of hepatitis and especially this year’s increased gastrointestinal tract disease. But this drinking water situation is of no concern to anyone. Powerful men bring water from wells for consumption, and you drink the water that is. An alarming state of water in the countryside, since there has been no water chlorination in wells for 10 years. It's without exception all the population in the area. The imported water is used in Malovski, New Ukraine, Wilshan, and other areas of the region. The cars that drive the water are not checked. Where and what water is transported to people is neither checked. These services are provided to residents of the area and the quality of the provision of water and sanitation services is not controlled. [[in quotes]] The Communist faction proposes to address the quality of water services, to improve the financial and economic situation of the enterprise, to stabilize the operation of utilities, a number of issues need to be addressed at the national level. In particular, water - service tariffs must be such as to compensate for the costs of the service undertaking. Prices should take into account the average sectoral cost of production and ensure a minimum level of profitability. If the level of profitability is not provided by government prices, the State must provide its subsidy provided that the production of the enterprise is socially necessary. Next. The tariffs for the provision of drinking water services are based on sectoral spending standards and should fully offset the operating costs and ensure the reliable operation of centralized drinking water supplies. And Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka's program as a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine says that the maximum monthly payments for utilities and quarterly payments will not exceed 10 percent of the income.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u220	Oh, dear, please. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I would like to express an immediate and substantive approach to this issue. Deeply convinced that the Drinking Water programme in the form of a law as a State-wide programme we need. From the following points. First, we are deeply convinced that for the first time such an integrated approach is being proposed on the same wobbly topic. Why? Because the problem of water supply now exists in an absolute majority of regions. I represent the Luhansk region. She's been here several times. We're in a paradoxical situation. We've got a lot of water, we've got submersibles, we've got groundwater, we've got water coming out of closed mines. On the other hand, drinking water is the most severe deficit in the Lugansk region. Therefore, we like and agree that the State-wide drinking water programme of Ukraine contains three fundamental points. First, we today have the opportunity to adopt a programme aimed at ensuring that our drinking water standards in our country are in line with European standards. That's normal, because unfortunately for us, the drinking water standards, that's the water we're talking about today, that's consistent with our standards, is actually a stone age. You can't drink that water. The next moment, the scientific and technical follow-up to this program, is also what is needed. Because today we have two-step water treatment by deposition and filtering. In the entire civilized world, there are at least three stages of release, water purification. In a number of countries, there is a seven - dimensional treatment of water, and people receive water from which they have no stomach ulcers, no stone sickness, and all that produces bad water. Next moment. Deeply convinced that we need domination. It can be argued whether it should be done by 2018, whether 5 billion is enough. But if we as a whole do not take this approach, everything else will remain a declaration that, unfortunately, will not produce results. Turning to the problems of the Luhansk region, I strongly hope that through this programme we will solve the problems of running water facilities. Or it may be that today, in the village of Gornjak Lugansk, the water supply system is on the balance of the Komsomolska mine, which is currently unable to service it, and the ten thousand working settlements are virtually without water. Next moment. I think science needs to be addressed, including mine-water treatment projects, to use it as a drink. Projects and examples are the town of Sverdlovsk Lugansk oblast, the closed Vojkova mine, 600 cubes per hour this installation provides, should be developed. In general, we are deeply convinced that we need to work on this program, that it needs to be refined into a second, third reading, and that in the first, it is said, God himself has commanded us to vote honestly for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u222	Thank you. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u223	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! I think we would do a very smart thing with you if we took advantage of this seasonal approach of human love, caring for the people of the family, the approach of generosity of Viktor Yanukovich, and planned for the following year, and in our budget, we would have to spend some small money on a Ukrainian monument that can survive at all, and that survives in these conditions that we have today. In addition to all the social problems behind this political upheaval, for the killing of journalists, for the final embodiment and handing out Ukraine by the President, we have, of course, almost forgotten the enormous problem that civilized nations, nations that are looking at tomorrow, have long cared for -- that of drinking water, more of us, Ukraine, after Chernobyl, which has polluted us Dnipro, from which 34 million Ukrainians drink water, plus water and so on. It is quite clear that today our people, our nation and our Ukrainian state are actually on the verge of disaster. And if we don't use some very decisive moments right now. Here my great friend John the Rabbit called the small villages of the Golden region. These are small villages that can still survive at the expense of some wells and so forth. And we have to talk about these giants today, just humanized giants like Lviv, who, today at a few hours in the morning and at three o'clock in the evening, turn on all the water that's gone. And that's at the time, dear colleagues, when it's absolutely incontrovertible that from the broken Lvivish already, it's already been dragged to the turkey by younger bears and so on, and today it's being exported every month one million dollars out of the tax and one million dollars out of the cash flow. What's going on is customs, where that poor lion takes the money to at least provide people with water all the time. The same in the resort Odessa. It's like there's a little bit of a level playing field right now. Because of this, of course, of the subject that stands before us today. I'm saying once again, given that Chernobyl is built in a criminally inconvenient place and built where there is no granite shield on which Ukraine stands. So you're well aware that these polluted surface waters, they might just merge with the strategic waters that we have. And then all of Europe faces such a threat. That is why I support my colleagues, both Nadrag and Hare. Of course, this should be accepted. Although this program itself is written free of charge, it is declared. She, as an empty space, would say Yanukovich, who's chasing from Donbas means here and from here they're chasing back. Because of this, it must be accepted as it is. But it should continue to be polished because, as the beautiful artist Rajevska said, "Sclerosis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, on the grounds of the vote of Nikolaynko, and we will be determined. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u225	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. I would like, on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, before voting, honourable Adam Ivanovich, to propose to chapter eight, which is called the Financial Grounding of the Program, to write down this entry: to foresee annually the government in the State Budget Act a grant or subsidy for the cost of electricity used to supply drinking water to the level of prices that are paid to the population in the future. What are we talking about? Today in the south of Ukraine, as well as in Donetsk, Lugansk, Herson, Nicholas and Odessa, and other rural councils cannot provide water today because they pay 32, 35 copies per kilowatt of electricity. It's 14-15. We must supply water at least once a day. Or today there are areas in Hersonian where water appears once a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u226	Thank you. I think it's a pretty good offer, but it's going to depend on how we vote now. If we're going to take the whole program, then we're going to take it into account. If you read first, you will be able to make adjustments. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on State-wide Water of Ukraine, registration number 5222. Please vote. [[2:02:05]] For 256 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 78, "Regions of Ukraine" - 14, Communists - 54, SDPU - 0, "Dem. Initiatives. [[using Masenka]] The People's Government is 4, Hard Ukraine is 0, National Agrarian Party is 19, Socialists are 20, Timoshenko Block is 19, Soyuz is 9, NDP, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs is 16, Center is 14, non-fractional is 9. Dear colleagues, can we accept it as a program? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u227	All right, let's get ready for the second reading. If your will is related to the second law, can we vote on it in the first reading? Can we? I then vote on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water Supply on Environmental Arms, registration number 5395. Please vote. [[14:03:31]] For 252 Decision taken. Orzhachowski. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 71, Ukraine - 15, Communist - 58, Social-Democracy - 0, Deminist and People's Government - 4, Labour Ukraine - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, Socialist - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, Union - 7, NDP - 17, Center - 14, Postfaction - 9. Orzhachowski's microphone from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u228	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovsky Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I have a request for our previous work to be taken into account that very often, the Chief Supreme Council has a mandate to consider a bill on several committees. And as far as I know on the Conciliation Council, there were arrangements that where the steering committee was considering the issue and giving the other a parallel message on its specific issues, we should also give the alternative committee a word. Thus, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government often receives such assignments, but unfortunately we cannot get the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-21-m0.u229	Dear colleagues! It is true, but not entirely, because there is a Rules that say that the committee will report the one standing first. I think everyone had the opportunity to express their thoughts today. It's nothing to be offended. We're calling it a break. The morning session is closed. Break till 4:00.
