ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:12]] A total of 411 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are being held at the morning session of the Ukrainian Government. To implement the Supreme Council's decision of 24 June, the subject of our consideration will be the government's information on the new directions for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union in connection with the enlargement of the European Union and the state of reform and legislative enforcement of the law enforcement agencies in Ukraine. You have been served with the help of this reference. In view of the fact that two issues are under consideration today, profile committees propose to reduce some of the time-limits provided for in the Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council. Proposals for a Rules of Procedure have been added to your list. So, your honors, let's move on to the issue of new directions for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union. Such rules of procedure are proposed. Statement by Minister of Economics and European Integration Mr. Mikli Ivanovich - in 10 minutes. Presentation by the first Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Mozik Aleksandra Fedorovich, who will speak in place of a minister who is on a mission. There are relevant documents on this subject. Up to 10 minutes. The answers to the written questions are 10 minutes for each reporter. And for oral questions, 15 minutes for each reporter. Presentation by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the European Integration of Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk in 5 minutes. Discussion of this issue is debate, up to 30 minutes. I mean, 45 minutes. Is there no objection? None. Then I invite you to speak with the Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac. Picker, please. Is there a Mikola Ivanovich? Dear colleagues, the Minister for Relations with the Supreme Council, informs us that the Minister of Economics and European Integration is also on a mission. Friday’s Deputy Minister will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! After the expansion of the European Union on May 1, 2004, our immediate neighbour became unprecedented in the scope and depth of integration. The only market of 25 countries that have a single foreign economic policy. The expansion of the stability and economic well-being zone in Europe is entirely in Ukraine’s national interest. And we're really glad that the divide between the west and the east. The microphone's not working.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u3	It's working, it's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u4	Our first concern was and remains the desire to prevent the automatic transfer of this border to Ukraine’s western borders. The enlargement of the European Union has been discussed. It sounded like there wasn't much prognosis. It was obvious that the accession to the EU by our closest partners and neighbours, in addition to the undeniable advantages, could result in some loss to Ukraine. In order to minimise potential damage, the government has approved and implemented a plan of action for the use of new possibilities - enlargement of the EU and prevention of its negative consequences. Today, it is premature to conclude how much loss has been avoided. However, the first results are encouraging. Despite the denunciation of free trade agreements with the Baltic countries, the expansion of the scope of effective anti-dumping measures on new member countries and other factors of the projected decline in trade and economic ties between Ukraine and the enlarged EU have not occurred. In the first half of 2004, trade with 25 countries in the Union increased by 46 percent compared to last year, reaching US$10.8 billion. Foreign direct investment from EU countries has also increased by 35 percent compared to the first half of last year. To some extent, the impact of negative factors has neutralized the decline in the average tariff in the new members of the European Union after enlargement. The average import duty rate of the candidate countries in the commodity position, which is the highest in the Ukrainian exports, was 4.24 per cent, while the EU average import tariff rate for the same commodities was 3.51 per cent. The impact of enlargement on Ukraine over the past two years has been at the centre of all joint meetings and bilateral meetings with representatives of the European Union at all levels: the Council and the Committee on Cooperation, the Trade and Investment Subcommittee. Finally, at the last 8th summit of Ukraine-EU in July in The Hague. Ukraine’s position in the negotiations would be much stronger if we were WTO members. The GAT provides for compensation for countries that have suffered losses as a result of the formation of customs unions. In addition, it would open up the prospect of entering into a free trade agreement with the EU, lifting the number of trade restrictions and so on. But in today’s status, the government has achieved much. That is: The increase in quotas for exports of certain steel products and the preservation of supplies to an expanded union of goods that are subject to anti-dumping measures within the EU, such as carbide silicon and nitrate ammonia. Yes, on June 22, 2004, an agreement was initialled, which provides for a 2004 steel quota of 607 thousand tons instead of the previous 184 and a half thousand tons. Negotiations are under way to increase the 2005 quota to at least one million tons. The EU’s trade in textiles and clothing is an example of winning and maintaining positions in the EU market. The existing agreement allowed for the abolition of the quantitative restrictions on imports into the EU of Ukrainian trade during 2001-2004, and we were given free access in practice to the European market. The results were not delayed; the export volumes of Ukrainian goods to the EU in 2003 amounted to $515 million -- more than half of all exports of textiles from Ukraine. Ukrainian manufacturers have gained experience in cooperation with European partners, many joint ventures have been created, their technical condition and quality have improved. The government is currently working on an extension of the agreement. In advance of the questions, I would like to inform you about the status of the negotiations on granting Ukraine the status of a market economy country in the context of anti-dumping cooperative legislation. During the Brussels consultations in July 2004, Eurocomisisia raised questions about the State’s involvement in the steel and chemical pricing of Ukraine and the exceptions to the application of bankruptcy laws. The Ukrainian side has given the European Commission comprehensive answers and looks forward to a positive decision. The above was about bilateral agreements in separate fields, but the main document that has been regulating our relations with the EU since 1998 is, as we know, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which extends to our bilateral relations with the new members of the Union. In the terms of the agreement, Ukraine made certain obligations that would be legally reflected in the relevant laws. Their implementation depends on the further development of our relations with the EU: both economic and political. A joint achievement of the government and the Supreme Council in this direction was the adoption in March 2004 of the Act on the Universal Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to EU Legislation. In the meantime, with the aim of implementing it, the government is developing an appropriate legal framework, changing the principles of planning, coordinating and monitoring the process, harmonising Ukrainian legislation with European legislation. We need to focus on such an important issue as the material security of Euro-integration policy. The government is working with the commission on new tools for technical assistance and application in Ukraine of those programmes that have been assigned to candidate countries. The first demonstration of a new approach was the transformation of the border cooperation program into 12 new neighborhood programs, 4 of which are directly related to Ukraine. Our joint work on the European policy and neighbourhood action plan has been a new way of working with the EU. More specifically, in the new directions of cooperation that the action plan foresees. First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. I will only point out that its implementation will contribute to Ukraine's participation in the European Union's common market and sector programmes, Ukraine's infrastructure networks, European Investment Bank loans, speeding up the harmonisation of Ukrainian laws and standards with European ones. Moreover, Europeanization, as the President said in his speech on Independence Day, has become a national idea. Of course, our relationship with the European Union is not limited to trade and technical assistance. In particular, it inspires optimism and pride for our country that the Commission has asked the EU Council to start negotiations on Ukraine's participation in the grand European project of the global satellite system, Galileo. This will not only allow Ukraine to move further. technology, as well as improving things on earth, engaging our intellectual potential, creating additional high-quality jobs, attracting investments, that's why we want European integration. To conclude, I would like to point out that today the European Union, in terms of Ukraine's economic interests, is, first of all, the largest trading partner, the trade with which is more than a third of the total volume of our external trade. And trade, I recall, gives Ukraine more than 50 percent of GDP. Secondly, the biggest foreign investor is more than 50 percent of all foreign direct investment. Thirdly, the largest donor, over a billion euros in aid since 1991. And finally, an extremely attractive market with almost half a billion people that have come close to our borders. We really need this market just to strengthen independence. Investments and assistance are needed. So, again, I quote the President as being idealists and pragmatists at the same time as Europe for the benefit of Ukraine, this is how the government understands its task under the new conditions of the enlarged EU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u5	Yes, the report is complete. Dear colleagues, one minute, please, there will be questions. We agreed that 10 minutes each for each reporter’s questions and answers. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. One question directly from the deputies in the session room, one is in writing. Please answer the letter. And please sign up for oral questions. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Okay. Please answer the letter, then the lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! The following are written questions. How does Ukraine adapt to the European Union’s legislation on milk, meat and other animal production standards in the context of the destruction of the village’s mechanization base? Today, the government has carried out a very intensive work to harmonize standards in the field of milk, meat, and other animal products. In particular, 25 milk and milk standards have been developed during 2002-2003. Today, there is work on export and dairy, sea-, fish-products to the countries of the European Union, and the current figures say that today, dairy exports are taking place to countries such as Denmark, Spain, the countries of Eastern Europe that have recently become members of the European Union. Today, a number of issues related to the harmonization of veterinary legislation are included in the plan of action that we are developing together with the European Union. And recently, the European Union opened the Ukrainian market for the export of beekeeping products, particularly honey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u7	Vladimir Yavorowski, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! It's comforting to hear about the Ukrainian route to Europe, we've been talking about this for about 10-12 years. If, in fact, this is before lunch, we're kind of turning our heads back to Europe, and after lunch we're marching somewhere in Europe. Well, yesterday I, and probably all Ukrainian citizens, heard Putin's statement, where it's legally said that Russia is actually turning into a totalitarian state, no one's going to choose anyone, no one's going to appoint Putin. Something is changing in our handwriting for our lunch in Europe, and after lunch in Eurasia, is that what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u9	Thank you. Today, as you know, the course on Euro integration is defined as strategic. This is also reflected in the President's letter to the Supreme Council, "European Choice, Conceptual Principles, Economic and Social Development Strategy." This is also indicated in the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is also reflected in Ukraine's economic, social development strategy for 2004-2015. That is, if the strategic documents that determine the direction of our economic, social development define the basic principles of our policy, they are the ones that determine the future prospects for our nation. And the statements, the ones that are happening in Russia, I think we're going to leave them. I'm not saying they don't apply. But let's leave them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u10	Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u11	The next written question. What are the prospects for Ukraine's market economy status? As I pointed out in the report, there is an extremely intensive work to be done. Today, two questions remain among the whole set of issues raised in terms of marketability or not in terms of marketability of the Ukrainian economy. This is a matter of reforming our legislation with bankruptcy. And I think this has to be our joint work: both the government and the parliament, in order to make these changes to legislation. And the next. This is a question related to non-interference with pricing and it's clear that there should also be a rather delicate and balanced policy here, because letting things go, in general, in some areas or in some of the price sectors, is going to be extremely difficult today. But if the competition legislation changes, about the company's activities, and so on, and so on, and so on, it will create the preconditions, harmonising the relevant norms with European legislation that will allow less and less interference in these processes. And today we hope that soon the European Union will give a positive answer by studying our documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Yes, Michael Loboda, the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u13	May I have a word with Radion Mikhail Kuzmich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u14	Mikhail Rodionov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u15	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear rapporteur, please answer this question: one of the requirements of joining the European Union is to adopt European standards in the social sphere, please tell us: how old will we be, or will it take us a decade to achieve at least a small social balance with the standards of European countries?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, if we normally look at this problem statically, looking at the rate of GDP growth and so on, and so on, and so on, then it's clear that this time term might be quite, quite long, but here we have to take into account that our country is still developing fairly fast ostrich processes are developing quite rapidly in all areas, and we are reforming all spheres, of course coming out of our economic situation. And the sphere of social policy in the European Union is also being reformed. At the same time, as we approach the European Union in determining our priorities, we understand clearly what time, finance, resources, and so forth is needed. With a clear focus on European integration, we can get support from the European Union, because obviously if we do it on our own, it's going to take a pretty long time. If we get the same support that the countries get even the first wave, I think we can get through this time extremely quickly. And you can look again at the level that is now at the level that the countries of the second wave are at. This is Bulgaria, Romania, which I don't think is much more advanced than we have. I mean, I think we're looking with optimism, and this is reflected in the measures planned for the coming years and the social orientation of the budget and the government's commitment to addressing the pressing social problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u17	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u18	What issues in trade between Ukraine and the European Union have been resolved in the last year. These include: the trade in steel products, the trade in cars, the expert restrictions on scrap metal, livestock, leather, sunflower seeds, the licensing of exports of coke and iron raw materials. I already said, I already answered, I think in my report on the issue of steel trade. I would like to point out that in the field of automobile construction, the issue remains a problem. Again, changes to legislation will be needed. In the action plan, we found that formula with the European Union that allows us to solve this issue in the context of our accession to the World Trade Organization. That is, Ukraine makes a commitment, gradually amending the legislation to bring about the benefits that are granted, or the preferences, the discrimination that sometimes exists in applying those or other measures, gradually nullifies it. As for export restrictions on exports of a whole range of different goods. In line with WTO rules, we should gradually reduce. With the European Union, we've also come up with the formulas when we're talking about a gradual reduction, once again, not a complete elimination, but a gradual reduction. And that's why we're going to have to work from the point of view of legislation for these arrangements today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u19	Yes. Jaroslav Suhi, "Trudova Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u20	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhiy, Zaporozhye city, the deputy faction of the "Trudova Ukraine" political party. Please tell me two short questions. First. Whether the government, your ministry, is planning to take any measures to protect the internal market, the financial market as a result of a violent influx into our car stations, food stores, and markets of happy, united Europeans. From Poland, Germany, who will sweep away everything in their path without a visa abroad? That's the first question. And the second question. How do you even appreciate this situation when it's at cheap prices, because there's a lot higher prices. Is it positive for our host or negative?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u21	Well, when we talk about protecting the internal market, we usually talk about protecting against the flow of imported goods. And here we're taking a variety of measures to protect against dumped imports, subsidized imports, mass imports and so on and so forth. When we talk about what goods are buying, we can talk about what is possible in those or other sectors of imbalances or price imbalances in those, or other markets. And it's clear that this is where you have to work, because the price imbalance is going to constantly cause and cause these or other crises today, and they're either showing up in the oil market, or in the grain market, or in other markets. And of course, as long as we don't gradually equalize the price levels to roughly what our neighbors have, we're going to have these problems all the time. At the same time, all these issues are related to social protection issues because it is not possible to raise prices simply without addressing social protection issues, higher wages. As far as the financial sector is concerned, once again, when we're talking about the WTO negotiations and the liberalisation of those or other sectors, we're talking about the liberalisation of financial markets today. Because if we have the ability to take loans today, or our businesses, under one percent, and our neighbours in Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic under a much lower percentage, it's clear that what kind of competition you can talk about here and what kind of protection tariff or other you can talk about. That's why we need to do a lot of work here, we need to think about whether it's worth it, and today we're looking at Parliament, and we've recently considered the Foreign Banks Branches Act. At present, there is also a question in discussions with the European Union about the possibility of opening branches of insurance companies in some future, that is, we should develop our financial market by stimulating competition. This will allow us to balance all or reduce the distortions that exist in our market today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u22	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. You have already taken the time of the next speaker. First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Alexander Fedorovich, is invited to attend. Please, Alexandre Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like, first of all, to express my gratitude to the Supreme Council for the decision under the Government's Day: "The State of Implementation of Ukraine's European Integration and the definition of a new perspective in this strategic plane under conditions that have arisen since the enlargement of the EU." It is now with full responsibility to say that on May 1, 2004, Ukraine was not surprised. The government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, as well as other central authorities, have made a great deal of efforts to prepare properly for the challenges that our country can bring to the interests of our state in a neighbourhood with an enlarged EU. In doing so, I will note that, in accordance with, inter alia, the European Choice strategy, which was based on the Ukrainian President's letter to the Supreme Council in 2002, the government's work is guided by the need to achieve two main objectives. First. Creating conditions for the most painless transition to co-operation with the enlarged EU and, in particular, with neighbouring countries. In diplomatic language, this goal is put into the term “warning and minimizing the possible negative consequences of the enlargement of the European Union”. My second objective would be to provide Ukraine with a strategic perspective for integration into the European Union. This means creating the right prerequisites for deepening integration with the EU in the commercial, economic, humanitarian, socio-cultural spheres, as well as in the area of security and defence, with a gradual exit to the plane of political integration. This combination of a twofold challenge with a view to achieving tactical and strategic goals is based on Ukraine’s diplomatic efforts in a Euro-integration direction. Let me take a closer look at the three main elements that characterize the political dimension of our dialogue with the European Union today. This is the preparation of a joint plan for cooperation in justice and home affairs, as well as cooperation in European policy and security. Let me remind you that the legal basis on which cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union is based today remains the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. Not all the positions of the agreement have been fully implemented. At the same time, however, it must be kept in mind that in a number of areas our interaction with the EU has already exceeded the scope of the agreement. Therefore, it is logical to go to a qualitatively new level of relations with the European Union with a legal basis that would be the basis of a so - called, strengthened agreement. I would, however, like us to have unity in understanding the prospects for further movement in relation to the EU. The success of Ukraine on this path, together with the possibility of strengthening the agreement, will be assessed on the basis of the results of the implementation of the existing Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. In this regard, I would like to stress our shared responsibility, the need to unite the efforts of the government and the parliament, particularly in such an important component of the agreement as the adaptation of legislation. An important component of short-term work will be the joint action plan "Ukraine-EU". An analysis of the economic component of this document has already been made in the presentation by the First Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs and European Integration of Walleria. On Fridays, focus on the political dimension of the action plan. It is well known that in mid-June this year the Council of the European Union approved a strategic document and a report on Ukraine, which together with the future plan of action "Ukraine-EU" will form a package of EU documents on Ukraine developed within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy. European neighbourhood policy, from the point of view of its developers, should become a model for an enlarged EU relationship with the countries surrounding it. At the same time, the EU has repeatedly stressed the different nature and orientation of neighbourhood policies and enlargement policies. Ukraine comes from a slightly different perception of European neighbourhood policy and the joint action plan that we are offered. It's not important to us how much the plan of action of Ukraine-EU fits into the concept of the European neighbourhood. From our point of view, it's a fairly controversial concept, and how effective this document will be in achieving the strategic objectives of Ukraine's integration. Position. The recent EU Constitution provides sufficient legal basis for European states such as Ukraine to apply for accession to the European Union. Of course, if certain conditions are met and the criteria are met. We come from the fact that diversification, added value and shared development. the development and implementation of a practical tool for the European Neighbourhood Policy of an action plan that should be individual to each neighbouring country and can be effectively used by the Ukrainian side to make practical progress towards the European Union and European standards. The plan will primarily have economic orientation and will contribute to the gradual transformation of relations between Ukraine and the European Union from cooperation to integration. Five rounds of negotiations were held today with representatives of the European Commission on the preparation of the "Ukraine-EU" action plan. The conceptual orientation and meaningful completion of this document were discussed at the highest political level during the last summit of "Ukraine-EU", which took place in early July of this year in Asia. As a result of hard and purposeful work, it was possible to reach the final stage of agreeing to the draft action plan. At the same time, work on several important positions continues. In the course of the negotiations, the fundamental point for us was that the plan should not be a simple systematization of existing cooperation directions, but should provide for actions aimed at qualitatively increasing relationships in all spheres and contain the maximum number of elements of cooperation inherent in the enlargement process. At the same time, there is currently no consensus within the European Union to give Ukraine a clear signal of membership. That is why we are trying to give the plan the most practical direction and to raise urgent questions about Ukraine's approach to the EU. The draft plan lays down that its successful implementation should provide for the establishment of new contractual relations between Ukraine and the EU, such as the conclusion of an enhanced agreement. The final parameters of such an agreement will be shared with the results of the implementation of the action plan. I would also like to highlight the following arrangements that have been made in the draft action plan. This is a definition of how to create a free trade zone between Ukraine and the EU and where appropriate consultations are held. In fact, the economic part of the plan contains a set of measures that will still need to be taken in the context of preparations for the creation of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the EU. I would like to stress that, as a matter of principle, Ukraine’s membership in the World Trade Organization is an important moment to create such a zone. And as already here, in this room today, it has been stressed that if Ukraine's membership in the WTO had been complete today, it would be possible to clearly define practical steps towards creating a free trade area between Ukraine and the EU. Next. Initiation of a constructive dialogue on visa facilitation between Ukraine and the EU, the consent of the European Commission to provide systemic support from the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation. The implementation of the Action Plan will contribute to Ukraine's involvement in the EU's common market, the European Union's sectoral programmes, particularly in the fields of science, education, ecology, energy conservation, the development of energy and transport networks in Ukraine, the involvement of the European Investment Bank, the acceleration of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation and production standards to EU legislation and standards. I would also like to point out that our relations with EU countries will not be limited to the framework of the action plan. Ukraine is reporting and will continue to make considerable efforts to develop bilateral relations with EU Member States and to promote the interests of our country in those countries. The development of regional and cross-border cooperation is also an important aspect of cooperation. Such cooperation is expected to be a key element in deepening the relationship between Ukraine and the enlarged EU. One of the priorities of Ukraine’s European integration is to increase cooperation with the European Union in the area of justice and internal affairs. Cooperation in the fight against organized crime, illegal migration of human beings and narcotic drugs, and the continuation of the fight against international terrorism remain extremely relevant for Ukraine. This definition of priorities is perfectly understandable, since it is not possible to clearly distinguish between internal and external security today. This reinforces the importance of existing collective security systems and raises questions about the need for a common migration policy, especially at the regional level. That's why we think that the issue of combating illegal migration needs to be addressed jointly, and the process of making agreements for the region's administration needs to be synchronized with the aim of creating a common readmission space. The active participation of our state in the implementation of European security and defence plays an important role in enhancing cooperation between Ukraine and the EU. Financial and technical assistance is also under constant government control.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u25	I'm done. The honourable national deputies, as noted above, are today the main, practical sums of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries and offices in the European integration direction. The European Union is now experiencing a complex and sometimes contradictory phase of internal transformation and a rethinking of its own place and role in today's foreign policy coordination system, which is a major challenge to our task. However, time is not right for Ukraine. It is also important for us to produce an accurate and correct interaction algorithm with the EU, with a clear awareness of our country's priorities. The EU integration course for Ukraine is non-alternative. It shows that we are supported by all our neighbors. And sooner or later, Ukraine will reach its goal. Therefore, it is now important to make the most of all the opportunities available to do so in the context of consistent realism and pragmatism in defending Ukraine's interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. And please, in writing, Alexander Fedorovich, give an answer. On the letter until you sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u27	So, first question. There are two similar questions, so I'd like to answer two questions right away. The introduction of a visa regime with Ukraine's neighbouring countries in the Western border after the enlargement of the EU has led to a number of problems for Ukrainian citizens. How does this relate to Ukraine’s European integration aspirations? And the second question. On January 30, 2004, at the eighth session of the first part of the PARE session, recommendation 16-48 was adopted regarding the report of the representative of Ukraine of the Ukrainian delegation to Italy, Sibka, the consequences of the enlargement of Europe for the freedom of movement of citizens of the States members of the Council of Europe. What appropriate steps has the Government of Ukraine taken in connection with the adoption of this document in the light of the de-liberalisation of the visa regime by EU member states regarding Ukrainian citizens? The issue of the negative impact of the enlargement of the EU in the field of foreign travel of Ukrainian citizens, as well as the need to liberalise the visa regime with the EU, is constantly on the agenda of the daily dialogue between Ukraine and the EU. In parallel, the visa facilitation routes were being handled with the new member countries of the European Union. In this context, bilateral agreements have been concluded between Ukraine and Poland, Slovakia and Lithuania to simplify the regime of mutual travel between citizens, which provides for the granting of visa-free travel to citizens of these countries, visa-free travel to Ukraine in exchange for visa-free travel for Ukrainian citizens, the preservation of the visa regime for a wide range of categories of Ukrainian citizens and the application of the simplified procedure for issuing visas. Negotiations are under way today on the arrangements for such agreements with the Czech Republic and Slovenia. Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, along with other ministries, is also carrying out work on the implementation in Ukraine of a system of measures to improve entry control, the exit of foreigners from countries with potential risks, such as providers of illegal migrants, in accordance with CCA standards, including biometric parameters for the identification of a person. In addition, with the recommendations of the Council of Europe in the field of migration policy in Ukraine, Ukraine signed the European Treaty of Rules on 18 February this year. That regulates the movement of persons by inter-State members of the Council of Europe in 1957. At present, action is being taken to make it effective. Ukraine's participation in this treaty will strengthen our state's position in negotiations with the EU on visa liberalisation, and will enable us to participate more actively in the formation of a pan-European international free movement mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u28	Thank you. Only I ask, Alexander Fedorovich, to answer more quickly, because there are a lot of questions for you. Here's the workman.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u29	Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u30	Mikoli Tomenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u31	Victor Yushchenko's Block, Mikola Tomenko. Alexander Fedorovich, two questions. First question. As head of the Parliamentary Committee, I am informed by the representatives of the regional radio organizations that they have recently begun to receive texts from the President's Administration, where Ukraine's integration is called the European Union's biggest disaster in Ukraine's history. The arguments are absolutely, well, as I would say, so funny and invalid. Do you know about this and what reaction the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to the European principle. The position of the President's Administration? And second position. Please clarify the situation. The chairman of the President's Administration said that we have Ukrainian leadership and government to maintain friendly relations with those countries that sponsor international terrorism. What can you, as a representative of the Ministry, say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u32	Thank you. As for the first question. We don't know about any of the dungeons you've been talking about. So I'm going to limit myself to that answer. As for the second question. Ukraine has always occupied and continues to take a principled stand on the issue of combating international terrorism. We come from the fact that there can be no excuse for any terrorist act, any form or method of international terrorism. And Ukraine is known to be actively involved in the fight against this evil today. So I think that those statements you said were completely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u33	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u34	Letters. "What changes does the government plan to make to the EU strategy in relation to its enlargement? The effects of the enlargement of the EU on Ukraine are generally negative. The status of the EU’s neighbour is demeaning. What are the prospects for Ukraine’s development and its foreign policy and external economic orientations?".. I would like to say that Ukraine’s acquisition of an association and, later, full membership in the European Union, integration into the family of European peoples has been and remains the top priority of our foreign policy. Therefore, I think it would be wrong to say that the effects of the enlargement of the EU on Ukraine are usually negative. A comprehensive study of this issue shows that some transitional difficulties will take place in the short term, but during this period Ukraine will receive a number of advantages in the area of trade and economic cooperation, for example, Ukraine will benefit from a reduction from nine to four percent of the total customs tariff trade with the new EU member states, which will in the future contribute to integration into political structures. Also important in this connection is the "Ukraine-EU" action plan, which I have already informed and which is to become an effective mechanism for cooperation between Ukraine and the EU for the next three years. The successful implementation of the action plan will contribute to the transition between Ukraine and the EU to a qualitatively new level, the gradual integration of our state into the economic and social structures of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u35	Please, Hellcat, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u36	Pecklusenko, 84 constituency, Zaporozhye district. Lugovsk electoral district. My constituencies at the meetings on this issue often say, "Well, we don't have to go there." So I would ask you and the Ministry of the Economy to speak in the press to explain why we need to go there. That's the first question. Second question. We are well aware that the main indicators for joining the EU are the standard of living of the people and the level of democratization of society. As you believe, what priority laws should be adopted by the Supreme Council, especially on the second issue, the level of democratization of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u37	Thank you. And the Ministry of Economics, we're trying, and the government as a whole, we're trying to do a lot of explaining work and we're doing it to show what's waiting for Ukraine if we become a member of the European Union in the future. I agree with you that this work obviously needs to be further improved and activated, and your observation we take into account, to be done. With regard to the issues to be adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament. Well, as far as the economic part is concerned, these are the laws that will help us to become a member of the World Trade Organization as soon as possible. A number of laws that are now under consideration by the Supreme Council are devoted to the further development of democracy. These laws, too, are likely to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u38	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u39	"What is the state of preparation of the Ukraine-EU action plan?" I partly answered that question in the course of the talk. All I'm going to say is that today the draft plan of action is at the final stage of agreement. This is a document that experts from Ukraine and the European Commission are working on today. Following agreement at the export level, the action plan will be negotiated in both the European Union and Ukraine. As far as Ukraine is concerned, it is primarily the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the Council on European and Euro-Atlantic integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u40	Please, Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u41	May I have Matthew Valentine Grigorovitch, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u42	Matthew’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Alexander Fedorovich, and Minister for European Integration, and you, in your report very, very much, I would say, speak boldly about the expansion of Ukraine's lines of cooperation with the European Union and vice versa. For this reason, I have to ask you both a request and a question. The request is to look, that is, to look at your diplomatic bed, up there, where you can see it's completely empty. This raises a question. How do you, in particular, appreciate that not one of the diplomatic representatives of European countries or countries that are part of the EU that are working in Ukraine today has shown interest in this issue? Yet, what is involved is what you consider to be a challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u44	Thank you. That's a very good question. I want to say that I am as sorry as you are, and we will necessarily address this question to the diplomatic corps, particularly the representatives of the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u45	Please have a written question, Alexandre Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u46	It's a written question. What are the results of the seventh meeting of the Council on cooperation between Ukraine and the EU and the eighth summit in The Hague? In answer to this question, I will note that the main sums of both are summarized as follows. First. The parties' intentions for a joint action plan for Ukraine-EU have been confirmed. The other one. We have been assured by the EU of its readiness to support Ukraine on its accession to the WTO. Third. The EU expressed its readiness to recognise the full market status of Ukraine's economy as soon as two issues were resolved by the Ukrainian side, namely bankruptcy legislation and state price regulation. Four. The EU-Ukraine Action Plan on Cooperation in Science and Technology has been adopted and the agreement signed between Ukraine and the EU on Ukraine's participation in the EU police mission in the Republic of Macedonia has been signed. Fifth. An agreement has been reached on the signing soon of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU on the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Six. The EU has expressed its readiness to continue to support our state on the issue of increasing nuclear security. Finally, seventh. It was agreed that the negotiation process for the conclusion of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU on trade in certain steel products would be completed as soon as possible. Today, this covenant is initialled and is preparing to be signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u47	Please, Nightshenko, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u48	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, Trudova Ukraine. Dear reporter! I am one of the people's deputies who has consistently supported the government's policy of co-operation with the European Union, and I have also supported Ukraine's entry into free economics. But these notable shifts in the improvement of such issues as the conditions of cross-border movement, the conditions of joint management, the conditions of pricing are not felt. And it's hard to answer specific questions from my constituents. So that's the question. What is concrete for the average citizen of Ukraine, the electorate in human relations, the economy, and what are the new directions for cooperation in solving these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Integration into the European Union is not an end in itself. Integration into the European Union is increasing our internal standards in the field of economics, market economy, civil society, democracy and human rights. So when we're doing integration work, we're doing a whole series of, if we can say so, homework so that our people's living conditions and conditions, human rights standards, democracy are getting closer to Europeans. It is also known that the European Union is actively supporting its candidates. Member States and those countries that have joined the European Union. First of all, it's financial support, as well as support for economic, social reform and so on. So I think that's what can explain the need for our integration into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u50	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u51	Is the Government planning to establish a system of joint coordination and operational response between the border and law enforcement services of the neighbouring countries that have become members of the EU as soon as possible. With a view to establishing a system of joint coordination and rapid response between Ukraine's border and law enforcement agencies and its neighbours with Ukraine's new EU member states, consultation points are planned to be established with a view to ensuring coordination between border and law enforcement services. In the near future, a protocol will be signed between the administration of the Ukrainian State Border Service and the Chief Border Command of the Republic of Poland on the creation of consultation points on the Ukrainian-Polish border. A consultation on the making of similar agreements is also held with Slovakia and Hungary. Some other measures are also being taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u52	Yes. Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u53	A fast, socialist faction of Ukraine. Alexander Fedorovich, thank you for answering my written question, but I would like to hear some details from you. The fact is that this report, which I have heard from at the Council of Europe, I have been working on for almost a year, has produced a large array of materials available to the Council of Europe in order to reduce this: reduced treatment of our citizens when they receive visas or passports. I have two questions: how do you cooperate with other countries, in order to: first, maybe pass on to increase our consulates, or windows in these consulates to get visas. And the second question is, are there any jobs today about lowering the mutual price of visas, and today there's an opportunity by email to get, so, visa permits, what's written in the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that this is indeed a question that is in the constant field of view of the Ministry and our consular service. It is unforgivable. In particular, because the European Union as a whole, the countries of the European Union, as you know, take a rather hard stand on the issue of visa policy. Our efforts in the negotiation process are aimed at making the existing visa regime more liberal and in the long run, in the long run, but still in the long run, so that our citizens can enter the countries of the European Union without visas in the future. In this context, we are also working actively with the new members of the European Union. And you know that recently, in the context of your question, a significant increase in the consular presence of Poland in Ukraine, a number of consulates were opened, an expansion of the consular presence of the Republic of Hungary. We also work with other countries so that our citizens can get visas as easily as possible. In other words, we are in, believe me, a constant negotiation process on this issue. With regard to the cost of the visa, it is the Ukrainian side that always comes up with proposals to reduce the cost. What some visas cost dearly is the position of that country, for example, in a particular country, that that particular country has set a high level of visa fees for us. So we can't just not set them up, and there's this situation. So we're negotiating with our citizens to cut visa fees, and we're ready to reduce the cost of visas on a reciprocal basis for foreign nationals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the European Integration Committee Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk to report. Yes. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! With the enlargement of the European Union, Ukraine-EU relations are starting a new phase. A quality new one, given the proximity of the geographical front. Ukraine faces new opportunities, but at the same time new challenges. That's why the Committee on European Integration has proposed a government day with an appropriate agenda to figure out how we use new opportunities and how to protect ourselves from negative challenges. First, a new element of the plan of action of Ukraine-EU will emerge in the contractual provision of our relations with the European Union. The areas of regulation will fall within the scope of the existing Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. What is this document? A tool to shift relations from the level of cooperation to full integration, as Ukraine or the tool wants, be it deepened, but only cooperation with elements of economic integration, but without any prospects for political integration in the future. The difference in conceptual vision. This is one of the reasons why the plan of action is delayed. The development of relations with the EU within the framework of European neighbourhood policy will not only mean the emergence of new opportunities but also poses a threat to the permanent consolidation of the so-called neighbourhood status for Ukraine. Therefore, the inclusion in the draft action plan of Ukraine-EU of the Ukrainian proposal for the possibility of signing a new reinforced agreement with the results of the implementation of the action plan instead of the European Union's proposed European Neighbourhood Agreement can be welcomed. The issue of visa facilitation and the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union remain fundamental to us. These issues are closely linked to the negative socio-economic consequences of the enlargement of Ukraine. First, it is a challenge for Ukrainian citizens to cross borders with an enlarged EU. Among the main reasons for the introduction of the visa regime are the introduction of restrictive measures on access to European Union labour markets, the introduction of EU standards on border crossing control. Yes, in the first months after the introduction of the car, the number of citizens crossing the border decreased by 40 percent in the Ukrainian-Polish area and 28 percent in the Ukrainian-Hungarian area. In this regard, the draft action plan provides for the establishment of a prospective visa dialogue. However, the EU has a cooler view of Ukraine's proposal for mutual visa facilitation and the development of a road map to establish a visa-free regime. The second is the deterioration of the trade and economic relations between Ukraine and the countries of the enlarged EU. Unfortunately, we have not received accurate calculations from the government on this issue. However, the executions are because, after enlargement, the free trade zone with the Baltic countries has ceased to exist, the supply of steel industry products has been reduced as a result of the spread of quotas for trade with new EU members and EU anti-dumping measures on Ukraine have been extended to the new member countries of the European Union. The issue of granting Ukraine market-economy status remains open. From the distribution of government materials, we can see that there is still a long way to go to a positive solution. However, the real stumbling block on Ukraine's European integration is the unsatisfactory introduction in our country of democratic values of building civil society, ensuring the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is all that constitutes the political bloc of Copenhagen's membership criteria in the European Union. This is particularly evident in the heat of the electoral race when Ukrainian society and the whole world fail to identify the numerous violations caused by the use of administrative resources for the benefit of the candidate for power, attempts to discredit opposition candidates. All of this does not allow us to say that the implementation of the future plan of action of Ukraine-EU has been set up in its project to ensure democratically holding presidential elections in line with the OSCE standards will be recognised as successful. Despite its commitment to neighbouring Poland in the European Union, the government decided on July 5 to reverse the use of the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline. This is because the project item, according to the action plan item, refers to the development of infrastructure for the diversification of oil and gas supplies, which should include the Odessa-Broda-Poland pipeline. On July 15, the President of Ukraine issued a decree amending the position of the Military Doctrine, which was in preparation for Ukraine's membership in the European Union and NATO. In addition, the topic of Ukraine’s membership in the so-called EP is actively being implemented, which is contrary to Ukraine’s national interests. Finally. September 10th last Friday
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u57	Yes, please finish. Just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u58	Prime Minister Janukovic, in an interview with the English newspaper Financial Times, stated that Kiev had decided not to make any promises of EU membership to Ukraine. There is a question of how this is in line with the stated strategic course on European Euro-Atlantic integration, how this is incorporated into the President's message on European integration. In the same article, the Prime Minister states that the idea of joining the EU has been declared in the past. However, nothing specific has been accomplished. And the question is, has the government applied for membership in the European Union? No! No! All of this shows that the Ukrainian leadership is inconsistent with the foreign policy policy course. Ukraine’s European integration should be a conscious choice of Ukrainian society and power, not of political trade and conjuncture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u59	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, statements by representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Profiles have been completed. Let's get to the debate. Please show a list of who logged in. I remind you that according to tradition on Government Day, we give the first opportunity to speak to the factions and MPs for five minutes. After that, if we have time left, three minutes in a row may participate in the discussion of national MPs. Let's take 50 minutes to take a break. The word from the Socialist faction has Boki. He's got a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs to prepare for. [[I'm afraid my last name is closed.]] Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u60	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the new directions of cooperation with the European Union are usually necessary both for reflection and for moving towards new high technologies and for the political advancement of the state. But there are things that are not new and without solutions that Europe cannot see as its ears. And we socialists -- they're very concerned. At a meeting of the Committee on European Integration, I asked Mr. Novotsky: "Will the European Union accept a Ukrainian cow in its ranks?".. Then the question caused confusion, and the answer was tedious. Yes, we are preparing for European standards and so on. But that was the answer of the office board. We're obviously going to be doomed to work "Ukrainian cow" only for internal consumption. Europe will not want our milk, cheese, and that is not its fault. Today’s regime has put animal production on the sidelines of the world’s production. Europe needs only high-quality milk, which has been made mechanically, and under the Kuchma regime, Ukraine has broken down mechanized complexes, moved cows into rural courtyards, where no machinery is known. I'm not talking about veterinary service anymore, et cetera. In talking about European integration, we don't tell the people about such specific things, and they're not from the second, they're from the first row. We have to tell people honestly that it's not Europe's fault that it's not waiting for us, but that the Ukrainian authorities are alienating us from their short-term agrarian policy of Europe. What do I have to say? The pharaoh of internal politics cannot be transferred to foreign policy. Our beautiful plans to move to Europe are resisting the totally stupid internal reformation that leads our economy to degradation. European integration is something that Ukraine cannot survive, because living in the world, being free of it, without trading with the world, we're going to fail. But to move to the world, we need to move forward at home. And we're pulling the village into a hole, and we're saying that it's a scratch, and I'm sorry for what Europe needs. I'm not talking about social standards here. What could be a movement to Europe if we shut down hospitals and schools if people are deprived of treatment and learning if we are hungry and cold. Mr. Novotsky’s optimism is unlikely to change this situation, let us not deceive ourselves or Europe. That's the point of my performance. There is no alternative to Euro-integration, but it's not a process that can be thrown in hats. In addition to adapting our legislation to Europeans, you need to make sure that the economy and the social sphere are fundamentally European. So far, we're alfrocanizing it. The standards of Burkina Faso and Liberia appear to be closer to our authority. And it's tragic. We don't have to talk here, we have to act here. Without change of power, without change of power, all our wonderful purposes are doomed. I deliberately bypassed the political aspect of the problem, I mean the democratic standards of Europe, everything here is clear. We are drawn to them like corn roots and the Burkina Faso sewers to our straw roofs and toilets. Let's at least deal with the problems of Ukrainian schools and hospitals, let's reopen rural clubs and libraries, because without them, we're going to go to Europe with the roar of today's regime and shame and shamelessness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u61	Yes, please, from the faction of the People's Democratic Party, the Industrialists, entrepreneurs, Shevchuk, followed by Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u62	As you know, according to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the definition of the principles of internal and external politics is being carried out by the Ukrainian Parliament. According to article 106 of the Constitution, the President of our nation is responsible for external political activities. And by its Decree, Presidential Decree of 29 November 2003, number 1387 actually redesigned the structure of the administration of our state's external relations. Almost a year as a result of this Decree is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor is the Ministry of Economics on matters of Euro-integration the principal institutions of executive power in this area. The Chief Authority for Foreign Policy of the President’s Administration has become a higher institution for them. Today, this structure has the right to coordinate all activities in the foreign policy sphere carried out by the ministries and the diplomatic missions. It is given the right to control the activities of diplomatic service, a specific service that should be based on the experience, skills, and expertise of diplomatic service professionals. In addition, according to the President's decree, any staff assignment to the posts of directors and representatives of structural units, ambassadorial advisers, diplomatic advisers today is not approved without agreement with the President's Administration. So today, I think it would be more than just the representatives of the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics. They're just performers, and they're kind of high-ranking. And this is an X diplomat from the Presidential Administration, who should actually be responsible for the failure of Ukraine's European choice. I would like to remind you that, according to the external economic strategy of Ukraine set out in the President's 2002 European Election, it was envisaged that last year -- Ukraine's acquisition of WTO membership, this year -- the signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, this year -- the conclusion of the negotiation process for the creation of a free trade zone between the EU and Ukraine. And this list can be continued. But instead of a European integration strategy, we have witnessed a reversal of Ukraine's foreign policy towards Euro-Asian space, the creation of the EU, which means, as we have all come to understand after the tragic events in North Ossetia, and the creation of a single terrorist space. Instead of involving our nation in the creation of the principles of collective European security, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine is changing the Ukrainian military doctrine by removing the EU thesis as the ultimate goal of European choice. Today, the government’s view of geopolitics fits into the circle of a fairly primitive statement that has already been mentioned. A statement of a plan that sounds like "Donbass near Russia," and that's what it says. And it's as if in a mockery after the changes to the Military Doctrine, President Putin of Russia has publicly granted permission to our state to Euro-Inclusion in the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, three days ago, the mainstream TV channels showed the story when two Kharkiv boys sent $100 to President Putin for the Beslan children they had been collecting for a long time to participate in the European children's competitions in Poland. [["First", "1+1", "Inter"]] This is certainly a heartwarming story that reveals the generosity of the souls of young Ukrainians who donated their journey to Europe, taking into account this tragedy. But on a large scale, we also have to admit that we pay our neighbors for our isolation on the world stage. Today’s hearing will be of little importance. We all understand that very well. Today, not only ministers who are responsible for this direction have come to report to Parliament, but anyone from the diplomatic corps. Perhaps in the decision, in the determination, we should simply confirm the complete failure of the European integration goals that are being implemented in recent times. And to get back to this important issue, we have to go to the next session when there's a new face of power when the organizers of the European and World Summits don't have the brains behind which the alphabet is used to deploy the heads of the delegation when individual world politicians simply don't want to sit next to Ukrainian representatives. Dear colleagues, meeting the Copenhagen conditions for accession to the EU on the issue of democracy, the democratization of society does not need funds, but requires a new political will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Alexeyev, the Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! My speech has caused a painful problem for a large part of our society, namely, dragon action in relation to our citizens on the side of the consular institutions, a number of Ukraine's European Union, the United States, Canada, the Czech Republic and so on can continue this list. As they say in the East, as long as you don't say halva, there's no salt in your mouth. So when the President and the government talk about the European perspective of Ukraine, the Ukrainians who decided to go to this Europe for different reasons are not better off. And this is a real attitude, unfortunately, towards Ukraine on the side of the European Union. Declining the demand for a stack of papers, the reckless treatment of consular officials with our citizens, the tremendous percentage of refusals to issue visas, and so forth, all sparks the righteous indignation of our citizens. I don't think it's a secret that there are even average prices for unofficial services. For example, to go to the consulates of most European Union countries, these are prices of 30 to 100 euros, to fill out a questionnaire of 50 dollars, to register with the Italian Consulate on the phone, cost 150 euros and so forth. This attitude toward our citizens is linked to the desire of developed countries to limit the flow of illegal migrants, as they say. It is not a secret, too, that for most Europeans Ukraine is a third - world country. And the thought of us may be offensive, but as the saying goes, "There's nothing foaming on the mirror," as they say. Kilometers can be seen every day at the embassies, whose consular records allow the entire nation to be ignored. These are embassies, I can tell you, FRN, U.S.A., Canada, Czech Republic, others. And the Italian Embassy in Kiev isn't what you get -- it's impossible to call. What about Ukraine, what do we do in response? On the contrary, as they say, politics is, "All the flags are in our house." In December 1997, we allow the European Union’s shipowners to enter Ukraine without a visa. Even more in 2000, we cancel the need to invite all citizens of the European Union and a number of other countries: Switzerland, Japan, and so on. We're taking another step: we're literally opening borders because we're able to get visas directly at Borispol Airports, Odessa, Simferopol Airport, and this summer at Donetsk Airport, as the most tourist center in the country, where tourists can only be found in local football clubs. This year we joined, as Alexander Fedorovich Motsik has already said, the European Agreement on the Movement of Persons among the Council of Europe Member States since 13 December 1957. The purpose of this agreement is to simplify the travel of citizens of participating countries. But we didn't get anything out of it in practice by staying on board Europe. We were told that we were behind an iron curtain, and today we seem to be behind iron blinds. Everyone knows that it is estimated that about seven million of our fellow countrymen were forced to go abroad to seek employment and a better destiny there. Most of them work there as slaves under illegal conditions, getting pennies for their work threatening deportation. And it's not their fault, it's the result of the so-called economic transformations of President Kuchma's reforms. I would like to emphasize that the Presidential candidate for Peter Simonnck's programme provides for concrete measures to create 1 million jobs, especially for young people, so that our boys and girls will work for their country, not for a foreign uncle. Every country that respects itself must protect its citizens wherever they are. And to respond adequately to the actions of other countries if we are still a state, not a banana republic. I demand, as a national deputy, that the Government take urgent adequate measures, namely, to cancel visa-free entry into Ukraine to diplomats of EU member states and the possibility of issuing visas at the Ukrainian border. Second, to request an invitation for visas from all without excluding citizens of the countries with whom the visa regime exists. Third, to apply the same terms for the processing of applications for visas: one or two months to act on behalf of our citizens. It's about reviewing all of our visa policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u65	Thank you, this is the People's Deputy Nadrag, the Union's deputy faction. Prepare Cassianov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u66	Respectable colleagues, the basic document governing the relationship between Ukraine and the EU, is the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. The agreement ratified Ukraine in 94, entered into force in 98, for a 10-year term. First impression. Unfortunately, our European partners have always had enough claims to comply with the terms of the agreements by the Ukrainian side. As well as implementing the provisions of our own European Union Integration Strategy, we have clearly delayed. Ukraine is also almost also far from intermediate targets for the EU, from associated membership and from the establishment of a free trade zone as well as 10 years ago. At least an area of free trade within the single economic space of the EPA, despite all the difficulties, looks more realistic. In public terms, Western and Russian factors differ both in substance and in form. In fact, the Western factor is a factor of perspective. The West is a strategic horizon. Ukraine wants to be part of a civilized, prosperous Europe. The Russian factor or the Eastern factor is more specific. This is our economic interests today, because accession to the EU is very far away, and today Ukraine and Ukraine are more interested in low commodity prices, more free access to Russian and, in general, European markets. Although we have signed a protocol on mutual access to markets in goods and services with the European Union, Ukraine is not only not yet part of the WTO, but is still not recognised by the European Union as a market economy. It is not surprising that we are part of the first wave of EU initiatives in the neighbourhood, but without a certain prospect of joining the European Union in the foreseeable future. In Ukraine's foreign trade, the EU's share rose from 13 per cent to 25 per cent from 1995 to 2003. However, the expectations that the membership of the 10 new members of the European Union will be large and, consequently, the market for Ukraine will be greater are more than optimism. I'd say so. It's kind of premature. In general, the first stages of the loss of the Ukrainian economy are estimated at Euro350-370 million annually, with negative factors for EU expansion. At the same time, according to some estimates, the establishment of a free trade zone within the EPA would enable Ukraine to obtain up to one billion 200 million. 1 trillion. $1 billion 200 million a year. In the first half of this year, the total turnover of services between Ukraine and the EU was only 32, while the CIS markets gave us 38 per cent of the turnover. This led to a half-yearly increase in total external trade for Ukrainian exporters by more than 40 per cent compared with the first half of last year, and this growth was more achieved by the CIS markets by 42 per cent, while the growth in end-economy trade with the new members of the European Union was lower than with countries that had long-outrun the European Union. Thus, a free trade zone is a level that not only does not interfere, but also helps us to integrate smoothly into the EU without violating the EU as a whole or with individual countries. The establishment of a free trade zone within the framework of the EP will not hinder Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. Skeptics argue that it is unlikely that Ukraine will be able to continue the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union in the event of further integration into the Single Economic Area. But isn't that what we've been trying to do for all these Euro-Integration years? We strive, but to the greatest regret, we have never reached it. The establishment of a free trade zone with the EU is still a far-reaching prospect and requires WTO entry and recognition by the European Union of Ukraine as a market economy country. We should work in this direction, not grieve or abuse, especially because we are not being taken to the European Union. There is a need to actively develop border cooperation with new EU members on neighbourhood programmes while at the same time ensuring the early establishment of a free trade zone without exemptions within the framework of the EPA. In addition, the negotiating process on the action plan with the EU needs to be stepped up, ensuring that Ukrainian producers move as effectively as possible to European markets. These are tactical targets. But this must ensure that economic growth is maintained, that national capital is strengthened, that jobs are created and, consequently, that poverty is overcome, which is the main reason why we are not yet wanted in the European house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u67	Thank you. The word is Cassianov, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. He'll be followed by Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to stress the relevance of developing new approaches to cooperation with the European Union in the context of the enlargement of the EU. Europe is twenty - five more important to Ukraine’s economic development. Unfortunately, today we leave a mediocre participant in European integration processes. After the enlargement of the EU, we are only geographically closer to a united Europe. Yet, they did not get more weight to defend their own economic interests. Therefore, relations with the European Union need to be seen as a priority for Ukrainian diplomacy, legislative and executive. It is time to demonstrate, not declarative, but real commitment to the principles of European integration and market economy. In my view, the most important task for us today is to move to a more favourable trade regime in relation to the European Union, and this is possible, above all, after Ukraine has been given membership in the World Trade Organization. The introduction to the WTO will be a real testimony to Ukraine’s European choice. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, Ukraine's WTO membership is a prerequisite for liberalising trade between Ukraine and the EU and the actual precondition for creating a free trade zone within the EU. Therefore, we believe that the government should be stepped up by now to negotiate the creation of a free trade zone with the EU. I recall that, as early as March 2003, the EU and Ukraine signed a bilateral protocol on mutual market access within the framework of the WTO negotiation process, which is an important basis for conducting such negotiations. I would like to point out that WTO membership is also a prerequisite for the European Union to grant the status of Ukraine with a market economy for Ukraine. It's not signing the protocol, it's membership of the SOT. Once again, the introduction to WTO is becoming strategic in cooperation with the EU. If Ukraine were a member of the WTO at the time of the enlargement of the EU, the negative effects of its enlargement would be less noticeable to our exporters. The quantification of the volume of imports of Ukrainian products into the market of a united Europe takes place solely because Ukraine is not a member of the WTO. Within the WTO, all the quantitative restrictions on trade are prohibited. We have declared entry into the WTO more than ten years ago. For the last two years, the negotiation process has been activated. The government has signed a number of important bilateral protocols. But have we drawn close to the goal? Let us be critical of our accomplishments. Unfortunately, the pace of our progress toward the goal is not enough. This creates a problem of widening the circle of participants in the negotiation process. If the Working Group included 32 countries in 2002, we now have 42 members of the group. 25 protocols have been signed, but only 15-20 countries continue to negotiate actively with us. And it's time, effort, cost and loss. Losses for our manufacturers and consumers. Obviously, it is not the first task of the government and parliament to harmonize our legislation with the WTO legal requirements. And it is Parliament that plays a primary role in this work. The Joint Parliamentary-Governmental Commission, which I am in charge of, has examined the state of law enforcement for the WTO accession process. Today, the Supreme Council has 14 drafts at various stages of its consideration, which are of paramount importance for the conclusion of the WTO entry. I propose that we decide whether these bills should be given priority status for consideration both at meetings of the relevant committees and at plenary meetings. In general, Ukraine's integration into WTO and the development of new prospects for cooperation with Europe is a good basis for the consolidation of the country's healthy political forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u69	Thank you. The word comes from the faction of the Social-Democratic Party, the national deputy of Shurma, who will be followed by Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u70	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] It is clear that in terms of Ukrainian interests the current state of relations between Ukraine and the European Union cannot be regarded as encouraging or even satisfying. The whole point is that today only one desire for Ukraine to cooperate with Europe is apparently too small. There's got to be a feedback. The main task is to conclude the negotiations and adopt the "Ukraine-European Union" action plan on the content of which there are significant differences between the parties. It is hoped that the main content of this action plan will be to define the parameters of the free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union. As a result, the main areas of cooperation that reflect the fundamental interests of the Ukrainian side remain trade, energy, and transport. That is, those aspects that have a significant impact on the formation of Ukraine's domestic gross product and have a direct impact on social and economic development. It is clear that the enlargement of the European Union makes it urgent to improve cooperation in the field of energy, including taking into account the prospects for electricity exports to the States of the European Union. The conditions of access within the European Union for vehicles and rail transport should be carefully taken into account. Cooperation with the European Union in the field of standardization and certification of goods and services is substantially increasing. In doing so, the government should develop and implement its own concept of Ukrainian production into European Union standards, including the prospect of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, which we hope and hope will happen someday. However, in this area it is wise to adhere to sound pragmatism by not lowering or changing internal standards in cases where it seems unmotivated or undervalued. The enlargement of the European Union puts the day’s review and improvement of a number of overseas projects in order. In particular, attention should be paid to the need for more active and close cooperation between customs in order to prevent smuggling. The problem of the construction and operation of transport corridors, especially those that provide goods from the European Union to Russia, Zakaucusza, and Central Asia, is of great importance. The prospect of such projects as existing euro areas should be reconsidered. In this regard, there is reason to fear that, as a result of the European Union's approval of the wider Europe programme, these projects may fail. European legislation requires more careful study, especially from the point of view of its use, which may be useful to Ukrainian operators. In addition, we should use the positive experience of the European Union on the social guarantees of the population as set out in the European Social Charter. The enlargement of the European Union puts the day’s regular consultations on security issues in order. We can see how governments of individual neighbouring countries are using the EU's approach to their borders to breed local conflicts, such as Transnistrian and South Ossetian. There is also a need to put an end to the problem of environmental security in connection with the European Union’s approach. Today we are witnessing how Ukraine is trying to make a waste dump and imperfect processing processes that are now abroad. The problem of the Hudrons, which is now extremely acute in Lviv, has raised a number of questions. Not to transport these Hudrons, as some officials are trying to do, to the Donetsk region and bury them there in the mines, and the problem with the Ukrainian State is to get these Gudrons back to a civilized Europe, and if they're harmless, let them process them there. What can be expected? The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party believes that the EU will try to have a significant impact on environmental security, which requires the Ukrainian Government to hold regular consultations with the European Union on issues that have a significant impact on Ukraine's interests. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u71	The word is given by the national deputy of Belarus, the faction of Block Timoshenko. The Master will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u72	Oleg Belarus, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but wonder at the formulation of today's issue of government day: "On the new directions of Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union. Today, as you can see, this is no longer about integration in the full sense, it's not even about Ukraine's associated membership in the European Union, it's about some mystical new directions of cooperation. The question is, why is the degradation of our relationship with the European Union? And who's to blame? And what it takes to do is, in fact, ensure the natural, logical integration of Ukraine into the European structure. The paradox of Ukraine is that the government has not been able to develop a national development strategy for Ukraine in 13 years and has thus failed to put Euro-Atlantic integration and European integration back into Europe as the main objective of socio-economic development. And as a result, we have a 13-year-old drift from Europe. I worked as Director of the Department of Industry, Science, and Technology of the United Nations Department from 1979 to 1986. And then I was proud to say that Ukraine is in 10 developed countries of the world. Oh, then we would have to integrate into European structures and into Europe. Today, the government is demagogically popular and irresponsible for 10 years or 13 is talking about formal membership in the European Union. That's not what you need to talk about. That's what you need to talk about. That's real integration. And real integration and formal membership are different things. Today, Switzerland is a highly developed country and does not think to join the EU. And not just Switzerland, because it doesn't need it, Switzerland barely joined the UN, with four billion dollars a year for the establishment of international organizations. The only way to return to Europe, to integrate into the European structures, and not into the European Union is to integrate and increase international, if you want, Ukraine's global competitiveness. Unfortunately, over the course of 13 years, Ukraine's international competitiveness has dropped from 20th to 100th place, and continues to decline despite the government's curse on high growth rates. There's no pace, because there's no budget representation, there's no reflection in the welfare of the people. So for us, formal membership, formal integration is not an end in itself, and we need to know the truth about it. For us, delayed integration means, first of all, internal integration, the structural reconstruction of Ukraine's economy. And the introduction, a formal introduction to the European Union, even if it did occur in this lack of preparation, would mean billions of losses to Ukraine each year as a result of uncompetitiveness. Take this example. One Rotterdam port receives 50 billion euros a year and Ukraine receives 10 billion dollars a year. Where do you want to go with this? Put another burden on our people? We need to think about internal development first and put everything in order for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u73	Thank you. The word has the National Deputy of the Masters, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine", which will be followed by Ostrash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u74	Vladimir Masterskin, faction of "Ukraine". Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! The wide-ranging enlargement of the European Union, its accession to 10 new members on 1 May, and the reconciliation at the EU's June summit of the text of the single European Constitution have been a significant achievement of the old continent's policy. True, the Constitution of a united Europe still needs to be signed and ratified. Even now, however, experts have pointed out that the European Union is confidently gaining the status of a single player in the world’s geopolitical arena. Ukraine, if the State actually claims to play a role in interstate relations in today's globalizing world, cannot leave these changes without careful attention and analysis. We must formulate answers to a series of questions that are of primary importance to us. And one of the main questions is, do we have reason to claim membership in the United Europe in principle? And if so, what is the time frame for our introduction? At what level of cooperation are we today? With regard to Ukraine's prospects of becoming a full member of the European political community, the experts on both sides of our state's border are still strikingly different. The spectrum is wide: from promising promises of pah. And a demonstration, a demonstration finger pointing to mistakes that do not cost a living process of creating a young state. In principle, the first article agreed with the European Constitution guarantees the right of any European country to become a member of the European Union. True, it is necessary to overcome the barrier, on the one hand, in my view, of the insulting attitude of much of the Eurocurocracy toward our country and, on the other hand, of the domestic State machinery. So we have to work in two directions right now. Right now, we can talk about good news in the economic sphere. A positive signal of Kiev’s cooperation with developing Brussels is the dynamic increase in trade volumes between Ukraine and the European Union. As is known, the European Union’s share of foreign trade in our country, with its new members, has reached 33 percent. The European Union has become our largest external economic partner. Positive trends are also observed. Incoming. Ukraine's foreign direct investment from Europe. The EU's share of investment is 55 per cent of the total amount that our country has received. It would seem that the next logical step would be to give Ukraine, the Ukrainian market economy, but the possibility of resolving it would seem to be a purely economic issue that has been brought to the political plane. What is the task for us today — parliamentarians and governments? As soon as possible, we will be able to prove the work of joining the World Trade Organization, and then we will be able to translate the discussion of European values into practical terms. First of all, creating conditions for the development of the Ukrainian economy. We'll build Brussels in Kiev, we'll want it in Brussels itself. What does that mean? First of all, further convergence of the EU's economic standards, ensuring a stable economic development for investment, establishing the same rules for all and stable rules of the game for business, continuing the system of work in national legislation and the legislative framework of the World Trade Organization, increasing our level. The life of our citizens is the task of the Ukrainian authorities for the coming period. If we can do this, a strong domestic economy will become the engine that will drive the Ukrainian drive to the European Union. Systemic work in the economic sphere will help us to become more and more powerful and less dependent on public opinion or the thinking of foreign politicians. So the practical point I have today is that we have a certain, let's say, non-reflective cooperation with the members of the European Union. Lithuania today takes our refrigerators, as an example, three times as much as those that are refrigerated when imported into Ukraine. And this is not an adequate work of cooperation today. How many notes do we have today on metal scrapping? To my conviction, it is the strong Ukrainian economy that must become the most appropriate response of our Ukraine to the leaders of today's world. So, in the end, let me stress once again the confidence that, at this stage, we should work together with the European Union, not primarily because of political declarations, but because of economic reforms and raising the standard of living of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u75	Thank you. The word from the faction "Our Ukraine" has the national deputy Ostrash. Then there will be an opportunity for several national deputies to speak. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u76	Igor Ostrash, the faction of Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine." Dear fellow national MPs! Dear government officials! It seems that in recent years our President and some government leaders have been pretending to be interested in European integration, and accordingly the European Union has also, knowing and understanding this, been pretending to be interesting to them. And as a result of this simulation, we ended up with some African countries on a list of so-called European Union neighbours. This is now our new status with regard to the European Union. But we need to understand that for us to join the European Union, first of all, it's democracy in Ukraine, it's democratic elections, it's transparent privatization, it's the fight against corruption, And it's a civil society. And when we ask the question whether the Ukrainian authorities wanted it, we will realize that this question is rhetorical today. And especially noteworthy is our introduction to the World Trade Organization. Since this year, we have practically completed all the procedures. And what do we have? One of the main prerequisites for our accession to the European Union is virtually overturned. Moreover, with the latest documents, we have lost the right to decide for ourselves the issue of our accession to the World Trade Organization, and we have to coordinate this with three other nations. Today, there is a very serious problem with the mechanism for a consolidated state decision in foreign policy. It has already been said here today that this right is practically privatized by the non-constitutional Administration of the President. And two other ministries: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economics and European Integration have become practically appendages, departments of the Presidential Administration. And as a result, we have what? That Ukraine’s decisions were built, not on the principles of protecting national interests, but on behalf of some individual heads of state and several clans in the Ukrainian State. And that's also particularly true of the question about the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline. And it's really up to us to question whether we're going to be individual, independent players in the European economic market, whether this pipeline will be privatized by one or two, as was the case with the Crevistal clans in Ukraine. Without a doubt, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the Constitution, defines the basic principles of Ukraine’s foreign policy. But were we consulted on many issues by some leaders of our nation when making foreign political decisions, or were they even consulted with representatives of the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration? This question is also rhetorical. Foreign policy is not political abstraction. It immediately affects the Ukrainian economy, the wallets of Ukrainian citizens, freedom of movement and visa policy. Unfortunately, the policy of active power has led to long - awaited investments, and these are new jobs, virtually not coming to Ukraine. Moreover, everyone is now awaiting the results of the new presidential election because the final confidence in existing authority has been undermined. Without waiting for Ukrainian power, Ukrainian citizens decided to integrate into the European Union in person and without the help of power. And unfortunately, today up to five million Ukrainians are or are working in the European Union. And unfortunately, they're really, really talking about it today, they're lawless, they're defenseless. And even such a basic question as voting in the next presidential election today is a question for these people, because virtually today, polling stations abroad are being prepared for only 200,000 Ukrainians. Think about it, 3-5 million and 200,000 Ukrainians. That is why we must go to the European Parliament in order to reach a decision on enabling conditions for the voting of Ukrainians in the European Union. And last but not least, we recently saw a beautiful cartoon in "The Mirror of the Week," where the butcher sells out the store's remains in connection with the closing of this store. So our task, we really see today the sale of Ukraine reached unprecedented size before the presidential election. So our job, the parliamentarians, is to stop this sale, maybe do some repairs in this store and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u77	Dear colleagues. We still have the opportunity to give the floor to two speakers of three minutes, please, Puzakov, behind him, Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u78	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Ukraine, surprisingly, suffers from the declarative and populism of its internal and external political decisions on European and Euro-Atlantic dimensions, and Europe, in turn, does not understand what kind of policy Ukrainian leadership is leading. On such soil, of course, healthy and mutually beneficial relationships cannot be built. Today, the Ukrainian people are eager to reach the standards of living in the advanced countries of the EU. And the first step in implementing this ambition of the Ukrainian people is to accelerate the ratification process by Ukraine of the European Social Charter, but the Ukrainian government has signed this agreement in 1999. Regrettably ignores the important document of social protection of Ukrainian and European citizens. In today's anti-national regime, it's hopeless. Who needs a state in which the economy has flown a screwdriver, factories, and factories have put the hands of those close to the oligarch throne in the grave, and the intellectual and professional degradation of the Ukrainian people has reached a threatening proportion, according to estimates of Ukraine’s international exports has been attributed to the number of extinctions. And thieving privatization and total corruption have blown up the economy of the state. Even though the people try to overthrow the bandits in corruption, they break down against the machine of counterfeiting and basic fraud from the side of the active authorities. Of course, the reasons and obstacles to Ukraine's participation in European integration are sufficient. And the main obstacle is Ukraine's objectively significant economic backlog from EU countries tens of times. The internal contradictions of Ukrainian politics are also added to the signs. Also, the approach often applied by Western nations to double standards for Ukraine: when we are not perceived as an equal partner. As for Ukraine’s role in the future of Europe, it will be determined by how successful Ukraine and European partners will be in achieving Ukraine’s possible contributions to the only European welfare. Ukrainian society has a wide range of interests in the EU, including the world of domestic democracy, parliamentaryism, cultural values, information technology, science, education and medicine. Communists believe that Ukraine's and the EU's joint efforts should be geared more towards building confidence between Ukrainian citizens and EU countries. But the President's ambitious and unappreciative plans do not give us authority. Is it true that the president of Ukraine does not notice that the proclaimer of truth is a paw?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u79	Thank you. The word has Rudzkowski and we will sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u80	Honourable national MPs, distinguished listeners, the introduction to the European Community for Ukraine far and a pink perspective, can only be provided by internal processes of democratization in Ukraine, which unfortunately has not been observed in the last five years. As long as the heads of journalists are cut off in Ukraine under the direction of the leadership of the State, law enforcement officials will continue to share strategic enterprises among themselves; until in Ukraine, the President's Administration will determine politics, until most in Ukraine are formed outside the political agreement of those political forces that won the elections, not the economic grounds, as is now the case with the majority. I'm asked all over Ukraine, "Is it the Agrarian Party that came out of most of the politics?".. She came out of economic beliefs because she had not yet taken the initiative to resign the government, not to withdraw her deputy prime minister from the government, not to propose the beginning of Leonid Danilovich's impeachment, not to make an offer to withdraw troops from Iraq. One reason: one oligarch was given to another oil refinery by most. As long as politics and most of them in the Supreme Council are formed in Ukraine, we have nothing in Europe. Baking methods in Ukraine have been established for a long time. Until the European social policy is finally implemented in Ukraine, until European standards of free medicine are established, education, as is the case in European states, as long as the electoral campaign continues to take place in Ukraine, no one will accept Ukraine, the discussions will be concluded. And other things. It's just a shame that the national MPs agree that the Deputy Assistant Minister is coming here, not the Deputy Prime Minister and not the Minister, to report. I think that Ukraine has one choice: to choose a truly strategic perspective for Ukraine's accession to Europe, but with the provision and construction of European standards in Ukraine, changes in the system of power, and thus to ensure Ukraine's move forward into Europe: through changes in the system of power. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u81	Thank you. There's no procedure anymore, because we're not voting anything. There's no procedure. Dear colleagues, we'll sum it up. First. I'd like to, let's just be objective and not insult those who are present in the government's bed, Mikola Rudzkowski. Let's call positions what they are. Reported the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, not the first assistant deputy. So please, you have to follow some basic ethical rules. Thus, honourable colleagues, according to our Rules, we have used all the time to discuss a rather serious issue. Indeed, speeches and reports by the Cabinet of Ministers and presentations by fellow members of the national deputies who took part in the discussion spoke of some or other ways of cooperation. Sadly, we did not pay much attention to the subject of our conversation. We talked about cooperation in general, about the European Union and so on, and today's agenda and some of the national deputies have been paying attention to it, regarding new approaches to cooperation. Because we are very easily approaching the enlargement of the European Union, to the point that its number has increased by 10 and we are hardly speaking openly about the problems that have arisen, including the economic problems associated with the enlargement of the European Union. And one more moment. Let's be objective again. We will not boast of what does not deserve to be praised. In fact, the European Union is now in line with the data that we've been given to take first place in external trade. But this is 25 countries in Europe. And these 25 countries in Europe have 31 percent. And one country with which we work and on which we depend enough and quite much Russia has 30 percent of the external economic trade. I mean, let's not overemphasize the importance of any kind of cooperation, but look for ways to respect our state. And ending. I think that our future, our future, our future, our perspective depends not on us asking Europe to accept us, but on us to make such a level of life and democracy that Europe asks that Ukraine be part of the European Union. And let's work together on these. Question completed. I thank those who participated. A break of 30 minutes is announced. After the break, consider the second issue of Government Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u82	We're continuing our work. The second question we need to hear on Government Day today is to decide on the decision, the content: "On the state of reform and the legislative provision of the activities of Ukraine's law enforcement authorities." Reportedly: First Deputy Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Kornienko Vasilovich, Head of the State Border Service, Head of the State Department for Execution of Penalties, First Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Zwaluk Viktor Romanovich, Deputy Head of the Security Service Drizcjan Igor Vasilovich, will be the head of the Committee on Legal Protection. It is suggested that the time limit for consideration is 5 minutes - for information to the respective leaders, 7 minutes - for answers to questions in writing and lips, then the committee head, Moysik Volodymyr Romanovich, with a joint response, will speak and then hold a half-hour discussion. Yeah? Just so we have enough time. Is there no objection? From the procedure? Please. Sign up, three minutes of procedural questions. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the procedure. Roman Zvaric. Malinowski will be next. Microphone, please, Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Of course, we are obliged to consider the matter and continue the Government Day according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But as it is not possible to ignore the fact that the government has completely ignored Parliament does not exercise its constitutional authority on this matter. I emphasize that there are no first persons present in the session room besides that the government should understand that the electoral days are a matter of a very important nature. And secondly, I don't remember, at least in the seven, almost, years that I am the Ukrainian National Deputy, so that the government doesn't send even one page of information on this issue. I mean, there hasn't been a government day where we haven't received any general analytical help from the government on this issue. And if such materials were sent, at least they were not distributed to the Ukrainian national deputies. I mean, I wanted to use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am evidently asking the Secretariat to find out, Roman Mikhailovich, other colleagues who did not receive the materials. Maybe they didn't get it for technical reasons. As to the account of the first - person issue. Well, we have two First Leaders present. Others, dear colleagues, have received official information from the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, we do not need to stop considering the matter. We need to hear about the situation on a case-by-case basis. And the situation should be high and at an appropriate level, regardless of who is in charge. Please, Alexander Malinowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u85	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you, only Alexei Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u86	Excuse me, Alexei Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u87	Nothing happens. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say something else. You know, I'm a member of the Law Enforcement Committee. For a year and a half, Mr. Bilocon has been unable to attend even a committee meeting. I understand he's a very busy man. But the question raised today was well - known. So I firmly oppose listening to this question, an extremely complex question, about reforming the law enforcement agencies without the first person in the ministry. The faction supports my speech and also strongly opposes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u88	I think that the honourable colleagues, when political reform takes place, when ministers are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we, I think, will not have any disagreement. Let us go ahead and make a decision that the Supreme Council has appointed and had the opportunity to hear a report from each member of the Government. Gregory Omelchenko, timoshenko block faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u89	Grigory Omelchenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of the Council, the electoral bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, a community of Ukrainian officers. Dear colleagues, I support my colleagues who say that today's debate on the state of the law, the fight against corruption, organized crime, when the first persons of law enforcement, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office is simply to have an agenda. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I agree with you about what happens to such visits to the first leaders and regardless of who appoints them: If the President appoints the Supreme Council, this shows disrespect for Parliament by these leaders. Where would they be? They knew in a few months that they would be listening to this question, and above all, we are listening to a very important question, where the language goes not only to some facts of corruption, but to total corruption and to the fact that, at the head of this corruption, the President of Ukraine himself is Leonid Kuchma, who should be held accountable. I have a suggestion: to move the matter forward when the Attorney General and other heads of law enforcement authorities will be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to you: time is up, we've already exchanged. I would like to draw your attention to what is being formulated as follows: the state of reform and the legislative provision of the activities of Ukraine's law enforcement agencies. Obviously we should say what is being done to reform and how we provide, the Supreme Council, in the legislative sense of the law enforcement system, and not mix God's gift with the egg today and talk about. So let's take a consistent look at the issues that are going on. We exchanged thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. I'm sorry. So if you insist, I can ask you a transfer of the question, but it doesn't make sense, because we're just going to lose a day. Who today wants to say his position, to give his assessment, will have the opportunity to give his position to the electorate, to the Ukrainian people. So I'm going to go over this. Is there no objection? Time's up, dear fellows. We exchanged thoughts, time was running out. All of it. Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich, the first deputy minister of the interior affairs of Ukraine, has the floor. Prepare for the head of the State Border Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I can put your proposal to the vote. But I'm sure she won't get the required number of votes. Why would we discredit the Supreme Council? The Supreme Council has determined that the Supreme Council has made a decision. But since the first heads of some departments and ministries are present today, we cannot stop the work of the Supreme Council, stop life. We're asking, we're not listening to the report, but we're listening to information from the Ministry. There are two big differences, I think. I'd like to support me in this. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. First of all, I thank you for your attention to the issues of the reform of the IMF system. This work began with an approved government decision, the concept of the development of the IMF system, and is an integral part of Ukraine’s administrative reform. All changes today are based on principles such as the activities of the Ministry of Health, Human Rights, Human Rights and Freedoms, the interests of society and the State against unlawful attacks, openness and transparency of law enforcement. I will take a closer look at the reform efforts that have taken place over the past year. In accordance with the requirements of the MOU, approved in the state of the Central Office of the Ministry. The structure of the internal affairs and internal forces of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs has also been updated. A new list of positions of military chiefs has been approved. He also foresees their borderline special and military titles. Ten general posts and about a thousand colonels are cut short. With international experience and with the aim of demilitarizing internal affairs, the number of civilian employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is increasing. To date, 11,000 civilian posts, or officers, have been transferred to the civilian category. The civil office of deputy minister has also been issued. This contributes to reducing budget spending, preserving human potential. In order to restore citizens’ confidence in the police, their relationship with them is being scrutinized. Emphasis is placed on strengthening units that work directly with the population. These are, first of all, the district inspectors, the post office and the road patrol. In this regard, 2,000 assistant district inspectors have been added. New European approaches have been initiated to register citizens’ appeals for crimes. This approach yields positive results. On average, 7.5 thousand applications are made to the police every day, and the total number has increased by 30 percent this year. Restoring people’s trust in the police is facilitated by personal acceptance by both the minister and his deputies, the governing body of the Internal Affairs Office. During this year, 237,000 citizens attended the private reception. For the first time in Ukraine, the Law on the Creation of Local Police has been passed in support of Parliament. The government also approved the position of this institution in the structure of the IMF. The Cabinet of Ministers is now initiating a proposal for the 2005 State Budget. Counting in local transfers budgets to create local police. At the same time, the IMF hopes to support local self-government authorities in addressing the problem of human and financial security. We are justly criticized for our lack of rights!Oh, my God! In the course of operational activities. We're making conclusions. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has now established the post of Counsellor of the Minister responsible for the protection of human rights and gender issues in the activities of the CCW. A public council was also created with prominent public figures, national deputies, scientists, and people with high public authority. Similar councils are created in regions. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is taking fundamental steps to reform its internal forces, turning them into a nonmilitary task force. By the end of 2005, they will have reached 33.3,000. Reforms are geared towards changing approaches to staff work, forming a new generation of Ukrainian militias. By the way, the total number of IMFs has been reduced by 163,000 over the last 8 years -- without fire protection and with the Department of Execution. The main link of this reconstruction is the educational system. Based on the European experience and the requirements of the Bologna Declaration, we have started a degree of modular integrated training of specialists since this year in our colleges. By optimising the education system, we're working on the creation of two leading science complexes on the basis of all branches. Among the main problems of transformation are the imperfections of the legal basis of our activity. We're working in this direction as well. They conducted a review of the notable acts. 600 orders and instructions and instructions are arranged to 30. The IMF interacts with parliamentary committees to ensure the adoption of 22 laws relating to police activity in 3-4 sessions. But that's not enough. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs initiated the Government's drafting of a bill on internal affairs in Ukraine. At the time of the adoption of the new edition of the Criminal Procedure Code, laws on the organization and legal basis of the fight against crime, on operational and search activities, as well as on the statute and procedural guarantees of investigators, on weapons, on security activities, etc. We hope for fruitful cooperation with you. Honorable national MPs, without adequate financial security, cannot reform the system. Unfortunately, budget constraints, for 2004, account for 35 percent of the need, make it impossible for the proper functioning of the material and technology base, for the transition to modern technology, for the active implementation of reform measures. The government is coming to meet us and is looking for ways to improve the financial situation in 2005. We also look forward to supporting the people's deputies to increase their budget expenditure, both for the maintenance of the U.S.S. and for the reform of the system. The Ministry is now developing an appropriate concept for further reform of the U.S.S.S. Among the leading directions of reform is the demilitarization of the militia, the provision of technological and human resources, the development of science and science.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u93	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u94	Let's report to the profile committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u95	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. We have seven minutes to ask. Please answer the letter. Sign up for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u96	I have to say we've received 28 written questions. If I'm going to answer all the questions, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u97	No, you start at the first, and you start at the short. Because of one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u98	Question of the factions of the Ukrainian Company. "The IMF authorities have been reforming for more than 10 years. During this time, twice as numerous as the Armed Forces, the law enforcement system has not been able to achieve any visible shifts in the fight against the main enemy of Ukrainian society, total corruption, namely: it has become an all-U.S. roof for the activities of various criminal calibres, beginning with the unhindered promotion of money-laundering by oligarchs and ending with self-inflicted self-inflicted self-infliction at the level of business inspectors." I have already reported that a number of measures have been taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to strengthen the fight against corruption and bribery. Police. This year alone, more than two and a half thousand crimes involving bribery, including 41 bribes committed by organized groups and criminal organizations. 29 organized groups with corrupt connections have been identified, and five thousand abuses of authority or official power have been detected, of which 1 in 4 relates to the loss of more than 100,000 dollars. In violation of anticorruption laws, 635 offenders, 61 of whom have been dismissed from their posts, have been brought to justice by the courts. There's another job going on. It's about fighting against self-inflicted self-indulgence. Militia units have filed 831 criminal cases for activities prohibited from farming, including for self - ingenuity nearly 700 of them have already been investigated and sent to court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u99	Yes, please provide a list of those who have signed up. Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u100	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Please tell us whether you need to wait for reform or if you can answer such questions without reform. On August 10th, illegal surveillance of the Presidential candidate was detected as the leader of our faction, Victor Yushchenk. There have been appropriate claims, but the criminal case is intact, and it is violated against. Only by the fact of the beating of the person who followed. On September 16, we will have the Day of Grief of the Memory of Georgia Gongadze, and we know how it ended for Gongadze. Next. We all know that you're not deliberately investigating the Camas case for Chernobyl. On August 12, the same CAMAZ was prepared for Victor Yushchenk in the Herson region. Would you please explain why the police behind you are ignoring this case again? Or should she go to the finals too? A fatal outcome?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u101	I have to say that with regard to the events that were on I.P., there was a service investigation. There are no violations on the part of the police. The police carried out their service duties. I ask you to behave properly, Mr. People's Deputy! Please behave properly! It was violated with regard to acts committed against police officers, which meant that a criminal case had been committed by the prosecution of Crimean autonomy and was investigated. This investigation reveals all the circumstances leading up to this. As far as driving events are concerned. In the Herson area, there's also a criminal case that's being investigated. Service investigation has shown that the police are absolutely innocent of anything, rather than the other way around. As for the events of August 16th. September 16th. You also know that in connection with the death of Gongadze, a criminal case has been committed, an investigation is being conducted by the Attorney General's Office. We're doing a search and rescue on behalf of the prosecutor's office. With regard to the death of the former national deputy of Chernobyl, the investigation has also been completed. There are no reasons, no faults in this case, in the organization of this crime. You know what the conclusions of this event are. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u102	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u103	Yes, a written question. How does the government plan to solve the problem of technical security for the downlinks of the militia, the post office and the police? I've already said that our security is only 35 percent, but with the help of the government, we've received additional funds this year -- 65 million -- that were directed to the militia that we're talking about, that is, to the post office. These include the acquisition of means of communication, and the acquisition of cars, portable radio stations, means of individual defense and active defense. I'm not going to count everything because it's going to take a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u104	Please, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u105	The 50th constituency, "Ukraine," Korsakov. Mikhail Vasilovich, the problems of law enforcement in the state are not settled today. What extent does your department accept in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u106	I've already reported that we have now prepared the main law of our activity, this is the draft Law on Internal Affairs. So the Law, which has been passed, "The Police" for almost 14 years, we think that this law, it's now being worked in ministries and departments, and by the end of the year, we plan to bring it to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u107	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u108	Letters. Our voters in letters and meetings address the need for order in markets where peasants implement farmed or produced in rural areas. Production. It's a request from an agrarian faction, the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Mass violations of the rule of law and other lawlessness in these places are known to all. It is often heard that even law enforcement officials are involved. In view of this, what laws must be adopted to protect peasants from being attacked by all extortioners and racketeers? The Ministry of Internal Affairs has taken measures to ensure the conservation of products and to protect consumers in agricultural markets. This year, since the beginning of this year, some 7,000 crimes, including 979 claims, have been captured and discovered in markets. There are 479 criminal cases referred to the court, some of which have already been dealt with by the courts, some of which are being examined. Crimes have cost more than 8 million dollars, of which nearly 6 million have been compensated. The activity of 154 commercial structures has been halted and nearly 2,000 market locations have been eliminated. This work is under the control of the heads of the district administration, under the supervision of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u109	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to speak to the head of the State Border Service of Lithuania, Mikol Mikhailovich. Please. Here, Mikhailovich, the border on the castle. So, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm reporting on the state of reform of the State Border Service and on the legislative provision of its activities. The reform of the border forces into the State Border Service is provided by a programme of actions approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine in 200 C.E. To carry out this program, the Supreme Council adopted two basic laws, the State Border Service, and the Amendments to a number of legislative acts, as of 1 August 2003. Under the law, the State Border Service is formed as a law enforcement agency for special purposes, defined the legal principles of activity, structure, number, function, and authority. In close cooperation with the government, the Supreme Council Committees on National Security and Defence and Law Enforcement, amendments were made to five codes, 48 laws, 31 Presidential decrees and 131 decrees and orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The existing legislative base allows the State Border Service to carry out assignments. The reform of the Foreign Office is carried out in a phased manner, within the cost of the State budget. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved an organizational reform plan. The measures are based on regulatory and legal support for activities, changes in organizational structure, improvements in forms and methods of border protection, development of the training system, recruitment and staffing, technical refurbishment and reform of other types of security, border management measures and the development of border infrastructure. As part of the organization's 69 posts, the central apparatus is reduced, 40 per cent of the civil service officers are replaced, 21 per cent are reduced by senior officers and senior officers, the area of responsibility of the regional authorities and the authorities of the border is adjusted. Knowledge and administrative implementation units have been created. The core forces and resources are directed directly at protecting the state border, reforming intelligence and operational security structures. As a result, the desired ratio of structure and quantity that you see on the slide is reached. Failure to implement the decisions of both the President and the Government to radically improve the response to organized crime, terrorism on the border, changes in forms, methods and methods of service. They're based on a qualitatively new scientifically based theoretical base. As part of the technical equipment, 85 systems of automated passport systems will be deployed, and 200 satellite stations on the border will be installed by the end of this year. The existing resources of foreign aviation, ships, and marine defence boats have been restored. In view of the economic, financial, and financial capabilities of the State, the back-up system has been reformed. Another 12 new units will be introduced into the operation of 18 towns of new overseas units this year. Thanks to targeted work, over the last three years, creditors' debt has dropped from 54 million to 5 million. The primary focus in working with staff is on increasing personal responsibility for the status of the assigned area, resisting the involvement of border guards in illegal activities, and ensuring social protection of the individual. Therefore, the personnel training system is being modified accordingly, and the staff rotation plan is being implemented. In view of the need to determine the future, the concept of the development of Ukraine’s State Border Service for 2005, 15 years began to be developed. Its work involves not only professionals but also national deputies, leading scientists. The concept defines current and projected threats to the state’s border security. the essence of the new model of border protection and the main directions for its implementation. We believe that the reform of the State Border Service is complex and systematic and is carried out in the context of the basic principles for the construction of border offices in Europe. The essence and main objective of all reform measures is to improve the protection of the country's national interests on the border, the resistance to organized crime. increasing the level of protection of citizens' rights. We look forward to the support of the Supreme Council and the Government of Ukraine on these issues. In particular, the 2005 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u111	Thank you, Mikhailovich. You have 7 minutes to answer the question. Please answer the letter. People's deputies please sign up. Is there no writing? That's better. Please show the list. Yeah, 7 minutes, Widow, get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u112	Dear Mikhailovich! The sanctuary of every state is a state border, its protection. We have a completely defenseless state border with Russia and this allows illegal immigration, we have turned into a country of illegal immigration, and the flow of these illegals goes through Ukraine, which is also a potential threat to terrorism. What measures are being taken now after strengthening the Ukrainian-Russian border? I don't want to politicize it, I don't want to politicize it. That is, in terms of ensuring our independence. And the second. Now newspapers have learned about the deportation of Chinese people to their homeland, who have illegally infiltrated the territory of Ukraine. About $2,000 to $2,500 was allegedly paid. And what if the accounts were put out to the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u113	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich, for asking. Indeed, the question that you have raised is a sinister one that needs to be resolved. But what I would like to say about your question. There are four main ways in which illegal migrants can enter Europe. The Russian-Ukrainian, Russian-Belarusian route, the Eastern so-called route -- he's not the main filler of illegal migrants to Europe. The Balkan path through the countries of the European Union -- hundreds of thousands of people go there. We're talking about thousands of illegal migrants. This is for contrast, because many say that the main way of dealing with illegal migrants is through our countries. As far as the Ukrainian-Russian border area is concerned, it's the longest, more than 2,200 kilometers. But with regard to its equipment, according to the decisions taken by the Supreme Council, the government of our state, the real state -- the entire infrastructure on this part of the State border -- is being expanded, and there are gaps: both on a permanent basis and on a temporary basis. But this enables us to control the issue of crossing the state border and to resist the intrusion into our country of illegal migrants, not in full volume, but I would not say that we have an unprotected border there. As far as the issue of terrorism is concerned, you know that this is a very important issue. And we, understanding our responsibility under the State Border Service Act, have now taken a number of steps to strengthen the state border regime, especially on the so-called "green" border, and especially at the checkpoints, in order to prevent the entry into Ukraine of the means of terror and those who have problems with the law. So we see the problems that you've raised. Not only do they carry the work of the State’s foreign service, but they require a comprehensive approach, ranging from legislative, regulatory, to specific services, to a specific area of the border. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u114	Please, Orzhachowski, follow him Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u115	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Mikhailovich, you have discussed in such detail the intentions of reforming the border forces, which raises some doubts, at least not with these reforms, but with reforms in the countryside. But I do have a question for you. In short, please explain what is meant by the dedicated materials of the National Deputies for your authority to reform the foreign forces into a special task force? Is it designed to enhance the integrity of borders, or is it possible to start selling off foreign property? By the way, last Friday, I was asking about the Hersonic region at the Horolivian border. So there's a feeling that all of this could become a reality. Explain, please, what do you think it is?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u116	Okay, thanks. Here we have to assign that to answer that there were many different shipments. I want to say that we're not going to, but we've been doing what I've already said for over a year, and I'm saying this with all the responsibility. That that legislative base that we have has allowed us to conduct organizational transformations, structural transformations, create and redistribute areas of responsibility across borders. And we're now looking at changing the forms and methods of protecting the state border. What does that mean? I want to explain. Already in Europe, and there is nowhere in Russia to protect the state’s borders by military formation. That's why we're going from strictly military methods of protecting the state border to the law enforcement system in protecting the state border. To put it simply, the police methods of protecting the State border related to the acquisition of prejudiced information, the creation of modern information bases not only at the point of entry, but throughout the perimeter, and the creation of modern means of transmitting this information. And that tells us that we're not just going to declare it or think that we're going to do it, we're going to do it and we're going to do it. I think that many of the people's deputies that we had in our units in the State Border Guards, the regional authorities, they saw what we're doing. As far as the sale is concerned, we have not sold anything yet, because the property we have left and those towns are virtually uninterested. That's too bad. And we're not filling out our budget at the expense of sales, we're taking steps within the framework of the budget that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u117	Yes, please, National Deputy Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u118	Mikhailovich, I want to thank you for your clear response to my calls, but there are problems. It is, you remember, Goptovka, Arrow, where the border of Ukraine and Russia passes through such a zigzag that it is difficult to figure out where the land is. How is the solution to this problem of levelling the border within the bounds of what is certainly possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u119	Thank you. What am I trying to say? That both the establishment of the state and the definition of state borders do not go painlessly, because the length of Ukrainian borders is the largest in Europe, and we have about 6 thousand 992 kilometers. Now in the Ukrainian-Russian area of the border, you know that a clear contract defines delimitation of the land area of the State border, and clearly establishes the boundaries of the passage and the line of passage of the State border will be possible after the beginning of the demarcation work. At this stage, we have not yet reached the Ukrainian-Russian area of the border, we are just doing demarcation work at a not very fast pace on the Ukrainian-Moldov border area, where we already have about 180 kilometers of demarcation and the state border crossing on land. So these issues are resolved both by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which holds this issue in sight and at the level of foreign representation that the State Foreign Service does. And the questions that raise the people's deputies, especially at the local points of entry, on the issues that we have, there are such areas of dispute, they're all known to us and we're taking control, we're deciding on a plan, so let's say, temporarily, in terms of our contacts and meetings. I think it's going to be until then, and we're going to work and respond to them until there's a demarcation of the border area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u120	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Thank you for telling me about the schedule, it's a pleasure. Have a seat. Please, Mikhailovich. That's it. There's a lot of questions here, especially at Rudzkowski's, but there's no time. I give the floor to the Head of the Department of State on the execution of the sentences of Ljödimir Anatoliyovich. Please, Vladimir Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich, high - ranking national MPs! At present, the system of execution of sentences has 180 institutions that have 194 thousand people, 39.5 of whom are in detention facilities. There are 174 thousand convicted persons on the payroll of 700 criminal investigations. With all these citizens, 45,000 employees are employed, of whom 36,000 are in charge, with 21,000 underprivileged. The introduction of the modern reform of the criminal enforcement system was made by Cabinet of Ministers Order 88 of 1991 on the main directions for reforming the criminal enforcement system of Ukraine, which was supplemented in 1997 by the recommendations of experts from the Council of Europe, following their study of legislation that regulated the execution of sentences at the time, to comply with international standards and the state of its actual compliance. The main objectives of the reform were: firstly to improve the legislation; secondly to strengthen the material and technical base; thirdly to improve the material and economic conditions of detention, nutrition and medical care of the convicted; fourth to improve their distribution and qualifications; change in content and organization of work, including socio-psychological, with convicted persons; sixth to provide for the convicted; and finally seventh to improve the selection and training of staff. What have we been able to resolve over the years? Since the beginning of the reform of the criminal enforcement system, more than 200 amendments have been made to the Labour and Correctional Code, which was in force at the time, adopted more than 50 laws, the legal and regulatory acts of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, aimed at. The execution of penalties. The adoption of the Criminal, Criminal and Enforcement Codes of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Social Adaptation of Persons Who Were Sentenced as a Limitation of Will or Deprivation of a Term has allowed the legislative framework to be brought into line with international standards and, in fact, to change the ideology and practice of criminal punishment. The other one. In addition, nearly 30,000 seats were added to the placement of the condemned. The measures taken in the State allowed 16 percent from 226,000 to 194 to reduce the number of persons held in institutions, including 16.5 percent in investigative detention facilities, which had a positive impact on the operational environment. Third. New types of punishment are provided — arrests, limited will, public works, and permanent deprivation of liberty. Four. A progressive system of execution and punishment has been introduced to encourage the conduct of the condemned. Fifth. With the help of the government, district governments, work is being done on enterprise reform, an institution that has allowed annual production volumes and services to reach 350 million dollars and has ensured the employment of those sentenced to 60 percent. Six. In accordance with the Constitution and taking into account the low educational level of the condemned, along with the Ministry of Education and Science, 109 evening schools have been established in institutions, 11 secondary schools have been established in the correctional colonies, allowing for the universal education of 13,000 convicts. These and other measures allowed for some positive shifts from all the main activities of the criminal execution system, which were noted both by the Parliamentary Assembly and by experts from the Council of Europe. Briefly on existing reform problems and ways to overcome them. First. The number of convicted persons in institutions, the execution of sentences, and those taken into custody remain considerable. According to existing ratings, we have the number of condemned 100,000 people the eighth place in the world. 416 convicts. In view of this, we consider it necessary to continue the practice of a more balanced application of punitive sanctions, especially for. Crimes. The other one. A highly complex criminogenic contingent requires adequate protection and surveillance measures. [[20.3,000 hold on to deliberate murder, more than 30,000 hold on to serious violent crimes and others]] At the same time, the security forces in virtually all institutions have exhausted their resources, maintained their working conditions thanks to the great efforts of ours. And they need a replacement. Third. There is a need to increase the number of employees and to bring them to the legal standard of 33 percent. To address these and other problems, the Department has prepared draft legislative acts for the further reform of the criminal enforcement system, decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers on the State programme for the implementation of conditions for the detention of convicted and imprisoned persons in accordance with the requirements of legislation, on and on the concept of reforming the manufacturing and economic activities of enterprises which, following approval by the Government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be laid down as the basis for further criminal reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u122	Thank you. Yes. Do you have any written questions? None. Then please sign in for five minutes. So please show me on the Manchulenko board, get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u123	Gregory Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenko Block. Your Honor, today there is a lot of emphasis on new directions for cooperation with the European Union, is it not clear whether the old directions have already been implemented? But new ones are talking about new ones. In this context, your system must also meet European standards and undergo a serious reconstruction, as I think. It is also the detention of prisoners who must also have the right conditions, and it is also the absence of torture within the limits of the deprivation of liberty and other standards that must meet the high standards of the European Union. What is being done now, what is done, and what do you need to do to make the penitentiary system you are responsible for meet high European standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. First: what's done. So, as I've already reported, experts from the Council of Europe have been scrutinizing our system. Recommendations were made in 1996. After these recommendations, we practically all carried them out, and a retest was carried out. That was last April. Again, there were some comments. We're working on them now. The other one. We've adopted a new Code of Criminal Enforcement through the Supreme Council. This code corresponds to the high standards of the European Union, and according to experts, including international ones, it is one with which to go to the European Union. It is only one thing to bring the conditions of punishment into line with this code. And that's what we're working on. What is our main lag from European countries? It's in materially domestic detention conditions. You know the prevailing ideology at the time, when you said you had to be brought up through the collective and in the collective, it led to that. That we, in all our institutions, have been created barracks where 100-120 people were held. Now we're working on the reconstruction of these barracks for the block space. This is one of the directions. We have done much, including borrowing and European experience in changing the content of the work with the condemned. That's the main thing, as they say, is the direction of psychology and pedagogy, and individual education. Torture, as far as I'm concerned. So, exports from the Council of Europe and, in particular, from the Committee on Torture, there are such committees, there are. We notice that there have been complaints of torture and that he has not observed anything else. Here. The situation was that they needed to be improved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u125	Orzhachowski, behind him is Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u126	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Your Honor, I have a question for you. Tell me, please, now our entire country is in a state of pre-election, we will choose the head of our state. What is your point of view regarding the right to vote of those present in places of disqualification? And you realize that in that case, it can't be any transparent choices. Or maybe you have candidates there, too, you could be with the presidents. We now have a lot of them, and perhaps there will be those among them who would like to, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u127	So, about the election, you know, that's a long time. The Soviet authorities did not vote on the criminal execution system. This money for the vote was introduced by the Supreme Council during the years of independence. That is why there is a law and we must do it. And to discuss, I think it's inappropriate. With regard to the transparency of the election in the criminal execution system, we have all the representatives of all those who will be elected there. In addition, there have been nearly two thousand observers in past parliamentary elections, according to our data, including observers from the Council of Europe, and there have been no allegations of violations. In general, we are working to ensure that those convicted during elections are supported by law enforcement agencies. And elections are the work of those who run this campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u128	Please, I announced Bandurk. If you don't mind, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u129	Sir, when we talk about reforming the execution system, maybe we should start with the Department. Where do we turn into the state enforcement service, our system? How do you feel about the bill and the idea itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u130	I would like to point out that the bill that you, Moses and honourable Deputy Carmazin have presented is very important to us, because it deals with a number of fundamental issues of social and legal protection of the individual composition, it allows us to solve the principles of the organization of institutions and their enterprises. [[Thank you for asking, Alexander Markovich.]] So it was adopted in the first reading with a high enough voter rating. I'd like to approach his acceptance. And we have a few more bills that we've submitted. I can call them, but I'd like to bring them closer. All of this will speed up the transformations that are to take place in this system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u131	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich, please sit down. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Chief of the Tax Police, Zwaljuk Viktor Romanovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Since its creation, Ukraine’s State Tax Service has undergone constant reform. This is primarily due to the need to respond to the changes in legislation that have taken place in recent years. First of all, this is the transfer to tax authorities in 2000 of control over the production and circulation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. In this regard, the DPA has established the Administration of the Excise Congregation and the Tax Police Unit to combat the illicit circulation of excise goods. This helped to significantly reduce the shadowy circulation of alcohol, alcohol, and the influx of the excise congregation. In order to service large taxpayers in the form of specialized tax inspections in 6 district centers and Kiev, the main tax police departments have been established. With the aim of introducing a national anti-money-laundering and terrorist financing system in Ukraine, in accordance with the Convention ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 December 1997, the Department of Anti-Laundering was established in the DPA of Ukraine in July 2001. This department does not have the functions of the pre-trial investigation body, nor does it have the right to carry out operational-search activities. The anti-corruption functions of the DPA authorities have also been placed on the tax police to ensure the safety of its employees against unlawful attacks. In connection with the President’s decree of June 23 and the President’s order of June 21, this year to strengthen the fight against corruption in the State Tax Offices, these functions have been assigned to the anti - corruption departments and the interregional operational units directly subordinated to the Ukrainian DPA. Taking into account that a major threat to the economy is posed by fictitious enterprises that use the budget to dispossess large amounts of value added tax costs, tax police units have been created to prejudice and expose these criminal acts. Over the course of their activities, unwarranted VAT compensation for more than 8 billion dollars has been warned, and in the last two months of the year, for 2.6 billion dollars. The operations of 31,000 fictitious enterprises and more than 1,000 commercial centers have been dismantled. In the process of reform, the number of tax police units has decreased from 512 to 248. The personal composition of the tax police is based on the detection of serious crimes, resulting in an increase from 11 percent in 1997 to 96 percent in the current. Thanks to the amendments to the Criminal Code adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, persons who have for the first time avoided paying taxes of up to 355,000 dollars in the event of voluntary payment of the sums charged are exempt from criminal liability. In recent and current years, 2.8 thousand persons have been released from criminal liability who have voluntarily paid about 200 million dollars. During the operation of the tax police, $22.3 billion was removed from the shadow sector of the economy. On the average, one tax police officer per year provides an income of about 300,000 dollars, nearly 25 times the cost of maintaining it. Further reform of the tax police is being carried out as part of a tax service modernization programme. On 20 November 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At present, the relevant authorities are aligning draft amendments to the National Tax Law, which, inter alia, provides for the maximum computerization of the taxation system with the aim of reducing interference with the household activities of tax payers and ensuring an appropriate level of service during their service. Increasing the social protection of the tax police would help to amend the Act on the Status of Military Veterans, Veterans of Internal Affairs. The bill is already supported on the profile committees. Let's hope for his acceptance. We are grateful to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for creating a legislative framework for tax services, improving tax legislation, in our opinion, will help to raise the level of voluntary payment of taxes, reduce tax pressure, increase revenue for all levels of the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u133	Thank you. No written questions? Please sign up. Do you have any letters? Then as long as the recording goes, please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u134	The first question is not to submit a bill on the inclusion in the tax police of the Department for the Laundering of Dirty Resources. Dear National Deputies! You know that prior to the creation of the Derfinmonitoring, all the connections of our State to an international organization such as FATF were carried out by the State Tax Service and by this Department of Dirty Money Laundering. This Department has developed a government's programme for the laundering of the funds that have been approved and a draft law has been developed. That's why this Department is not a law enforcement agency, it's deprived of the functions of intelligence, knowledge and forensic investigation. And FatF's requirements at the time were that it didn't belong to the force structure. So he was just in the DPA. At present, in reforming the tax service as part of the modernization of the draft law, proposals have been made to refer it to the composition of the Tax Police.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u135	Yes, please explain the list of enrollees. Yellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u136	Please pass the word Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u137	Manchulenka microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u138	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. An honourable reporter, no one is a secret to today, that the Tax Administration, especially the Tax Police, is becoming a penal body in the hands of an overpowered candidate for the presidential post. And this applies to every area, including in many cases in the Montenegrin region. I'd like to comment on that. First. Tax Administration is a fiscal authority. How do you see the fiscal body in the Ministry of Finance system, as is the case in many countries, including in European countries, and we seem to be longing, as the authorities claim, for European integration? And the second. Is it necessary in this case if the fiscal authority enters the Ministry of Finance's Tax Police system? Would it be appropriate to get it back into the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, in fact, so that the taxpayer, as a fiscal entity in the Ministry of Finance system, would be involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u139	Thank you for asking. First of all, the penal authority, I can't say that. Because we do have fewer people drawn to criminal responsibility. I've given you the figures that 2.8 thousand people are exempt from criminal responsibility, who for the first time committed these offences and voluntarily paid taxes. Perhaps it is a matter of raising our tax payer so that he can voluntarily pay the sums charged. With regard to the transfer of tax services. She was already at the Ministry of Finance. What have you seen? Tax police were also in the IMF system. Perhaps the legislator decided then, and the government decided that it was necessary to create a separate body, a separate department, in order to make taxes more effective in our country. And what kind of decision the legislator will make next is what we will do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u140	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u141	The second question. With regard to the formation of unified units to combat corruption and to subdue them directly to the Ukrainian DPA. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there have been a lot of questions about the value added tax. For this reason, there is a presidential decree, there is an order by the President to increase the fight against corruption in the authorities of the State Tax Office. According to the law, these functions are performed by the tax police. We had anti-corruption units in separate DPAs, as well as operational units of an inter-regional nature. In order to test managers and performers on the spot, we decided to arrange only DPAs for Ukraine. That is, on a principle that should not be managed by those units that control it. As a result, efforts were combined. Now we're in a new project that's going to be proposed and going through the committees on these issues, and we've foreseen it. So that they can be implemented in a legislative way. And for today, the Anti-Corruption Authority is the only body that accumulates all of these processes, it's located, it's in the DPA of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u142	Please, Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Romanovich, please indicate immediately after the registration of the draft Tax Police Elimination Act, there have been a lot of fluctuations in the officers of the tax police looking for a job, discussions have begun: why don't we need a state? How is that a question? Has it been possible to reduce the flow of young people? And your view of these things at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u144	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, for that? And thank you to the national MPs who even took this issue out on the committees, we've discussed it three times. Indeed, more than a thousand people have applied for exemption because they have completed a special education facility, which is the Irpine Academy of Tax Services, and there they teach how to collect taxes and how to expose tax crimes. So these coworkers tried to move into other structures, but other law enforcement structures didn't take them, so a lot of them went into business, a lot went into teaching work and so on. To be glad, this process is now over. We held bush meetings in these regions, explained to the coworkers that we need to work, that we need to fill in the budget, and you can see that the efforts of the tax service are focused on taxing the added value of ensuring effective administration and sharing of criminal taxes with such transparent taxes. We now have pilot projects in Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk region based on large enterprises such as Krivorizstal!, Zaporozhi district - Zaporzistal, Azovstal, Illich Metallurgical Combine. And by the end of the year, we're going to be testing the system that will be implemented from January of next year throughout the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u145	Thank you, Victor Romanovich. Have a seat, please. Igor Vasilovich Drizcany, deputy head of the Security Service, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u146	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In recent times, the issue of reforming the Ukrainian Security Service has increasingly been the subject of parliamentary attention. During the past four months alone, they have broken down in two professional committees, and there are active discussions, including MPs and groups. Communication strongly shows that parliamentarians and service management have a common position on the objective and task of reforming the Ukrainian Security Service. It must be transformed into a special service of modern design capable of effectively countering threats to national security, protecting the legitimate interests of citizens, society and the state, working under the conditions of an active system of democratic and civil control. I would like to remind you that this is the principle of the position of the President of Ukraine, who, a year ago, put the necessary tasks before the Security Service. The most important ways in which they are carried out are to ensure national security. I'd like to brief you briefly on what's going on. In February of this year, the Department of Intelligence was established. This unit has consistently implemented a program of increasing powers and intelligence in line with modern needs. I think that the relevance of this work, especially in view of the tragic events in other countries, does not require further comments. In line with the task of reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations, the process of reforming the military counter-intelligence bodies is under way. The activities of the military counter-intelligence department have been restored, one of the main tasks of which is the counter-investigative provision of Ukrainian peacekeeping contingents. Work to combat corruption and organized crime has also been strengthened. The emphasis in this activity has been shifted to exposing corruption in the higher echelons of power. The most important task of the recently established General Administration of Legal Security is to improve the regulatory framework for the operational and service activities according to modern requirements. To this end, a comprehensive review of the scope of the notified acts will be initiated, resulting in the creation of an updated regulatory system for BSIs. To carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine, a draft concept for the reform of the Security Service has been developed, and its essence is to build a service as a legal civilised body for the protection of the democratic state, of all its institutions and of its citizens. It should be noted that the work on the project takes into account a number of comments and suggestions made by the National Security and Defence Committee. This document is now being processed by the experts at the National Academy of Security Services and the leading professional scientific institutions at the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. I'd like to inform you very briefly about the main positions of the concept project, which you can get to know in full. First of all, there is a separate intelligence function that should result in the creation of the State’s external intelligence service. The aim of this step is to strengthen the role of the intelligence component in the state, further delimiting the exploration and counter-investigative activities of the BSS. Second: transfer of military counter-intelligence to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. This task is seen as promising in the overall context of the ongoing reform of the Armed Forces. Finally, bringing the status of the Ukrainian Security Service to the standards of special services, which means refusing to perform law enforcement functions in the future. It is a matter of depriving the ministry of future powers that duplicate the authority of other government agencies or that do not belong to a special service. It is quite clear that the implementation of the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution, such as the establishment of a system of pretrial investigation and control bodies in the State, should be preceded by specific measures in this direction. We are fully aware that the implementation of these and other concepts requires solving a number of problems of a political, legal, economic and organizational nature. Taking into account the need to preserve the unity and leadership of the system in the complex process, it is suggested that we choose an evolutionary progressive model of formation. Clearly, the legislative provision of the process is either the most important component of reform. That is why the final position of the draft concept contains a detailed list of normative acts that are already essential. To our conviction, at the time of the development and approval of the Ukrainian State Security Act. He needs to clearly define the interaction of service with other authorities in the field, as required by the National Security Framework Act. Moreover, the adoption of the Law on State Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u147	Yes, thank you. Do you have any questions? Yes. Then, please, five minutes. Answer me. Sign up. For the time being, answer the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u148	The Ukrainian Security Service is mentioned in written questions as to why the government, IMF, SBA and other Ukrainian forces are not interested in eliminating the imbalance in the pensions of military personnel, internal affairs officials. Why are pensioners denied a pension, as stipulated by the Ukrainian Law of June 15 of this year? Well, I can only answer for the Ukrainian Security Service in this way. For only 5 years from 1999 until then, the Security Service has initiated 19 amendments to the 43rd article of the Law on the Retirement of Military Servants, the Primary and Private Staff of Internal Affairs and some others. Our proposals were just the basis for the adoption on June 15, this year of the Law on Amendments to Article 43 of the Law that I mentioned. To meet the requirements of this law, which comes into effect on January 1, the corresponding calculation of pensions for military personnel is already under way, and this law will be implemented on January 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u149	Yes, please explain. Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u150	Please pass the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u151	Manchulenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u152	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear reporter! A few questions for you. First. The Ukrainian Security Service Act. He was accepted long before the adoption of the new Constitution of Ukraine and many of its provisions today do not fit the Constitution. When will a new bill be drafted that meets the requirements of the Constitution? The other one. The concept of reforming the Security Service, which was to be submitted to our profile committee in June, is unfortunately not. Third. It's commendable, after all, that you're positive that military counter-intelligence will go to the Ministry of Defense, but this process should not be unlimited, it should be determined in time. I don't think we can drag this problem far. Next. Nevertheless, I believe that the SBU should remain a national supervisory authority. And a local question. A trinity. How do you feel about the fact that this is a terrorist act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u153	With regard to amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Security Service Act, which was accepted into the current Constitution. As you know, many changes and additions to this law were made, at least in 2002, and not only. We consider the preparation of the Security Service Act to be more faithful, changes and additions to this law, an integral part of the legislative reform of the Security Service, as he mentioned. The concept, which, by the way, was sent to the committee on June 15th of this year, and we have the conclusions of the committee and the comments that are more broadly taken into account in the next project, so the concept proposes to make changes and additions to a whole range of laws, including what you said. As far as military counterintelligence is concerned. It's not a simple question. There's so much about and counter. We study it comprehensively, taking into account all the factors, including the ongoing process of reforming the Armed Forces in the state. Of course, this process should be determined at the time, but if you pay attention, there is no military counter-intelligence within the framework of the military force at all. This once again shows that the issue of security sector reform should solve everything in a complex, cannot be reformed only by the BAF without touching, say, the IMF, the Ministry of Defence and others. As far as the Trinity case is concerned. How do I feel about this? I feel that way. As defined by the Criminal Code of Ukraine. One person died as a result of the injuries inflicted on 13 persons. I think that the qualifications given to these criminal acts are entirely in line with the requirements of the law, and the final answers to these questions will be given by the court, which I think will take place later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u154	Please write.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u155	There are no more questions in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u156	None. Then Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u157	Thank you. Verni Dubov, Sevastopol, “Ukraine” faction. Dear Igor Vasilovich, I am very pleased by your cooperation with the MPs when you say that together you are preparing the concept for the development of the SBA. But I heard for the first time, maybe you weren't talking about whether you're saying you're working on new functions like there's not going to be any special forces hybrid or law enforcement. And it's like you're going to leave law enforcement, and you're only going to do specific functions for this service.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u158	In fact, it is the status of the Ukrainian security service today, which is defined by law as the law - enforcement body of a special assignment and the status. Which state would like to provide a future security service for Ukraine. The political state has to determine: What does it want? A law enforcement body that should respond to every finding of a violation or a special service tasked with searching for information on negative trends and factors. These include the State’s threats to the State’s external and internal plans. If you would like to know my point of view, it is is that Ukraine's security service should become a special service, but the process of reform should be evolutionary, given that there are a number of functions that we can't do today without damaging public and social interests. It's the resolution of this process and the concept of reform that you're going to consider, I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ivan Vasilovich and other colleagues, let us not relax. The concept is a concept, and the service is a service. Dear colleagues, the time has come when counsel is needed. We have 12 minutes to complete the meeting. This once again shows how, in pursuit of corporate, committee interests, we are doing a good job. We're here today instead of one government day, where a lot of reporters have planned, and you see what this leads to. We still need Moses to speak from the profile committee, he's asking for 10 minutes. The Attorney General's office is five minutes away. And so on and so forth. So let's do it this way. In accordance with the Rules, I continue our meeting for another 15 minutes, for no more. Let's ask Moses to speak instead of 10 for seven minutes. And those who will be of the faction, not five minutes at a time, but three minutes at a time. Do you have a deal? Please, Vladimir Romanovich, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u160	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'll try. Honorable colleagues, national MPs, respected members of the government, respected ones! Today, for the first time in 13 years of our state's independence, the issue of reform and the legislative provision of law enforcement agencies on the day of the Ukrainian government is being considered. We owe the voters, in front of all the citizens of Ukraine, taking away their information from an extremely topical issue. We owed it to the law enforcement officers themselves, and we did not seriously analyze the situation in which they had to work and live. I can tell you that today, members of our committee have been expecting, as they say, to hear from the very first lips where our law enforcement agencies are moving. Because, in spite of systematic invitations, including on behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leaders of some law enforcement agencies have never considered our committee to be present at meetings to discuss the issue of law enforcement. Thus, it is not surprising that changes in the functioning of law enforcement agencies can only be partially recognized by their actual reform in accordance with the requirements of the development of the democratic rule of law, the realization of their constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Most of the proposed administrative money does not have enough impact on the reform of the law enforcement system, as evidenced by the lack of positive, qualitative distortions in its functioning. As a result, the numerous appeals of citizens to higher authorities with complaints of illegal acts or of the inaction of law enforcement officials, their abuse, their rudeness, and their disrespect for man, or their request to protect them from law enforcement officials themselves. The lack of systemic capacity in the development of the Cabinet of Ukraine for draft legislative acts that ensured the functioning of law enforcement agencies at a qualitatively new level leads to the fact that bills that are prepared and submitted by the government on this issue are often at odds with each other. Take, for example, the State Automobile Inspection. Whatever it was. Road patrol, Cobra Special Battalion. A special task force has now been created to transfer the functions of individual traffic control units and the police administration. It is obvious that all of these experiments are carried out by the Ministry without appropriate changes to the laws in force, usually by a sufficiently well-known order from the Ministry. All the proposals made by the Ministry of Reform of the State Inspectorate are one thing: to give these workers the right to impose and impose administrative fines on their own. Unless this is done to ensure road safety, to protect drivers, or to protect pedestrians. It is not uncommon for us to see the work of DAI’s services in a completely different way, including without a basis for ordering, and such things are delayed by the entrepreneur, the MPs, and so forth. It should be said that law enforcement agencies, not authorities, should function in the State. Without ensuring the proper execution of internal crime detection and public order, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is now taking on the establishment of counterterrorism units. Again, it seems that in our country it is possible to do so without proper laws and a sufficiently well - known order. Let me ask you, Your Honor, how can we be sure that the fight against terrorism refers to the powers of the Ukrainian Security Service and this is clearly defined by the laws of Ukraine. At the same time, the Ukrainian Security Service, as indicated by the speakers, is now performing nonmilitary functions and others that are not available in any other state of the world. The committee is deeply concerned about the issue of tax police reform. In addition to the fact that during the last session, individual national deputies made proposals for the transfer of this service to the Ministry of Internal Affairs from the Government of Ukraine, there are no proposals on this issue. In July of this year, the State Administration of Ukraine issued orders in all areas, cities of Kiev, Kiev, and Sevastopol, which were created in parallel with the already functioning tax administration of the police, which were not provided for by the law. Generals in these ranks are released from office by the age of 33 to 50. And those assigned to them within a few months also become generals. In fact, 15 generals have been released from the tax force since 1998 alone. In the central office of the State Administration, 18 substitute heads have changed. In Winnicky, Odessy, Cherkas region, five heads of the State Tax Administration. In Zacarpatski, Zaporziski and Kyivsky, four at a time. There have been several changes in the deputy minister’s internal affairs, and district officials are not even willing to mention it. To illustrate: In the Lviv region, 8 heads of district administration of internal affairs changed in years of independence. Such a “reform” in the paws of law enforcement gives rise to the uncertainty of workers on tomorrow, cannot inspire daily work, but rather will lead, in a mild sense, not entirely neat actions, to a personal decision for himself and today. Human rights policy, when changing a person's name to the Attorney General, the Minister of Interior or the Head of the State Tax Administration in Ukraine, changes the entire management vertical only because of the personal preferences of these leaders, is in our opinion harmful to the entire Ukrainian law enforcement system. Because all of this is done outside the law and is the result of the unprecedented self - control of senior officials, who constantly pull the staff log under them. The criteria for evaluation are not professional and moral qualities, but personal loyalty and willingness to carry out any, including, illegal orders and instructions. I would like to say that the analysis of valid laws in the field of law enforcement provides an opportunity to isolate the main legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u161	Let me finish. Finish up, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u162	Adam Ivanovich, you're in a hurry. We have been preparing this question for a month, and I need literally five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u163	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u164	It allows for the identification of the main legislative principles of law enforcement, the conformity of their activities with the rule of law, respect for human rights and freedoms and the citizen, non-partisanism and depolization, democratic accountability and transparency of their activities. At the same time, these principles did not become decisive in the activities of our State’s law enforcement agencies. A clear indication of the departure from the depoliticization principle is that the police should be involved in politics, that the militia teams are planning a celebration if the candidate wins the election. Political tasks are publicly viewed as subordinates. As a result, internal affairs are influenced by political structures and, in some cases, by events in Donetsk and Mukachev, by business and criminal structures. Today, the power structures are deeply involved in the electoral campaign. This is vividly indicated by the warning on behalf of the three forces that some opposition headquarters are preparing various dangerous provocations to destabilize the country’s situation. This has not been the case in Ukraine in the last 13 years of independence. To avoid wasting time on other issues, honourable colleagues, the committee prepared a draft ruling on the matter. Please support him. But given that we are having a hasty talk and discussion today, we would like the vote to be held on the day of the decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. And I'm sorry for the sublime speech. It's connected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u165	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. You didn't do it in a sublime way. You did it in the right way. Do not repent or talk to yourself. Dear colleagues, we have a delegation from the National Council of the Slovak Republic on Defence and Security at the Government Day meeting, headed by Kalinjak Robert. Let's welcome our colleagues. Yes, we continue the meeting. From the Committee on Defence and National Security, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov Please, three minutes. Get ready from the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! The need to reform the force field of doubt, I think, is not challenging. A positive example of a well - thought - out approach to this area may be the work of the reformed state - border service. In recent years we have passed a number of laws regulating the activities of state security agencies, such as intelligence, counterintelligence, the fight against terrorism, and the protection of classified information. But 7 years after the adoption of the Constitution, it is not enough that, despite repeated appeals to the President to meet the requirement for approval by the Supreme Council of the General Structure and Number of the Security Service. Unfortunately, this service remains largely out of effective control by the Supreme Council. Our committee has supported the development of a concept for reform of the Security Service to be approved by the President. It's about bringing the system of security organs, their methods of activity in line with the current conditions, more clearly determining the authority of the Security Service, releasing it from functions that don't fit today's realities. This should be reflected primarily in the new State Security Act, which was adopted in 1992. We hope that the President will soon introduce to the Supreme Council a draft law on the number of the Security Service, as well as the administration of state security. Respectful colleagues, dissatisfaction with overcrowding, and shortcomings in the activities of law enforcement agencies are understandable. But let's be honest. It is impossible to radically change the situation for the better without amending the Constitution. Until the Supreme Council has authority over personnel assignments, until the powers of parliamentary committees are established in the Basic Law on the exercise of supervisory functions to talk about the real impact of Parliament, particularly on human resources policy in this area, are very problematic. In the meantime, some of the human resources decisions that have been made recently about the BAF system, other power structures, the defence and industrial complex are hard to understand, they sometimes cause surprise, resentment, if not to say more. How can we torpedo the reform of the political system in such a way that we speak for the way the representatives of our Ukraine do, so that the head of the Security Service will be appointed and relieved of his office as President without any involvement in this Supreme Council? [[B in m in s a l in]] In our view, further steps are needed to strengthen the monitoring of the activities of law enforcement agencies by the Supreme Council. In the parliaments of many nations there are special specifically designated committees that control the activities of such specifics, I would say delicate spheres, such as security agencies, intelligence and counter-intelligence. Maybe we should, too, want to reflect it in the decision to be taken by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u167	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Deputy Attorney General Ivan Vasilovich has the floor. Please, three minutes, Ivan Vasilovich. We move on from factions, to prepare Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Today the issue is being considered, which depends on the successful construction of the rule of law in ensuring the rights of citizens of the rule of law and order in the country. The reform of law enforcement is an important component of judicial reform in the State. However, this process cannot be an end in itself. The main measure of change that needs to take place in the law enforcement system is the question: would it be better for people than them, how would they affect the socio-economic situation? We need to learn from the reform of the judicial system, not to make similar mistakes about law enforcement. There is a need for deep analysis, foresight, and foresight. The main tasks of improving the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the context of the overall reform of the law enforcement system are the legislative and organizational solution to problems related to the enforcement of laws, the definition of effective approaches to the implementation of the functions of the Prosecutor's Office and the establishment of the optimal structure of its organs. The most important issue is to ensure the rights of citizens at all stages of criminal justice, in criminal investigations, in criminal proceedings, in the execution of sentences. The draft of the new Criminal Procedure Code provides for a reformed model of the pretrial investigation system, improvements in activities supporting the state's prosecution in court and the participation of the prosecutor in criminal proceedings. It should be noted that we have become overly engrossed in ensuring the rights of the accused to commit crimes and that the other party are victims, that is, those who have physically and morally suffered crimes have not created the necessary legal conditions to secure their rights in criminal proceedings. The review requires the authority of the prosecutor to supervise the enforcement of the laws by the authorities that carry out the search and search activities. Unfortunately, current legislation does not justifiably limit the role of the prosecutor in the exercise of this constitutional function. In the representation of the interests of citizens and the state, the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which we used to call general supervision, has been transformed. I'm just going to give you one statement from the Attorney General's order on this area of work. "To use response measures to protect business subjects from unsuspecting, baseless, unscheduled checks." Ladies and gentlemen, an active work has begun with the radical reform of the organization of the prosecution's activities in all its directions, which are still going on. All the information, the procurator's standard database, has been updated. A single system has been introduced for the organization of prosecutorial supervision of law enforcement by the authorities conducting research, forensic investigation and operational investigation. A number of organizational and practical measures have been taken to bring about the work of the prosecutor's office in the area of combating corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u169	Yes. Complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u170	But their human resources, substantially reformed by the D.A.'s D.A.'s D.A.'s transport system, has done a great deal of work to strengthen the co-ordination of all the D.A.'s systems, have begun active work with the introduction of scientific and technical achievements into the D.A.'s activities and. computerization at all levels. Honourable participants in hearings, in order to successfully reform law enforcement bodies, it is necessary to create an appropriate legal basis, including the adoption of a law on crime prevention, a new law on the fight against corruption, amendments to laws on the fight against organized crime, etc. The process of reforming the law enforcement system is ongoing, and the Prosecutor's Office, I am confident, will make a contribution to this important state case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, the faction of the Socialist Party has Boki. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u172	My colleagues from the Socialist faction and I have two specific examples and two very specific questions for today's reporters. In the city of Berdjansk, Zaporozhye, the hour for the fire chief to buy a house near Antonina Vasilovna Corsun. And he thought of taking the water home, having a conflict with his neighbor, because Mr. Xinchenko did do some damage. And that same bad hour had prompted him to call the militia's next gear. He also beat Antonina Vasilovna, her sister, and their father. She complained 18 times about the criminal behavior of the Corsun militia in the district attorney's office, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, the courts. Finally, I reached Victor Yanukovic’s central electoral headquarters. After that visit, two militia officers came to her, put a gun on her side, and asked too strongly to take their complaint to the presidents and to the acting Prime Minister. They ask: Janukovic is not the President yet, but he's coming from him or the militia with the guns, and what do we have to wait for after the election? And I'll ask the minister, although he's out there somewhere in Astana with the most expensive body. Who's your police officer? Law enforcement or armed bandits? What reforms that the reduction of generals can help solve this dilemma? Example two. There is a well - known history on Zacarpatha with the Hamen village head of the Irsav region of John Hicko. The husband abused the position of duty, forged documents, and bribed. A criminal case was brought against him, but the court punished him purely symbolically. The D.A. called off the appeal, and Hitchka's still in charge. The whole secret is that he's a member of the CDC. And I'm asking the missing Attorney General. What, do we have an already ruling party that has the right to cover its criminals? Two examples, followed by the face and morals of the compatriots. A soldier's man is nothing. A man in power is untouchable. And that's not in the tall ones. It's in the density of life where everyone knows and sees everything. That's why I'm scared. A soldier is not protected by anything or anyone in Ukraine. As socialists, Alexander Moroz's party asks you: What is the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office doing? Well, the police are clear. A minister whose main concern is to save the regime and then three days to drink, to break the Constitution, by law. to a political struggle. What about the D.A.? And the D.A. is doing some research without the originals, the records, and he says it's all settled. I think the truth is that Ukraine is deliberately and consistently becoming a police state. The opposition is made by terrorists. An example with Trinity is that of a pattern. And the terrorists themselves, they don't catch, they don't cover. No one has punished the crusaders and, in particular, the main crusader, Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u173	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a happy opportunity to welcome today our fellow citizens, who have recently celebrated our nation throughout the world. Today, the Chief of the Supreme Council has just presented our highest prizes to the 28 Olympic Games of the Supreme Council. Let's give them a warm welcome. And what's more, my dear colleagues, you know very well that there are a lot of people who carry the drive, first of all, Major Jan Kloczkov of the Internal Service, and so on and so forth. We are just listening to questions about the activities of law enforcement officials. The word is Mr. Nadrag, the "Soyuz" group. Get Verni Dubov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u174	Good afternoon, fellow officers. I absolutely agree with Adam Ivanovich that it is simply unacceptable to spend government days like we have today. And I think there's definitely something here to say about thinking about and thinking about professional committees. The two questions raised at one and a half o’clock are a matter of genuine concern. But back to the subject and to what there is. Regrettably, the Rules have been shortened, so I will speak in detail. First. I would like to clarify, however, by the time we have five departments in the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Taxation. Customs services in the Ministry of Defence will be operated by separate units that fight economic crime. We have so much to do, and the crime remains. I believe that, in this case, we must still consider that there must be a single State structure that deals with economic crime. Next problem. We are talking so much about the reform of Gosavto inspection. But I have a question: did all the reform end in the introduction of new numbers where the digital numbering of regions was replaced by a letter? [[That's what the voters are asking.]] A general national letter series has also been introduced. How this has affected the safety of our roads!? But there is also a basic theme that I would like to focus more on. First and foremost. This is an absolute warning of childlessness and homelessness. This is of serious concern to the public and the public. When I meet with voters, what will the State do to stop homelessness and homelessness, what will the State do to stop drug abuse and other problems?Oh, my God! It is unfortunate to note, too, that the number of homeless children who need State assistance has increased in the years to come. Today's network of shelters for minors and only 94 in the State does not address the protection of children who have been victims of domestic violence and have left those families. The problem of drug abuse and drug crime in the youth environment has become a major problem in recent times. Yeah, the police don't finish up here, and I think there's something to do. At the same time, I think that among the reasons for the increase in drug crime in adolescents, there are also shortcomings in the education of young people, the weakness of schooling, family education, the lack of education, preventive activities in educational institutions. And given that youth organizations, clubs and the like have recently been reduced to a minimum, it seems necessary to add that there is a lack of attention in educational institutions to promoting harmful drug abuse. Therefore, based on what needs to be done. I believe that in the State we must comply with the Ukrainian Law on Juvenile Organs and Services in Special Juvenile Institutions for the Establishment of a Judicial Educators Institute. That's what we have to do. The Ministry of Health needs to expand the network of centres for the medical and social rehabilitation of minors, drug addicts, executive authorities to decide on their funding, the Ministry of Justice to establish a judicial institution with the Supreme Court, as required by law. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Verni Dubov. After him, Bandurka. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u176	Verni Dubov, Sevastopol, faction of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, national deputies, invited! Hardly anyone is satisfied with the work of law enforcement agencies, including their leaders. But they're not always responsible for this, because the rules of the game for them are, in any case, to be adopted in this room. When it comes to reforming law enforcement, it has to be said that the judicial reform that has been discussed for so long has not taken place. And it's not the judges' fault. Man’s access to judicial authorities has become more difficult. The execution of decisions by the courts on household matters discredits the judicial system. The sums of damages to be compensated by the State in connection with the illegal activities of law enforcement agencies are not compensated. The budget, which did not anticipate the cost of these decisions, left the situation at a dead end. The activities of the law enforcement agencies are in many ways discredited in connection with the improper legislative provision of their activities. Checks by operators and business entities are rightly criticized by the media and cause dissatisfaction. The use of law enforcement agencies to destroy a competitor has, unfortunately, become commonplace today. Parliamentarians are also making a serious contribution to this issue, which are being questioned by the prosecutor’s authorities and the police about the verification of the structures. The authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office have a special role to play in ensuring the rule of law in the State. And we need to finally figure out what the prosecutor's office needs and what its role, place and importance are in building our state. Not satisfied that there is a general oversight not only of individual Ukrainian politicians and legal scientists, but also of interstate structures that require us to fully implement the reform of the Attorney-General's Office, in accordance with the principles of the Council of Europe standards. [[in PARE time]] Yet this statement by European parliamentarians about the threat of judicial independence by prosecutorial supervision of compliance and the application of laws is extremely controversial. There was no evidence to support it. If someone threatens the independence of the court, it is not the prosecutor’s office that has no legal authority to do so. Justice and prosecutorial supervision as forms of implementation of the State's functions are carried out in parallel, and the prosecution's action to prevent violations of the law and remove violations is used to unload the courts and facilitate their speedy adaptation to new conditions of activity. In the process of future changes and additions to the current Constitution, it is appropriate to fully compare the functions of supervision and enforcement of laws and investigation of crimes with other constitutional functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to make appropriate additions to article 121 of the Basic Law and thus the content of paragraph 9 of the Transitional Regulations will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u177	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, your time is up. Please, Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national deputies, present! Today we are trying to sum up the reform of the law enforcement system, and if we ask questions, who was the one who was setting up the reform? Who gave the job? where and from whom does it come? This is actually a law enforcement initiative that responds to the need for time to change because laws are changing. That's why I think we should write in our resolve today: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by January 1st to develop the concept of reform of the Ukrainian law enforcement system" and set out what objectives this reform should be pursued, not by the public authorities, but by the Supreme Council, by adopting or approving such a concept. You can't talk about full reform today if you don't have a defined program. The system of pretrial investigation, we speak, is not formed. It is now in four offices. We need to determine the parameters of this system and its competence. Today, indeed, the various departments and ministries themselves share the same functions: combating economic crime, combating drug abuse, illegal migration, smuggling. This too needs to be clearly delimited. And finally, maybe the last question is legal statistics. Each department has its own accounting. If we asked the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Committee of Statistical Information, every department would present its own, and the Supreme Court would give its own. Therefore, the law on legal statistics should also be adopted. You also need a new law in the new edition of "The Police." We've adopted it, it's a stable law, it's been in force for 13 years. But today such conditions have come true for internal affairs bodies in general, especially when new legal arrangements are needed. And finally, my dear colleagues. It's about politics. I hear law enforcement is getting involved in politics. You involve the political powers of law enforcement in politics. For when the cards of violence are scattered in Lviv, the police, who distributes it, which public organization, immediately raises the question: Persecution, political persecution, political activity of internal affairs. We're behind the parties, but we're not out of politics, law enforcement, we're in state law enforcement. Thank you. And I'd like to make a decision at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u179	Thank you. Please, from the faction "Our Ukraine" King.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u180	Dear listeners to the hearing! The issue of reforming Ukraine’s legal system has been relevant for many years. The president of Ukraine has repeatedly set up commissions to make proposals. Deputies of the Supreme Council. The process from the Supreme Council’s rostrum has repeatedly required a report from the leaders of the forces. Even an increase of 3.7 percent in funding in the current year than in the past has not addressed the problems of reforming and improving the functioning of law enforcement agencies. It's a question. What is the situation, and who should be reformed? Let's look at the situation in our country. Law enforcement reports positive, and the president and government officials report on the increase in corruption, shadow capital, the threat of mass destruction. Where is the truth? The truth is that the vast majority of workers are honest and conscientious in their duties, wanting to serve faithfully and fight crime in all its manifestations. Thank them so much for this. They're the ones who make up the benefits of the system, and they're the ones who risk their lives to protect the interests of the people of Ukraine. Sadly, though, there is another aspect of the matter. First of all, it is that, unlike the vast majority of law enforcement officials, the authorities of law enforcement departments and authorities see their presence in the system, using it for the benefit of the political groups that have been assigned to positions today. Hence the numerous facts of the illegal involvement of the force in political activity, illegal commercial verifications, and pressure on the MPs. The investigation of the so - called resonance cases of Gongadze, Alexandrov, Melnicken film, Mukachevo case, and the use of special divisions in election races do not contradict this conclusion. There's a lot of trouble. There's not enough time. I'm going to stop at a staff problem. Human policy is the basis for the functioning of the law enforcement system. Unfortunately, the human resources policy created by the President’s Administration has led to systematic bribery and defeat. For bribes, they are appointed and removed from office. The loyalty of the party led by the President’s Chief Executive is assigned to the title and rewards are given. That's what everybody knows, the government says. In contravention of the laws, all appointments take place through the headquarters of the SDPU, or the administration of the President. Dear leaders, they do not trust you, they have removed you from your direct duties, they appoint you, they report to them. This may be confirmed by the appointment of the First Deputy Head of the People's Party, a member of the SDPU-Satsuk faction. I, as chairman of the commission for the Bank of Ukraine, from this high rostrum, reported that he, in his position as Head of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Ukraine, had brought this bank to bankruptcy, illegally received for his numerous commercial structures millions of dollars in loans that he had not returned to the bank. And his right hand in the previous business in Krucros, and his associate in the leadership of the Bank of Ukraine, Mr. Polituha, is accused by the Attorney General's Office as the organizer of a criminal group. Since 2002, the U.S.S.A. and IMF departments have been searching for this person through Interpol.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u181	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, I've given more than that. It's very good that the largest faction, but all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u182	Nevertheless, the reverend radio, the television audience, the distinguished audiences, for which Satsuk was in office from 12 May 2000, from 12 May to 24 August this year, he traveled from the Captain's reserve of land troops to Major General SBA. What's the credit? Whom did he protect? There's no time. I'm making such an offer that in the absence of time, I'm going to make an offer from the faction to take account of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u183	Please. Yes, dear fellows, we're running out of time. We've taken more than ten minutes. Replica, please, Shurma. One minute off the microphone. There's no need to mention it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u184	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear colleagues, today we were to consider reforming and legislatively ensuring the activities of Ukraine's law enforcement agencies. But once again, as the faction of the united Social Democrats warns, certain political forces are using the rostrum for the purpose of saluting and agitation for their faction. The chairman of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection was speaking. He accuses the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, of warning society of civil disobedience. Please tell me who should respond to those cards that are distributed in the middle. Students' civic action "Time" is the color of the children's incoherence of the shirt they wear, where they clearly call for action of civil disobedience. An example is Georgia, Albania, Belarus. Whom should I react to, but not the Public Prosecutor's Office? And one more thing. Everyone calls for Frank to live on "No time, no time, no time." And your "time" calls.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-14-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, we'll sum it up. I support absolutely those who have rightly complained that we have done something wrong with you. I'm stressing, not the committees that made the proposals, because the committees don't determine, but we vote with you in government days. And we've connected two of these with you, and we've seen that we haven't really had the opportunity to discuss each other fully. So in the absence of time, I would like to pay attention to just one thing. The discussion on this issue has shown that there are problems in reforming law enforcement, but there are problems in that it has a direct bearing on us -- problems in the legislative provision of this reform. So let's work together to actually do this reform and make it legislative. This morning’s session and Government Day are closed. Then we have work on committees and factions. The next meeting will take place next Tuesday.
