ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:03]] Registered -385 A total of 385 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We're continuing our work. Announcing the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Choice. Now, one minute, I'll call it in, then I'll call it in. It is announced for the consideration of the Ukrainian Law on the Order for the Election and Liberation of Professional Justice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 20.12.2003. I'm asking the reporter to get ready. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, at the morning meeting, the faction "Our Ukraine" sent you a letter. In accordance with the Rules, you must announce a list of missing deputies and remove cards of non-members. Please announce the missing persons according to our statement and remove the missing MPs' cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u3	I'm asking you to give me some information on this, and then I'll publish it. Please, from the government, who will report? Pasenjuk Alexander Mihajlovich. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Again, on November 18, 2003, the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of the Election and the Liberation of Professional Judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" was passed. It wasn't signed by the President. And the president made a series of proposals to him, that is, the proposals were up to two articles: part of the first article of the 14th Law. It is suggested to be reprinted. And to the fourth part of the first and the third part of the second part of article 17 of this law. Motivation and that the drafting of a law that has been readopted is contrary to the Law on the Status of Judges, on the Judiciary, and on the Supreme Council of Justice. These proposals were considered by the committee, and the committee supported these positions. I also ask you to support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u5	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, the president of Ukraine has made proposals to this law. The committee considered and considered all these suggestions. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the adoption of a new law, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Election and Exemption of Professional Justice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 2560. Please vote. [[16:04:13]] For 326 The law is passed. The law was passed in a new order. It is announced before the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Archaeological Heritage, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 8.01.2004, registration number 0951. Yuri Petrovich Bogicki, Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with part two of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, allow me to present to you the proposal of the President of Ukraine to comment on the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Archaeological Heritage. The provisions of article 17 of the Act run counter to certain articles of the Copyright and Neighbouring Rights Act. This is the exclusive right of an archaeologist to a publication obtained as a result of field and postpartum research for five years after such studies have been completed. The President's drafting of article 17 states that the archaeologist who carried out archaeological research has the exclusive right to publication obtained as a result of field and field research of the order established in the first part of article 15 and article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. Article 20 of the law is also proposed to be budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u7	Yuri Petrovich, I'm sorry. The committee took into account all the suggestions. Are you in agreement with this new law? If they agree, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u8	We agree. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, under this law the President of Ukraine has applied the veto, made a number of suggestions. The committee has considered carefully, and all the President's proposals have been taken into account. The Minister of Culture's office in the Ministry of Culture agrees with the fact that the law can be passed in a new edition with the President's proposals. So we have every reason to put this question to a vote. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Archaeological Heritage in a New Edition with President of Ukraine's Proposals, 0951 - Registration Number. Please vote. [[16:06:46]] For 362 The law was passed in a new edition with the President's proposals. Thank you. Aah! Now we still have the second law. The Act on the Transfer of Art Collections of the Citybank Association of Art Collections with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, of 13.02, has been published for consideration. In 2003 Reporter of the Minister of Culture and Arts, Yuri Bogucky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u10	It's the same situation, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the committee has examined the president's remarks, taken them into account. Both the committee and the Cabinet of Ministers are asking for support in what is now being submitted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, before this law, the President of Ukraine made four remarks. The committee considered them, took them all into account, the government agrees and proposes to adopt this law in a new edition with the President's proposals. A profile committee supports a similar proposal. No objections? By procedure, please, Valery Assadchev. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have this proposal, of course, I'm going to ask for the support of this bill, but I want you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to remind you that the Supreme Council has decided in due course to complete the construction of the exhibition hall for this collection. Such a decision exists. Regrettably, the government in the budget did not take these costs into account. I had this request that the Supreme Council turn to the government, they're now preparing changes to the budget, and that these changes will provide for these costs, because the collection is very large and there's no place to put it. That's a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u13	I ask the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate appeal to the Government, and the Committee on Budgetary Questions requests that this proposal be taken into account when finalizing the draft Law on amending the budget for this year. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the vote on the adoption of the new Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Art Collections of the Citybank Art to State Property. In a new edition, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Registration number 3224-1, please vote. [[16:09:33]] For 377 The law is passed. National MP, please, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I request your attention. Half a year ago, I was in trouble: I ran into a man in Conche-Sap. After that, I have some very strange things going on with me. I have today called on the President of the Supreme Council to protect me from persecution by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because there has been an abrupt lifting of the expertise, and there have been insidious various investigations. And I want you to give me three minutes to let you know what might happen to any of you. Please put to the vote, Vladimir Mihajlovich, the question of giving me three minutes to inform the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, I have, indeed, received this appeal from our colleague of Chernevski. He assigned committees headed by the National Deputies Stretovic, Moses, and the Regulatory Committee to study the situation and make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Valentin Grigorovich Matviev]] And then let's figure it out. Well, then you're done! Come on, we're in the process of dealing with this. If you insist, I'll put it to a vote. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.10.2003, has been announced for consideration. Deputy Justice Minister Suprun Vasil Fedorovich. I'm saying I'll put it to a vote. But now let's finish the chapter. I said, you insist, I'll put it to the vote. Well, let's finish the question section, shall we?Oh, my God! Wait! Let's get this over with, then I'll ask. So once again, let's finish the question -- I'll ask. Please, Pasenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. On November 27, 2003, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Pesticides and Agrochemicals. It is not signed by the President, and a number of proposals have been made. Yes, the President believes that the standards of this law run counter to the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act and the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 15 September 2003 on measures to improve the efficiency of public administration in the field of environmental protection and the use of natural resources. That is why the President proposes some paragraphs of article 1 to be made available in a new edition. [[paragraph 3 and paragraph 7]] In addition, make changes to article 11 as well, make some points in the new edition, and make changes to article 2 of this Law in some parts of this law. [[This is paragraph 12, paragraph 10 and paragraph 11.]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine are taken into account by the Committee on Agrarian Policy. There is a proposal for a committee to vote on the adoption of the law in a new edition. With the proposals of the President of Ukraine. No objections? I am voting for the adoption of the new Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 2070. Please vote. [[16:13:36]] For 365 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 24.12.2003, is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3581. Ukraine’s Justice Rapporteur Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The law approved by the National Adaptation Program to Ukrainian Legislation, which was approved in this Hall, met a number of comments by the President of Ukraine, in fact, in the textual part of the law itself, not the program. The committee that considered the president’s remarks agreed with practically all these remarks. Because there was a serious legal ground underneath it. One of the president's remarks is not taken into account. And it refers to the internal parliamentary mechanism. It's about organizing projects that go through the Parliament's Committee on Euro-Integration. The draft law, which is recommended by the approval committee, provides that all the bills should be expertized on this committee. This is a matter of internal parliamentary organization and work. The president denies that this is the subject of this law. I would ask you to deal with this with the understanding that this issue can be taken into account in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine if you are to believe that this mechanism should be involved in terms of the involvement of parliamentary committees in the process of adapting Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation. And so that we can get a successful vote today on the law that will approve the programme itself and allow us to implement it, I would ask you all to support it without exception by the President of Ukraine's remarks and to vote in favour of a new law that will be approved by a programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the legislation of the European Union. Once again, I ask you to consider the importance of this document, at a time that has already been reborn because of the non-approval of this program. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u19	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Roman Zvaric of the European Integration Committee, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd just like to make a little adjustment to what the minister said that the committee agreed to the president's proposals. We introduced the President’s proposal into the law, which does not necessarily mean that we agreed with them, because the President’s proposals are more likely to be of such a cosmetic nature. And most of them, not even that most of the President's 15 proposals count 14. I would like to take a closer look at the proposal that the committee considered appropriate in part, which is that we considered this proposal of the President, which Alexander Volodymyrovich spoke of, in part. This proposal is number three and refers to the order and specificity of the draft legislation which is subject to the legal regulation of the areas of law governed by European Union law. The President proposed to remove from the section paragraphs 1-4, which set out the role and place of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I stress, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular the Committee on European Integration, in the process of examining all the bills coming for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on their conformity with European Union law. The committee decided to consider this proposal in part, namely, to leave the first and the second points unchanged. Explain why. It is known that under article 51 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, Ukraine should adapt its legislation to EU law. However, so far no legislation in Ukraine has prescribed adaptation mechanisms. It was an attempt to create such a mechanism that was made in the preparation of a state-wide adaptation program. She was supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the same mechanism that we have left in this bill is contained in the relevant laws of all countries that now have to become members of the European Union within the next year or for the next three years. This was and continues in Poland, and so does Hungary. A similar mechanism is in operation today in Bulgaria, which is also preparing to join the European Union. Just as we do, the Bulgarian Committee on European Integration is going through all legislative acts to determine their membership in the spheres of law that are governed by European Union law. In view of the above proposal, however, support the proposal, the bill and the adoption of this law c.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u21	Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. But Roman Mikhailovich then I must. Dear colleagues, before this bill, the President made a number of proposals. They're all accounted for, except for the 10th amendment, which is partially accounted for. So I have to put this amendment to the vote, and then we'll continue to define ourselves. Is there no objection? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 10th President of Ukraine, this is page 13. Please vote. [[16:20:34]] For 218. Correction not counted. The proposal is not put to the vote. That's why I'm voting for acceptance. Please, for reasons, please, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to accept this bill. But I want you to know, and knowingly, that you can't agree with the President of Ukraine's proposal, and that reminds us of the Scientific and Experimental Authority on one issue. What question? Regarding the introduction of mandatory legislative expertise in preparation for the introduction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in due course. This situation is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. This is also true of the President's proposal that the proposed expertise on draft laws and other legal acts be carried out by an authorized executive body. You understand where you and I, as the legislative body, are going to be in what position, when the executive body is carrying out the expertise of the bill, when we have the Committee of European Integration, there is the Committee of Legal Policy, there is the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. And that's why I think this position is unacceptable, because it's going to be an intervention in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which defines the order itself, the specificities of the consideration of projects in the Supreme Council. And this is a violation of the rights of the legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u23	Dear colleagues. I can't move. It's only the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Law in the new edition of "On the National Programme on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation" with proposals by the President of Ukraine in a new edition. Registration number 3581. Please vote. [[16:22:52]] For 346 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I was approached by a national MP, Suškević. All right, I'm going to put three suggestions in line. National MP Suškević asked to vote on the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. May I have your attention, please? If you have no objection, I'll put it to the vote. May I have your attention, please? Who is responsible for coming back to the consideration of this bill? I submit to the Rules who are in favour of coming back to the consideration of this bill. Please vote. [[16:23:57]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Chernowitz requires that he be given three minutes to make his position known from the question he has just discussed. So I put it to a vote, I put it to a vote. Who's in favour of supporting the request of the national deputy of Chernevski, give him three minutes to speak. Please make up your mind. [[16:24:40]] For 332 Three minutes, please. Then Jaroslav Suhi. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u24	God, thank you so much for letting me know. I want to tell you something like that. What could happen to any man, even as calm as I am. I've never done anything so bad in my life to any faction. I was in trouble, and I ran into a drunk man at 60 kilometers. The first people in the country carried out an examination, and I drove with a cop who could have been used against me because he was a man of the service. The first person in the country, the order to end the criminal case, it's not to say how many people I've been sitting here checking that I can't plant them all over Ukraine. But it's a little bit of life, and I understand that. Now it's working -- they're raping the investigators to start a new criminal case, I'm saying, and they're doing a new reproduction to make the visibility a mile away, which I kind of kind of ran into. I say to the Minister of the Interior, "Listen, take any Communist MP from whom you want them to be understood." They violently rape these poor people, I just don't know what to say, and of course I do. I beg you very much, I have addressed Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have no one to complain to. Those who do this, let them live in my heart no evil. Either vote or keep that in mind, because I'm nothing to be ashamed of the Supreme Council. They tell me that you will come to the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council will not give you up. I'm not a criminal, I'm not drinking, and I'm not driving anything like that, not to mention that the driver of my height is trying to get three kids to jail after the same time. On the road to death, instead of repairing it and lighting it up, people are killed every day. Well, I'm asking you to protect my honor because it's a problem for me, as serious as it is. Whoever wants to figure it out, I've got Schupik's conclusion, the other people, the first people to determine whether I was right or wrong. It says that this man was in a state of alcohol abuse, that he could just die from what he was. And that's trouble. Vladimir Mihajlovich, why don't you put it to a vote, and have people's deputies back you up, asking me to show or I'll show you what they're doing with the investigation at all, okay? What have we come up with? I'm an investigator myself, and I've seen everything. There's never been such a thing in communism, by the way. While I had dissidents, but I've never seen such a nightmare in my life. And to give you an assessment. Vote it in the hall, please, because it's serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, there's nothing to vote on. I signed a proposal today, a request to three committees: to ensure the legal protection of the committee, legal protection of law enforcement, the fight against organized crime and corruption, and to the Regulatory Committee to request relevant information, and we have received and evaluated this information as necessary. There's nothing to vote for, dear fellows. Well, we'll make it official, please. What do you suggest you do, please tell me? Vote for what? Well, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u26	I'm asking you, Stretovich took it, sent my application to Kolade, which I'm complaining about. I say, "Look, there was no such thing in the Soviet Union! What are you doing?" I want Christmas to bring you to me here, and I'll distribute to you all the material that they're criminals, that's all. And the thing is, they're not gonna plant me, they're not gonna plant me, it's not that simple, I'm gonna defend myself. They rape the people around them. Well, that's it. Vote for Kolada to report my case files to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, this is how I propose. Let the committees make proposals, draft decree. We vote for its inclusion in the agenda and adoption. We're not voting on anything right now. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies of Ukraine to the fact that the re-examination of Bill 3677, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, was unsuccessful before lunch. And many of Ukraine’s national deputies were not in the hall, unable to identify themselves. That's why, I know, you have a lot of factions: they're asking to put the President of Ukraine's proposals to Bill 3677 for a vote. I propose putting the voting procedure to the vote itself. I ask you to put to the vote the very procedure for re-voting President of Ukraine's proposals to Bill 3677. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I do have such a letter. I've counted the number of signatures -- 240 people's deputies. But according to the procedure, I can only act in such a way as to put a motion on the vote to go back to that question, and then you can identify yourself. You don't have to! I just put it to a vote. With the procedure, please. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you this: I'm just being torn apart by different groups of interests. I'm asking questions about the Supreme Council. Identify yourself. Please, Peter Alexiyovich, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in order not to be torn apart by groups of different interests, is hard enough to follow the Rules. In accordance with the Rules, when we consider the issue of the President's proposals, we must put the proposal to the vote of the committee with the President's proposals. If they don't get the votes, it's a matter of overcoming the veto. And if your decision is to return, the vote should be based solely on the Rules of the Veto. And if the veto is not overtaken, the question is considered rejected. We ask you not to introduce any other practice, since today you have the signatures of the faction leaders. At the same time, the roll call indicates that the position of the faction’s leader and position do not match. Therefore, a request not to rape the Supreme Council and act in clear harmony with the Rules. For the stenographer, I'm saying that two factions from this issue have turned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u31	Dear National Deputies! Thank you, calm down, sit down. Come on, your honors, so you don't blame me, I'm acting in accordance with the Rules. There is a requirement to return to the matter. I'll put it to a vote. Who is responsible for returning to the consideration of this matter? I just got here. The question was put to the vote, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u32	Peter Alexiyovich, I was just betting, Suškevich proposed. Suskevitch just offered. I say again, calm down, please, there's a vote coming. What are you offering me?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u33	The factions don't support the leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u34	If factions vote, how do they support leaders?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u35	The factions ask you to take a break, give it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u36	Don't yell, the chairman may give it, I'll give it a rest. Calm down. Calm down, we'll finish the question, I'll take a break. [[16:32:55]] For 231 I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u37	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give me a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! Take your seats. Let's exchange thoughts. Calm down. Let's exchange thoughts, five minutes, please log in. Two in a row, two in a minute. I'm acting according to the Rules. I would ask neither side or side not to blame for this. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready, nigger. Microphone, please, Mikoli Rudzkowski. That's not the list. I'm sorry. Well, that's not the list. The Turks, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that I no longer go to my place, I will speak from the rostrum. I ask that I address the Head of the Supreme Council. Guys, don't bother! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! And respectable colleagues! In this regard, two factions filed an application for a break. So please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that we don't disturb the hall, let's take a break, because after this vote we won't need a break. And by violating the Rules, we will again disrupt today’s session. So I ask you to support my offer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u40	Yes, thank you. Please, Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u41	Dear National Deputies! Let's hear the argument of Deputy Vasadze. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u42	Vasadé, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u43	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to draw your attention to the following. We recently voted with you and passed a law on extending preference for the shipbuilding industry, and we did the right thing because without the industrial recovery, the country would not be able to move forward. The automotive industry is also important today. If you look at the law, it is the producers who are encouraged to do so. And today, all the producers except the two who are here in the hall. It's a Kremenchug car.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u44	Yuri Lucenko, please. Is it Lucenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u45	Lucenko, Ukrainian Socialist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, first of all, I would very much like not to be passionate about this moment, because he remains very important to the entire state, to all the voters of the President's Election Act. And the artificial oppression of the situation now and thanks to you in the hall is not useful. Now it's about this law. Our position is "Autozaz" for today, and no one will take any serious, unprecedented benefits from Ukraine. It is also inappropriate to impose restrictions on other manufacturers. So the question was put to the vote. In the next plenary session, we can catch up and deal with this issue, not with emotion, but with a serious economic argument. Our faction would like to have time to study the matter properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u46	Yes, instead of Slobodan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u47	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u48	Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am speaking on behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine" only to you. I would like to remind you that the order of the President's motions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is determined by a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This decision is final. There's no charge. The violation of this procedure, determined by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is already the basis for constitutional submission in accordance with article 152. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the President's proposal is first and foremost put to the vote, which is what has been done. They didn't get the right number of votes. In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, then the vote is based solely on the question of overcoming the veto, solely on the issue of overcoming the veto. There was an offer to return to that question. This offer did not receive
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u50	Jaroslav Suhi, please microphone. It won't do any good, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand when there's a disturbance in the hall, it's about socio-economic or socio-political issues. But when one particular business structure or business group is trying to focus the negative potential of the Ukrainian people's deputies on not adopting a bill that reveals additional sources of budgeting, I don't understand it at all. I suggest. We voted. It is the will of the Supreme Council, 231 votes in favour to return to the vote. Let's calmly in the session room just by a more democratic method, the voting method for each of us will be defined with regard to President of Ukraine's proposals for Bill 3677. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u52	Committee of Regulatory Committee Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, first of all, regarding the break on which two factions insist today, namely "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Timoshenko" Block, is the right, as defined by the current Rules, to preside over the session: it may or may not grant such a recess. This is the first time. Secondly, when consideration of a matter has been initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this consideration cannot be interrupted. And the question has begun. As, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, I am addressing you, the Supreme Council has voted to return to this issue. So we've already started it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u54	Time's up. I am voting for the adoption of the Ukrainian Automobile Industry Act with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Registration number 3677. I'm not breaking the rules. I'm not breaking the rules. [[16:41:37]] For 234 The law is passed. A break of 30 minutes is announced. The factions, please. I ask you to consider, Your Honor, that we should adopt more responsible laws. What can I do, dear colleagues? Break until 5:00, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u55	Invite the deputies to the session room, we'll keep working. Two factions requested a break. Who will act? Sobolen. Sergei Sobolev, please, for the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u56	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u57	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, two factions took a break to express their position on the final vote. I would like to remind you that when a law was passed in this remote room in 1997 called "To stimulate the production of cars in Ukraine", the law gave the opportunity to all those who are implementing the rules, namely 150 million investments to create tens of thousands of jobs, to create opportunities to pay a permanent salary, and this law has become effective. In my hometown of Zaporozhye, despite the criticism given from all over the place, AutoZAZA rose from the ruins, and 17,000 workers began to receive daily wages just like the workers of Melitotile and other factories who took part in the huge car assembly chain in Zaporozhye. I would like to insist that the bill that was voted today did not give any aid to AutoZAZ or anyone else. All benefits and preferences have been enshrined in the law since 1997, in a law that has allowed tens of thousands of jobs only in the Zaporozhye region and throughout Ukraine. Then why did this factory need it? I call only those enterprises that stop their jobs because now preferences are only introduced for individual enterprises: Zacarpathian Eurocar, Lutsky Automobile, Kremenczuck Autogaz, Krasnodonski "Auto"."The Herson Automobile Factory Antoruse. Why would you do that? In my opinion, in fact, there is a separate financial and industrial group that creates individual preferences only for specific enterprises. This led not only to a split in this sessionary hall but also to a split among the employees of these enterprises, some of whom will now receive a salary, and others will have to stop. And last but not least, it's no secret that a whole range of Ukrainian companies don't produce cars like Mercedes, like Opeli, with a 50 percent representation of Ukrainian manufacturing. This is actually the washing of dirty technologies, dirty schemes to bring elite cars into Ukraine and sell them here at low prices. That's why our factions have taken a clear position of support, indeed, for auto-producers, for whom all conditions are created by existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u59	National deputy saint, procedure, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u60	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! After this vote, the Rules were again brutally violated, contrary to article 3.2. One of the rules in force, and I'm very sorry, but the dirty lobbying won in this room. You just beat the whole car industry. And what I'm saying is, if most people have these differences, I don't know what to do. I fully support the previous speaker, Mr. Sobolev, and I want to say that if such precedents continue to occur, we cannot talk about the Rules in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the chapter on making decisions on the issues under discussion. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Alexander Alexandrovich, please. Well, let's make a decision. From the TSC, temporary special commission, Alexander Aleksandrovich Who will it be, Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish? Okay, I'm sorry. Stepan Bogdanovich. Because I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u62	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Yesterday we discussed this bill: the election of the President of Ukraine. And in the speeches of the people's deputies, and in the position of the Temporary Special Commission, we have testified that it is the result of a broad compromise, even the consensus of all political forces on the procedure of the standards and principles of the organization of the elections of the President of Ukraine. The temporary special commission at its meeting, after adopting the concept, has examined in detail more than 120 pages of the relevant text, which is being proposed to you today as a bill that will allow not only to protect as much detail as possible the democratic standards of the election process of the President of Ukraine, but at the same time to guarantee that such elections will be truly democratic and meet the principles of European democracy. So the Interim Special Commission has decided to recommend that this bill be adopted as a basis, and given that it is fairly professionally employed, it has no serious comments to take it as a whole as a law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, first I will put the vote on the ground, and then we will find out. I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, registration number 2047-d. Please vote. [[new editor]] [[17:21:34]] For 411 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a committee of the Temporary Special Commission to accept this document as a law as a whole. I'll put it to a vote. Well, Yuri Carmazin, please, dear colleagues. Well, it's done, 411 people voted. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u64	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as we considered this bill, we said that this law accidentally fell under the rules that should be contained and contained in the Civil Procedure Code, which we cannot agree with. And that's why. And because there are many more mistakes in this law that need to be corrected, I ask not to be deprived as a national deputy of Ukraine of the possibility of making changes and leading them to your known. If this is done, it will violate my rights as a subject of the legislative initiative. And I'm asking and I'm betting, you. I'm trying to prove to you that the Sci-Sci-Expert Authority made a note of 5 or. I'm sorry, on page 6, and you have to take them into account, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u65	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Then Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, there is money in this law, which in addition to signatures is also a monetary mortgage. My proposal as a national MP -- I ask you not to deprive me of such an opportunity to put up a position that is either a monetary mortgage or signatures. By choice of presidential candidate. So I ask, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as required by the Rules, to prepare this law for the second reading and to take into account the proposals of the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u67	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u68	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". On the subject of what Comrade Carmazin said, I would like to draw his attention and everyone in the room to the fact that we voted today for a new edition of the Civil Procedure Code, where there is no norm on matters arising out of administrative relations. Moreover, the so - called procedural part referred to by Yuri Carmazin applies to more cases in election committees than in courts. The Courts apply the only rule concerning the imposition of appeals against court decisions on electoral matters that are not currently contained in the Civil Procedure Code, and the old Code, which expired on January 1, will no longer be introduced. So I ask that this observation be ignored.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u69	Mikola Rudzkowski. Then Stepan Gavish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u70	Dear National Deputies! The group worked on this law for seven days at 18 hours. The law has been worked out, including all comments made by experts who organized the electoral process, by all political groups. There are, indeed, remarks now in the Hall of Two National Deputies, but the proposals of political groups have been taken into account. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, given that we have over 400 votes in favour of the bill, we ask that we put this law to the vote in general so that we have a democratic law on the election of the President and we can hold transparent, democratic elections. This law can ensure such elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u71	Stepan Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! To an extreme extent, it is surprising to note that the Scientific and Expert Administration has accepted a responsible employee in the working group and meeting of the special committee. So all positions were consistent with the Science and Experimental Authority itself. With regard to the remarks made by Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, the introduction of the pledge is the most democratizing process for the nomination of the candidate to the Presidents because the delay is the reason for his registration. the election commission, and then this candidate is allowed to collect 500,000 signatures. So from this point on, when the mortgage is filed and the candidate is registered, he's also starting an electoral campaign. This provides ample opportunities to effectively run an electoral campaign. So this is exactly what is considered a standard that democratizes the same process. And we're proposing to adopt this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u73	Yes, Victor Terrence, then Roadside and we'll be determined. It's Karmazin's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u74	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, here I have eight comments I have been working on. If there is one single MP under the Rules, we take a second reading. It is the Rules, it is sacred, and it must always be so. Please tell me whose deal is this, and where do I put these comments? I'm a national MP, I have the right to bring them in. And that's why I understand the importance of this law, with two hands for this law, and I'm very glad it's finally coming, but please give at least what's behind the Rules so that we can make these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u75	Alexander the Road, then the replica of Yuri Carmazin, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u76	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, this is a compromising law. Compromise is never by 100 percent of all participants in compromise. But it's a really compromise law where a lot of things change the order of things. Realizing that our colleagues are in a position to make some changes there and so forth, and so on, the President's election will still take place. And here it is important to regulate them as this new practice needs to be done and regulated by the Central Electoral Commission and so on. So there is a request not to create unnecessary problems. The working group worked for a week and a half, including at night. Anyone who wanted to come and see how it works could make their offer. Well, you can't either. So what then? Let's do it again for two weeks. Therefore, there is a request to put to the vote as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u77	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u78	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! In connection with the introduction of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski, I would like to make an explanation for him and, perhaps, for others, that the code that was enacted today is civil and procedural in violation of the interests of Ukrainian citizens will enter into force on 1 January 2005. That's what I'm saying just in case. And the election will be in October of this year. That's what I'm saying to make it clear. Now I'm drawing your attention to the fact that in chapter 12 a whole section of accusations of actions or omissions is being made. For example, in article 99, it even provides for the features of court decisions. I'm not going to quote it so it doesn't embarrass the drafters who change the existing Civil Procedure Code and say they don't do anything. I want you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u79	Andrew School is the last one. The key line is then the last one, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u80	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask that you pay attention to what is true. The law is important, but it does not mean that we should violate another important law for the sake of one important law for all of us. It's a regulation. According to the regulations, if there is a remark, at least one point in the first reading of the bill, it is set aside for the second reading, the amendments are made at a very sharp pace, and next week we have a session, and we will be able to resolve things in a calm, completely normal atmosphere. Plus, there's been an amendment right here in the room to make it in such a way that it's either a delay or a signature. Because we know how easy it is to remove a presidential candidate from the distance according to these signatures. Two or three signatures will be false, and a person will be thrown away. So I propose at least taking into account this amendment to vote here, at least taking into account this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u81	Write a letter and give it to me. So far, Klukkowski is a replica and we're going to be able to determine. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u82	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I would like to draw the attention of my colleague Karmazin to the need to listen not only to what he has written but also to what others say in the hall. I reiterate to him that the Civil Procedure Code, adopted today, will be put into effect on 1 January, and no one will ever change it. That's why, in the 99th article, the protest against which Yuri Carmazin is to be ashamed, which was repeatedly removed from the registration of court decisions, and the right to appeal against the unjust decisions of the judges, who were too many in the 2002 election. So it seems to me that it is Yuri Carmazin who should be primarily ashamed that he, like Baba Yaga, is always against.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u83	They've already exchanged lines, enough, respectable colleagues. They've already exchanged lines. Dear colleagues. Yuri Lucenko, please. Alexander Valentinovich, you've already spoken, that's all. Last performance. Well, that's enough, please! We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u84	Honorable National MPs. I'd like a moment of your attention. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the fact is that there really was only one amendment that Alexander Turchinov made. I have an offer to put to the vote in general, taking into account the amendment of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. This will unite the hall, and there are no problems. Either signatures, or staggers, and this has a normal compromise that will bring the entire hall together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, I'm going to put it to a vote like this. Please listen carefully. Well, listen carefully! I'm going to make sure that we have a consensus here that has been followed by the Rules. I'll put it to a vote. First. Who's in charge of making a decision in general right now? After we are determined to accept as a whole who is behind this proposed amendment and then vote in general. Then everything will be fine. I'll put it to a vote. Who's to step away from the Rules now and consider making a decision on the draft of this law as a whole? Please vote. [[17:33:13]] For 385 So you can make decisions, now you can consider them. I put to the vote the amendment made by the Turkinov People’s Deputies and supported by Yuri Lucenko in order to limit himself to either a congregation of signatures or a monetary pledge. People's deputies would like to decide on the amendment that has just been made by Turkinov and supported Lucenko. Please determine by vote. [[17:33:52]] For-125 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, a new edition, registration number 2047-D. Please vote. [[17:34:21]] For 400. The law is passed. The draft Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, City Councils is under review. Please report by Alexander Alexander Moroz, co-head of the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u86	Yesterday we were looking at, honourable MPs, this project, and we determined that it's complicated by content, but it's perfectly consistent with the law that we've now voted on definitively with the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, which we voted on in the first reading. And that's why there's every opportunity to look at this project today and to accept it in the first reading. Such an offer by the Temporary Special Commission. Further, in the regular order in which any comments are made to this project may be made, and the Temporary Special Commission will consider each of the observations and will bring to your attention the final drafting of this law. This is the entire position of the Temporary Special Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u87	I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, registration number 2211, based on. [[17:35:49]] For 268. Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 19, Ukraine - 49, Communist faction - 59, Industrial and Entrepreneurs faction - 29, SDPU - 38, People's Rule - 14, SPI - 20, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 8, Deminiciative - 4, Agriculture Party - 15, People's Choice - 1, NDP - 5, Postfraction - 7. Out of procedure, please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u88	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear radios, distinguished deputies! I wanted to speak very much before the vote, but I do wish to express my opinion on this bill after the vote. 80 or 90 per cent of voters do not support any political party or movement. This bill attempts to privatize or entrap the party, 80-90 per cent of those voters. I'm just wondering why the drafters didn't put the village there? I represent the picture when there's a vote on the party lists in the village. Such a bill is in general undermining what is called the basic working methods of local governments and the working methods of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u89	Please, Saints, then the Road. Dear colleagues, we still have work to do, we've already finished our consideration of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! I want to say that the bill just adopted completely destroys the system of local self-government. Thus, the territorial community is proportional. Elections would not be adequately represented in their representative body. This law could not have been enacted in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u91	It's expensive, please, then Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u92	Dear colleagues from the majority and distinguished national deputies who voted in favour of this law! I think this vote, including the fact that we know how to make arrangements. And so let me just say, let me just say, thank you for keeping the arrangements. On the other hand, I think this vote just shows that, and the statements now that the law has a very large number of problems that have been realized, including when the working group is working. So the first reading. These words that were said here are a task for the working group, for the Temporary Special Commission to work on this bill, including the very complex issue of election to the Crimea. That's why I'd ask the chairman. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have accepted the project as a basis. This will be limited, and this will be the task of further processing in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, we have considered the bill, accepted it as a basis. So there is no reason to go back and discuss and tell the voters what our position is on this law. A draft Decision on the Summary of Child Health in the Summer of 2003 and on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the organization of rest and the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2004 is being announced. The reporter is the head of the committee of Samuelka Katherina Semenovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, at the beginning of February on Government Day, we discussed the preparation of children's recovery in the summer. There were so many wishes, critical comments about solving the problem, which involved the release from VAT on children’s journeys. Now, with the committee of Sergio Vasilovich Burjak, we are resolving this issue, and a positive decision is being made. Questions were raised about the treatment and rehabilitation of children with disabilities, children with chronic diseases. Questions were also raised regarding the state order for the treatment and treatment of children with kidney disease, orphans, children with disabilities, and many other proposals that concerned, above all, the State support for this very important issue for children and adolescents. And we've offered in our decision information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take into account and concrete measures that are being taken to develop the National Integrated Programme, that were being reviewed and that money was being earmarked for the rehabilitation of the Chernobyl children, because you know that 42 million less for these purposes are being provided, children of peasants, children of parents working in the agro-industrial complex, because zero funds are provided in the State Budget for these purposes. In this regulation, we foresee a lack of admission, a reduction in the cost of child health, and by May 1st, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine needs to determine the additional costs for the rehabilitation of children, including taking into account the possibility of a social insurance fund with temporary loss of employment. We also provide for the rehabilitation and sanitation of children living in rural areas to be restored, reinstated in 2004 and carried out in the years to come. And I'd like to ask you, we've practically accounted for 100 percent of your comments. Perhaps not in the way you proposed, but the comments and suggestions are taken into account and I would very much ask you to vote in favour of this decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to ensure a normal, worthy one. a child - care organization this summer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u95	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u96	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Dear Catherine Semenovna, for reasons of vote, we've given you two observations in the draft decree. [[I'm speaking from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.]] Please tell me if they're accounted for. If not, I'll pass it on to the stenographer. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the aim of costing children's travels to provide sanatorium epidemiological, technical, fire and so on without paying for these services. That's the first one. And the second question. By April 1, this year, proposals were made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the recovery of the benefits cancelled by the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004 on the added cost of travel for the recovery and rest of children. And make changes to the Personal Income Tax Act in the exemption from the cost of travel for children received by parents from the employer. We had three observations. How are they included in the draft decree?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u97	The latest comment on the exemption from child tax is discussed in our committee, on the basis of a review by the Committee of Sergei Vasilovich Burjak. And I know they've also made a positive decision about this. As for the first question, we received them last night and were unable to take them into account, and the others we took into account in the second edition, I would like to ask you, in voting, to have your first remark and your proposal for the work of the sanepidemstation and the cost, and so on, to take it into account in the paragraph of our decree, the first paragraph of your remark. That's a good point, and by the way, it's not just about children's health and sanitation, it's now about, literally, everyone, including businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for a committee on adoption as a basis and for the whole of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Decision on the Summary of Child Health in the Summer of 2003 and on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the organization of rest and the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2004. [[Registration number 5147]] Please vote. [[17:45:23]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We should now consider the inclusion of the day and the decision - making process. There's three bills. But the committees and the drafters of the bill request that this issue be brought forward. There's no objection. None. Then let's do it. Let's move on to the section "In summary procedure" and continue our work for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks is being announced for consideration. Reporting member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich Please, very briefly. To prepare Kaputina Victoro, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u99	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Securities and Stock Exchange Act is proposed. The purpose of the bill is to bring the law specified to the requirements of other laws relating to the regulation of the market in securities and to improve the protection of investor rights. First, it is appropriate to define the activities of professional participants in the stock market between the Securities and Stock Exchange Act and the State Regulation Act. In addition, appropriate changes have been made to the law in question by adopting a law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. These changes relate to the issue of license and licence terms, and to the clarification of the principles of licensing of professional participants. In addition, the bill imposes additional requirements on professional participants in the securities market to increase their claims for statutory capital payments, their size, and provides for the introduction of a process of trading with this separate calculation of the securities and funds belonging to each client. In addition, it is noted that in the case of securities management, a trader should keep a separate account for each customer in the bank. The bill was agreed with the National Bank of Ukraine, ministries, and offices. In the discussion there is support for professional participants — scientists and the Association of Professional Shareholders of the Stock Market, and AUB, and OAI, and PFTS, and others. In addition, there are the relevant conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which proposes that the prescribed bill should be recommended for adoption in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u100	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, this law actually legitimizes and regulates what's going on in the stock market and stock markets and now. So it's actually an activity that's subject to the notion of an underground, brokering activity. activities, activities in the management of securities. In fact, this activity exists, and there's these transactions every day, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and activity, but they were outside the legal field. In order to reconcile all these issues and bring them into line with legislation, this law on amendments to the Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks was drafted. I ask your support for this law because it regulates the stock market in a civilized way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yuri Karmazin, Yuri Anatolyovich, will you be speaking? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u103	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I believe that this law can be adopted in the first reading and there is a reference to specific articles. In general, it is impossible to accept it, please accept it in the first reading. I'll save you some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there no more warnings? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Exchange, registration number 3457. Please vote. [[17:50:16]] For 288 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registered 3284, is being announced for consideration. [[on import duty rates]] Reporter of the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration, Brezny Andri Viktorovich. Get ready. From the committee, who will be speaking? Zushko Vasil Petrovich. Please, let's be more active, we have a lot of work to do, and time is running out. Please, Andrew Viktorovich, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being considered for the purpose of improving external economic activity by correcting import duty rates for certain goods in accordance with the current internal and external markets, taking into account the interests of both domestic producers and consumers of the goods concerned. The bill was drafted following a review by the Ukrainian Customs Council on 17 October 2002. In particular, the law proposes details of commodity codes for iron ores and concentrates. And iron ores and concentrates. defining individual product codes according to the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity without changing import duty rates. The other one. Detailing product codes by. active substances and product nomenclature 4811 paper, coated with polyethylene, reducing the import duty on imported raw materials used in the manufacture of a powder due to the lack of production of raw materials for the production of such products in Ukraine. Third. Reduced rates of import duty on waste and scrap of black metals, iron or steel waste in landfills to zero percent to increase import volumes of raw materials for metallurgical enterprises. Four. Complementing article 19 of the Ukrainian Act "On the One Customs Tariff", which provides for the exemption of goods from import duty at a position -- pharmaceutical products, compounds used for its manufacture, which are not produced in Ukraine and classified by groups 28, 29, 30. This is proposed with the aim of stimulating Ukrainian drug production. And the fifth. The change in the edition of Article 19 of the U.S. Customs Tariff Act, article 19 does not correspond to the Convention on International Exchange of Editions adopted by the United Nations General Conference on Education, Science and Culture. I ask that the economic effect of the adoption of the law be 2 and a half million dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, please approve the draft Ukrainian law amending some of Ukraine's laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u106	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Tsushko Vasil Petrovich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, the Committee supported the bill, proposes to be supported on first and second reading and with the addition of our committee. There is a proposal to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u108	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatolyovich, your position. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think we should not deviate from the Rules in this case, and we should adopt this bill in the first reading. I do not object to accepting it in the first reading, but there seems to be something to make changes and additions. I think that this is the right of national MPs to have that. That we have such a principle as today on the President's election when it was only yesterday that the bill was passed out, and today it was finally adopted -- it was a disgraceful factor, a disgraceful fact for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I am ashamed of those who violate the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the vote of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning import duties, registration 3284. Please vote. [[17:55:23]] For 329 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Banking and Banking Act, registered 3223, is being announced for consideration. [[on the protection of property]] Krotuk Vladimir Leonidovich, deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine Is it? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The National Bank of Ukraine introduces a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking into the Supreme Council as part of the legislative initiative. The bill is designed to deal legally with the protection of banking institutions, the preservation of funds and values belonging to the bank and its customers. According to the Banking and Banking Act, banks are responsible for the proper preservation of their clients’ money. The State is not responsible for the liabilities of banks that, according to the rules established by the National Bank, determine for themselves the types and ways of protecting buildings, funds, and values. Thus, law enforcement agencies are entrusted with managing the money of their clients. However, the proper performance by banks of the legal function of protecting money and client values hinders the absence of an appropriate legal field. The legislative framework for protection activities, in fact, lack of, until now, arms laws, security laws, therefore, it is urgent to create legal grounds for banks to be able to perform their own security functions. Unlike the National Bank, the Savings Bank, the liaison unit, railway transport, which have the right to form its own intelligence unit, banks are not able to ensure that funds and values are preserved properly, since legislation does not give them the right to possess firearms to carry out security functions, and therefore they are forced to address the only possible entity today to provide services to the armed State Security Service at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. This predominant development of this unit in the arms security market hinders the creation of a competitive environment in this area. In addition, the State Security Service monopolizes the cost of providing security services, resulting in a periodic increase. In turn, an increase in the cost of banking services has led to a significant increase in the total cost of banks and, as a result, to an increase in the cost of customer security services. In line with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the first reading of the bill could be based on a basis. The National Bank believes that the adoption of the bill will have positive results, such as reducing bank spending on security services, which in turn will reduce customer service costs and ensure the creation of a competitive environment in the market for security services. In view of what has been said, please consider this bill and accept it on the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u112	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Kaplupin, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is very important for commercial banks that work in our country because it actually regulates a very important moment of their activity: it's saving the funds that are in the banks themselves, in their offices. You know that actually a huge amount of money is stored in banks. They are, of course, protected now, protected by organs, departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Unfortunately, however, for many years there has been a serious conflict between banks, banking associations, organizations, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the settlement of tariffs for these services. Unfortunately, these tariffs are rising, and this is seriously reflected in the operating costs of banks. If we see this growth dynamic, we're going to see figures such that the cost of banks protecting these units is up to 16 percent of their operating costs. This is too much, and this is seriously reflected in those banking services at the cost of those banking services that banks provide. Moreover, this de facto monopolism does not lead to a constructive solution. So the ability of banks to create their own units is usually based on the reconciliation of all these issues with the Ministry of the Interior and the National Bank of Ukraine, in our view, in our committee, to significantly improve the position of banks in this area and in fact to reduce costs, bank costs for this purpose, which usually has a positive impact on the relationship between banks and customers. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u114	Yuri Carmazin, please. Microphone. Are you coming here, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the constituency of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I agree with the many arguments made today by the representative of the National Bank of Ukraine, because you and I have passed an arms law and there are arguments, there are complaints that the State Security Service raises and monopolizes prices that then lie on consumers. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this project provides for the right not only to allow bank security structures to use weapons, which we can predict and require in the arms law, but also to be able to use automatic weapons. I mean, machine guns and machine guns can fit in here. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what I'm talking about. That we have the National Bank in the center of town, the others that we can, what kind of situation can we have? So I would ask, by accepting, to consider the adoption of the first reading, or not to accept, because it can be written into the arms law, but it can be written out clearly. How they're going to see how this weapon is going to run, how it's going to be controlled, how they're going to go through the medical commission and everything. So in general, I would think that with the adoption of the Weapons Act, the need for this law would just fall away if it could be regulated in the Weapons Act. Therefore, if someone does not believe, he can accept the first reading as a guarantee and then make suggestions there. That's the offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u116	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, please. Turn on Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u117	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction proposes not to support the draft Act in Ukraine amending the Banking and Banking Act No. 3223 initiated by the National Bank of Ukraine for further reasons. No legislative act, including the Ukrainian National Security Foundation Act, has defined commercial banks as economic security subjects of the state that need increased protection. [[Part One of Article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The state has no problem with bank protection. If banks have tariff problems, these issues can be resolved in relation to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The other one. When the bill was passed, there was no justification for the withdrawal of a weapon of war outside military formations, law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u118	Please, Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u119	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! It's not even about the costs that come from banks today. God be with him, banks aren't so poor. Every day, they kill incisors. I'll show you pictures of what's going on. It's pensioners' money, workers' money, banks don't keep bourgeois money, it's serious stuff. Nowhere in the world is the police, the police, name at least one country where commercial structures are protecting violently, these unfortunate militias, who, we pay for every policeman for thousands of dollars, get 100 bracelets. [[♪ the poor live ♪]] Get them out of slavery, that's the second question. This is a serious problem because there is no such thing anywhere in any country I do not know. And you're gonna need guards, not knock, right? Who report where they're going every day, the communist, right? And you need people you can trust. [[Applause]] Vote! Because the police are gradually turning into gang formation. It's a serious thing, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u121	And they're gonna kill us all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u122	Thank you. Kornienko from the government of Mikhail Vasilovich is the first deputy minister of internal affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Well, I want to do ahead of time for all this line of speech by Leonid Mikhailovich Czernovecki. Well, it doesn't have to be a national MP to blame the police for what they didn't do. That's the first one. The other one. In many civilian countries, civilised countries, banks are still protected by the police. Third. So in many countries, banks are not protected in the way that the law proposes. First of all, the IMF strongly denies that we should adopt this rule, first of all, because there is no legal basis for this, there are no two basic laws -- the arms law that the national deputy Karmazin spoke of, and there is no law on protective activity. So we ask you not to support this norm, but to refine it when these two basic laws are passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act 3223. [[on the protection of property]] [[18:07:14]] For 277 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? National MP Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin approached and stated. That he withdraws his warnings to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning import duties, registration number 3284. We voted on it as a basis, and the committee's proposal was to vote on it as a whole. But there were warnings in Carmazin. He removed them, so he has no obstacle in order to adopt this law in general. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning import duties, registration number 3284. Please vote. [[18:08:14]] For 301 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we probably have five minutes left, we won't be able to look into it, because we have two laws here. Are we going to consider it or not? Dear colleagues, in five minutes we will not consider two laws, so I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thanks for the job. All those who have taken offense to some decision by the chairman apologize. Tomorrow we continue to work at 10 a.m. on Friday.
