ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:11]] There were 424 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are being held at the morning session of the Ukrainian Government. To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 21 September 2004, the subject of our consideration will be the government's information on the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine's laws on the proper level and timely payment of wages. Representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the work, headed by Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco, as well as the heads of local government administrations. I'm talking about district government administrations. The government appointed the Minister of Labour and Social Policy as the spokesman. The relevant reference materials are given to you, distinguished national deputies. In considering this issue, the committees of profile propose a regulation that is set out in the Supreme Council Government Day of Ukraine. For information from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, in 15 minutes, answers to written questions are 30 minutes. The answers to oral questions are one hour. Reports: Heads of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Har Vasil Georgievovich — five minutes, the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the management of the national economy, property and investment of Demiochin Vladimir Anatoliyovich — five minutes, a discussion of 20 minutes, and a summary. Is there no objection? Then. What? I say, your honor, or let's re-vote the position, it's in line with the position that it's all done. There will be a desire to discuss the matter further, and we will discuss it. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, then we should make a proposal to make a difference on Government Day. I said that according to the government's position, we held on to everything exactly. This is the position approved by the Supreme Council. Yeah, let's move on to the question. The report invites the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s consideration of the status of ensuring the requirements of Ukraine’s Constitution and laws regarding the proper level and timely payment of wages is a very important and responsible step in solving the entire complex of acute social problems in this area. I will immediately point out that, in order to ensure that you can get a decent salary for your work, and that it is very important, in time and in full, that it is one of the main tasks of the government, the leadership of the state. In particular, the Ukrainian President’s decree in 2000 approved the concept of further pay reform. The Cabinet of Ministers approved a plan for concrete measures to implement its basic provisions. Today we can talk about some positive results. Yes, over the last few years of security, there has been a steady rise in nominal wage. Please pay attention to the screen that illustrates this growth. As we can see, wage levels in 2003 nearly doubled in wage levels in 2000. The 566 is the average monthly wage for January-March this year, which is 127 percent before the corresponding period last year. As a result, the annual salary increases by more than 20 percent. I want to focus your attention on the fact that wage increases take place in all economic activities and in all regions of Ukraine. In particular, the highest wages in September of the current year were for air traffic workers -- 1,464 bracelets, oil processing -- 1,200 bracelets, financial activity -- almost 1,200 dollars. Among the regions of September, the highest wages are provided in Kiev - 997 griven, the Donetsk Region - 771 bracelets, Zaporzik - 708 and Dnipropetrovski - 708 bracelets, significantly above the average level in the economy of Ukraine. Please pay attention to the screen. If in 2000 the average wage was higher than that of a working person only in Kiev, Donetsk and Zaporizki, in 2003 in 17 regions, and in September of this year, in all regions of Ukraine the average wage is higher than that of a working person. Government and local government agencies have made more than 2.5 times more government support to the village than in the year 2000 than in the average monthly wage of agricultural workers. Please pay attention to the screen. In 9 months of the current year, the average wage in agriculture was already 280 dollars, and in September it was 344 bracelets. The highest size was for workers in the agriculture of Donetské - 518, Dnipropetrovsk - 438, Kyiv - 433 and Kharkiv region - 410 bracelets The proportion of workers employed in the economy of Ukraine continues to increase, whose wages exceed the living minimum for the working person. If the proportion of such workers was 43 percent in June 2003, in June of this year more than half: 55 percent. I want to point out that the living minimum for a working person during this period has also increased. There is also a real wage increase. Since 2001, annual growth rates range from 115 to 119 percent, and in nine months of the current year, 124 percent. Much attention is paid to the government and to the issue of raising the state guarantee in the pay of the work that is being done through the establishment of the minimum wage. Ukraine’s economic situation has not yet allowed it to be set at a minimum of living. Thus, the minimum wage increases gradually. I would like to point out that over the last four years, the minimum wage has increased from 74 to 237 dollars a month, or 3.2 times. If, in January 2000, the minimum wage was 26 percent of the living minimum set for a working person for 2000, which was 287 dollars, the minimum wage had already reached 61.3 percent since September 1, 2004 for a working person established for 2004, 386 dollars. This is a better indicator among the SND countries. Since January 1, 2005, it is envisaged to set a minimum wage of 262 bracelets per month. Work is now being done to determine the steps to bring the minimum wage to the minimum wage for a working person. According to current legislation and projected macroeconomic indicators, the bill foresees a comparison of these indicators in 2007. However, taking into account the recent legislation adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the structure of the minimum wage, which will be defined as a share of the wage to achieve the minimum wage in 2007, the annual requirement will be an additional 10 billion dollars in the State budget. In order to protect the purchasing power of wages and other incomes of citizens from inflation, citizens’ income indexes are carried out. Since March 2003, it has been implemented for all employees and within the minimum cost of living, when the value of the consumer price index exceeds the index threshold set at 101 percent against 105 percent before. Productive sphere. I would like to remind you that in enterprises of all forms of ownership and management, the level of pay is determined by the enterprises themselves in collective agreements. Clearly, with respect to the rules and guarantees laid down in Ukraine’s laws, the general and the sectoral covenants. In the 2004-2005 General Agreement, the government, together with employers, pledged to ensure further wage increases in the manufacturing sector, no less than 25 per cent per year. As I've already pointed out, in nine months of this year, we have a 27 percent increase in the economy as a whole. However, in many businesses the economic and financial situation remains complex, so the level of wages here does not exceed the cost of living. There's an untimely payment. Individual agricultural enterprises do not provide a legislative minimum of their size. Also, when it comes to trends that exist, the use of working time improves. If in 2000 the number of employees on so-called administrative leave was 16.1 percent to the average number of employees in Ukraine, in 2003 it was only 3.2 percent, and in the 1st half year this year we were able to reduce to 1.5 percent, although this is also the issue we are working on, and we need to do everything we can to ensure that we don't have any employees on administrative leave. Ukrainian legislation must be implemented and all Ukrainian citizens must be given decent work and decent pay. A similar decline is also evident with regard to part - time workers. In 2000, they accounted for 13.3 percent of the average number of employees in Ukraine, 11.3 percent in 2003 and 7.6 percent in the first half of the year. [[Remind 13.3 percent in 2000]] In the budgetary sector, the government is taking consistent steps to increase wages for workers in education, health, culture, science, and other areas of the budget. In particular, there has been a 2.4-fold increase in the salaries of budget workers since 2000 and 2.5-fold in education and health, 32.2 per cent in 2003, 28.1 per cent in 2004 and 28.1 per cent in 2004 respectively. We realize that today's absolute wages in this area are not yet enough to ensure the standard of living of teachers, doctors, scientists and other workers, so the government is doing everything possible to increase them. To implement the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on the remuneration of workers on the basis of a single tariff network, discharges and coefficients from the salaries of employees of institutions, institutions and organizations of separate areas of the budget area, further increases will be made to the salaries of budgeters and the optimal differentiation of tariff rates and salaries of staff of different professional and professional groups, taking into account the complexity and responsibility of their work. The financial possibilities for its implementation are now being sought, and over the 5 billion dollars projected in the State Budget project, another 10 billion dollars are needed for 2005. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The issue of timeliness and debt repayment from wages remains one of the most pressing social problems. Please note that over the last five years, it has been reduced by more than 6 billion 200 million dollars. On October 1, this year, the employees’ debts amounted to 953 million dollars. If so, the number of workers who do not pay their wages has decreased significantly. Look at the screen: If in 2000, there were 9,200,000 people, each other, who had not received a full - time job in Ukraine, their numbers have decreased by almost 19 times and are fewer than 500,000. And by January 1, 2005, the government is planning to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the full repayment of arrears from wages. The Ukrainian government has taken on this responsibility and will certainly do its utmost to ensure that Ukrainian citizens forget such a shameful phenomenon as the timely payment of their wages. The implementation of these commitments is ensured not only by the overall organization but also by the provision of substantial budgetary resources for public enterprises, which has allowed for a substantial reduction in the current debt, as shown in the chart. On November 1st, according to operational monitoring, the debt owed to employees is about 540 million dollars, or 30% of the level at the beginning of the year. This has been made possible by strengthening public oversight and monitoring of compliance with the pay - for - work legislation. In particular, according to the results of the tests, the State Employment Survey - 13,887 debtors were drawn to administrative responsibility for 9 months of the current year. Lawbreakers were fined more than 1,800,000 dollars in total. A total of 813 criminal cases were investigated by law enforcement inspectors. We are also working on improving legislation. To this end, a draft Ukrainian law amending Ukraine's 31 law on the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay or recognition as bankruptcy is envisaged to be transferred from the second to the 1st queue of repayment of the creditors' debt of part of the salary. In August of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers introduced the bill to the Supreme Council. He would not want to be met by the fate of the Bill of People’s Deputies, which was intended to pay a salary in the event of the bankruptcy of the employer, the status of a privileged payment and the transfer of it from the second turn to the first one that won only 199 votes. A bill to protect the financial requirements of workers in the event of the employer’s inability to pay has been drawn up and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill provides for compensation for the loss of part of the employee’s dues from the debtor’s enterprises at the expense of the guaranteeing institution. The adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the bill, taking into account recent legislation on these issues, will speed up the solution. On that point, I look forward to your understanding and support, distinguished national MPs. The issue of increasing labour costs in total production and GDP is also being addressed. The government's task in practice is to make the transition from cheap to expensive labor. And primarily because of the significant increase in the average wage. The government will continue to focus its efforts on creating appropriate economic preconditions for the expansion of the workforce, the increase in wages in the next two years, no less than twice, three to eight times, in the next four years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u3	Thank you, too, for the report by Michael Mikolaiovich. Give me half an hour on written questions, you have them, please. And then we go on. Dear colleagues, we have, I have just announced, 30 minutes in writing and an hour in oral questions from the national deputies. I know. Let's sign up for the questions, please. So, then, an hour and thirty written and oral questions. We are united. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, your question, first lips, then in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u4	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, Yukhnovsky, Our Ukraine. I wanted to ask you this. Ukrainian companies are divided into three categories. The first is companies that work successfully, which are profitable. Businesses that are harmful. And a whole bunch of private businesses, where we have very little information about pay and pay, pay and so forth. That's the first question. How do you gather information about the position of wages in these three categories of enterprises? The second question. There is a huge shadow sector of wages. How is the Ministry of Labour informed about the shadowy size of wages?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u5	Thank you for asking. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. You know that the government uses official statistics that are provided by the Ukrainian State Statistical Committee, just like the Supreme Council in its activities. We also started daily debt monitoring from the wages that we are running in the Ukraine regions another year and a half ago. You have the right question. Because we have this information, and we're tracking it down. If there are 600,000 enterprises in all forms of property in Ukraine, state statistics account for about 100,000 enterprises. With regard to other businesses, we now have four funds of compulsory government social insurance. The Pension Fund, the Temporary Labour Loss Fund, the Accident Fund for Production, and the Unemployment Fund, which fully account for real-time and real-time debt on wages, which is also the basis for the government's tasks to the regions of Ukraine. And what I've told you is that today's salary debt is about 540 million dollars. These are the daily monitoring reports, which are certified with district government administrations as of November 1, 2004. A necessary condition for us to fulfill the responsibility of the Ukrainian Government, which was set before us by President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, the liquidation of the debt on salary in the current year, provides for its complete liquidation. We've also gone two ways: the first path that the government is doing today is the timely and full payment of wages at the rate of substantial growth, the second is the repayment of the debt on the wages of the businesses in operation. And the third problem, which is in principle very difficult, is the liquidation of debt and wages in enterprises that are eliminated, which are either in bankruptcy or declared bankrupt. These are the questions that stand today. And I've already talked about that bill that's in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think there will be more questions, and we'll talk more about it so that I don't use all the time to answer your question. So all the problems that we've set, they're going to be done. What's more, in three words, what the government is doing right now. You know what's left is literally two months, while we still know what it is, or remember what debt is on wages. Now the main thing for us is a substantial increase in wages for all of Ukraine's workers. It's creating new jobs, it's eliminating unemployment and a lot of other issues. This is getting the wages out of the shadows. And I think we'll talk even more about the following questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u6	Yes, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u7	Written question: Deputies of the People’s Agrarian Party. The payment of farm wages by active enterprises on September 1, 2004, decreased to nearly a quarter from the beginning of the year. In part, this is probably the result of changes made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the budget this year, which provides for the allocation of part of the funds from privatization to repay such debts to employees of bankrupt and decommissioned enterprises. First of all, we're wondering, how much money is actually focused on this? Second, the changes mentioned in the budget do not take all the problems into account. The workers of agricultural enterprises who stopped their jobs without bankruptcy but were virtually also eliminated remained unattended. And there are, unfortunately, many. The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine introduced Bill 6249, which suggested settling the problem. So can we count on this to support the government? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! According to the State Department, on October 1, 2004, the wages payable to farm workers amounted to 95 million dollars, and they decreased by 141 million dollars from the beginning of the year to a quarter, as indicated in the questionnaire. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine also issued a request for an interest-free loan of 22 million dollars, which was made in accordance with article 109 of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Law on the State Budget. We have a commission with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, an inter-ministerial commission and a similar inter-ministerial commission with the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. So far, funds have been allocated to state-owned enterprises that exist under the Agrarian Policy Ministry -- 17 million dollars -- in enterprises that have been bankrupt and eliminated, 99.1 million dollars have been allocated, 80 million of which have already been accounted for yesterday's information in banks that are open to employees of these enterprises. The government supports Ukraine's bill to amend Ukraine's law so that we can assume that we have a full liquidation of the debt on the wages of businesses that have bankrupted, the APC companies that are liquidated without the right of succession, and I consider it to be a sovereign debt. And we support the Ukrainian people's deputies, it's not such a big amount of money, but we need to complete this very important social work and do everything we can in order to direct the government's efforts, to direct the efforts of the Ukrainian people's deputies to raise the wages of agricultural workers. You know, the average wage for today is 289 dollars -- and it doesn't set up today either government or Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u8	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u9	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, I've written a written question, but I want to say that you won't read it all of a sudden. Today, when we approve the budget, it is imperative that we approve a new minimum wage. And this always leads to heated discussions, misunderstandings, various suggestions. Do you not find it appropriate, as in many countries, that the minimum wage be shaped on a tripartite basis by means of negotiations: government, employers, and trade unions? And only after that was the argument, with the schedules, that the budget was applied for approval by the Supreme Council. That's the first one. What do you think of the future? The second question. You know there are wages today. You called 540 million. According to the U.S. Federation, a little more than 700 million dollars. And I would like to say that we have signed a general agreement with the government of Yanukovic for 2004-2005, and there is a position in this general agreement that the government is obliged to contribute to the repayment of the debt on salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u10	Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u11	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, you know, I'll tell you frankly and frankly that we've done analysis in other parts of the world, where governments in the world, where wages are owed, have made a commitment to its liquidation. I will tell you honestly and frankly: practically only the government of Ukraine has made such a commitment. All over the world, debt on wages is settled through negotiations between the employer and the trade unions in collective agreements and is also made in sectoral contracts, and this is a matter that is monitored only by government labour inspectors. When it comes to setting a minimum wage. We also conducted analyses in other parts of the world. Thus, the prerequisite for setting minimum wages for a given year anywhere in the world is the negotiation process between social partners, between professional organizations and owners. Not between the trade unions and the government and not between the Supreme Council and the government of Ukraine, because today the government of Ukraine is only a employer for 30 percent of Ukrainian citizens working in the budgetary sphere and working on enterprises of state-owned property. Today, 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens work in the non-state economy. That's why, when we signed the general agreement for the current year, we did our best to involve as many non-state owners as possible in this process, on which we have a large account the Ukrainian Enterprise Act says that neither government nor other bodies or organizations have the right to intervene in business activities. So what we're doing right now is we're doing more of a moral duty, partly in violation of Ukrainian law, when we call the directors of businesses on board. Which we have in every area, in every area, in every inhabited area. But let's, let's finish this process in 2004 and what Alexander Mikolaiovich said in 2004. And trends show that we are eliminating debt on wages for employees of all businesses and organizations in Ukraine of all forms of property. And since next year, I think we're going to do everything we can to move on to the civilized principles of solving these issues: and to set minimum wage. And you know, in 2005, we're planning the introduction of a single tariff grid, and that's what we have in the general contract, and an increase in wages. Now let's not talk and talk about what happened. Normal and civilized. Let's forget what happened. Let us make sure that Ukrainian citizens receive a decent salary, as is done in the civilized Western countries of Europe and the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u12	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u13	Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. Government policies are being implemented today so that wages do not create motivation for work, even ensuring that basic physical needs of a person are not absorbed. The cost of working in the cost structure of production is about 13 percent in Ukraine, compared with 60 percent in Western European countries. Since Ukraine is so eager to become a member of the European Union, what today prevents a rise in the level of wages paid to the European standard of pay? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The level of wages in Ukraine is still far from reaching the level of wages in the civilized countries of Western Europe. At the same time, I believe that we will do our best, and in this direction, there are several principles that are defined in world economic science, and we don't have to invent a wheel today. Let's see what's the primary basis for wage levels. First, and this was recognized, including the ideologies of Marxism Leninism: Karl Marx "Capital," where it is clearly established that the primary basis for raising wages is the productivity of wages. So, honourable Ukrainian national MPs, I took a productivity analysis in Ukraine and elsewhere in the world. If you take the productivity in Ukraine and the statistics in 2000 and you take it as a unit, in Russia, the productivity in terms of Ukraine is 2.12 percent, in the United States is 9.3 percent, in Germany is 6.28 percent, in France is 7.66 percent, and so on. In Ukraine, if you take one, this is the ratio of productivity in other countries of the world and Ukraine, well, let's look at another indicator, an indicator of what kind of internal gross product we produce per capita in Ukraine and elsewhere in the world. If Ukraine, according to statistics, produces $980 per person of domestic gross product in the United States, in Russia 2420, in Poland 3910, in France 20,000, in Finland 20,000, in the United States 30,000 dollars per capita. In addition, let's properly compare wage levels with those in Western Europe and the United States. You have to compare non-absolute values. We have to compare the ratio of the average wage and the minimum wage to the subsistence minimum of those countries then, because today, if you look at the structure of the spending and our consumer basket of Ukrainian citizens, there's a huge difference, even in the flat salary. We have cheaper rents ten times than we have in Western European countries. If we take food, we have food, and it's not a cheaper secret than in Western European countries. If you take energy payments, it's cheaper. In addition, there is no system in Western Europe today such as the grant and relief system. And we have a system of subsidies and benefits that are self-protected, that is, protected citizens, that are under-funded by Ukraine, because there is a limited payment for housing and utility services of 20% of the total income of the family. Let's work together in this direction and work together to increase productivity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u14	So, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, there are a lot of people here who would like to ask questions, I would like to ask you, if you please, a little more concisely, Anatolyus Frost, the Communist faction, your question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u15	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Mr. Mikolaiovich, I have this question: I understand that article 109 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 and article 26 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 provides that the costs that come from privatization are to be reimbursed to state-owned enterprises to pay off their earnings on 1 January 2004. I've met with First Vice-Prime Minister Nikola Janović, assistant, you know of such an enterprise in the Tokmak district of Zaporozhye district of Pojdendielselmash, where 70 percent of the shares belong to the state. And here's what's happening today is that it's governmental or it's not state. In your opinion, 70 percent of the shares should be aided by the State or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is, in article 109, please. 3 The Ukrainian Act amending the State Budget Act 2004 clearly and clearly states that these funds are aimed at state-owned enterprises in the form of fiscal loans. So we got it. The paradox is that when this article was written, it was written with changes made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, we did and looked at in general in all the laws of Ukraine the interpretation of what a state form of property is. So you know in any Ukrainian law there is no term like "state form of property." And so when we came to an explanation on this point, the explanation given by the Ministry of Economics, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, said that these are enterprises that are completely state-owned, that is, owned by the State. We asked the following questions: Shareholder societies, which even have shareholding societies with 100 percent of the shares owned by the State, but they didn't fall under this article, not to mention companies with 70 percent of the shares as in your question. That's why, if you look at my speech, I said in the presentation that we are absolutely in favour of the Ukrainian People's Deputies' draft of the Ukrainian Law on this article 109 prima. 3 was clearly written out, and so all businesses with more than 50 percent of the state's share plus one share. And all the stockholders, or corporate enterprises, whose state shares make up more than 50 percent plus one share to get them to fall under this article, and so that we can pay off the debt on this salary. Because this is the debt that came together, this is our analysis: in 1998, 1999, in 2000. So let's do this once and for all. And this is the responsibility of the State. Moreover, the state is not just a government and a cabinet of ministers. The state is a different body of government, both executive and legislative. Let's take this opportunity together with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u17	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u18	It's a written question. Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons The only tariff network approved as early as 2002 by Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 30.08.2002 1298. However, the deadline for entering into force of the decree is repeatedly passed on by the government. The current inter-employment, inter-skilled ratios in the salaries of budget workers are much lower than those of the single tariff network. To date, the government has also not approved the minimum wage for the tariff rate. In this regard. When will a single tariff network be introduced? Dear Ukrainian national deputies, as I said before, and I will try to answer these questions briefly. We do, and this is set out in the General Agreement signed by the owner and trade union organizations of Ukraine, the Ukrainian trade union, and the introduction of a single tariff network in 2005. What is a single tariff network in general, and I would like to say it no more to the Ukrainian people's deputies, but to those who listen, to our citizens. The only tariff grid is installed. First. Size of the first tariff level. I thank the Ukrainian National Deputies who have supported the government in ensuring that the size of the first tariff level is at the level of the statutory minimum wage. That's the first one. The other one. Then the only tariff grid goes into the coefficients and coefficients to the first tariff level, up to 4.51 percent. The coefficient is 4.51. Today, if you take these minimum wage rates in the budget area and the maximum wage rates, they are 3.6. So that's why we're here to introduce a single tariff grid. But my request to the Ukrainian national deputies is that we do not move as they do when they catch up with the train. First of all, we've set up a language for us today that is gradually approaching the minimum wage to the minimum of living. By raising the minimum wage, you see what's going on. At the same time, the cost of living increases. And it's not the draft laws that the government is initiating, it's the draft laws that are adopted in violation of Ukrainian legislation. So, the cost of living goes up, the wage goes up, the wage goes up, and it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Let's do it one time and put in a single tariff grid, we'll make it in 2005 and we'll continue to do it in agreement. And it turns out that we've invented five billion dollars, now the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the law, and it's on the President of Ukraine's signature to remove the tariff portion of these and other ingredients. And so it turns out, we need up to five billion more to put in a single tariff grid to look for another 10 billion. Now the Supreme Council is going to adopt another law, and we're going to have to look for not 10 billion, but 20 billion. Let's do this in a consistent way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u19	I'd like to ask the honourable colleague not to criticize the Supreme Council, and when we talk about coherence, we should have come to the meeting of the Supreme Council when it passed this law, not to carry out a command not to go to the Supreme Council. And let's not judge the Supreme Council. Please answer the questions, answer them briefly and specifically. Don't judge the Supreme Council, please! Yes, Proscuratova Tamara, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Dry, Hard Ukraine faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u20	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye city, faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine". Dear Michaela Mikolaiovich, I recall that during the Government Day, about this kind of day-to-day arrangement in March 2001, we talked mainly about the fact that the repayment of debts from wages is on the city, braked, and it needs to be accelerated, developed measures. Now it's a higher-level issue, a higher-wage problem. I want to ask you, as a member of the government, do you think that in the Ukrainian National Economics complex, there is sufficient supply of positive dynamics to make the process of increasing nominal wages, and so social benefits are pensions, non-working scholarships. That's the first question. And the second question, what's troubling is, today, you've said one sentence in more detail, please, the only tariff network is what's bothering the budgeters today, what we have to meet in the districts, in the constituencies with the electorate, the only tariff network.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u21	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I agree here with all the Ukrainian people's deputies that it is necessary to concentrate today on raising, and to increase substantially, not by percentage, but by nominal wage. Actually, I'd be more focused not on the nominal salary, but on the actual salary, which is the rate of increase in real wages, but in addition to everything else, it also includes the consumer price index. Real wages have increased by 24 percent in the current year. That's not enough. So let's just work on the promotion. And another, the responsibility of the government to liquidate the debt on wages, and during this period of activity, more than two billion dollars of money was directed at it, so the same two billion dollars could be directed at raising the level of wages. And that's what we're going to do when we completely eliminate debt. In addition, the question of a single tariff grid. It is not as simple as it seems at first sight. Since we signed this in the general agreement in the budget area, it is planned to introduce a single tariff network in 2005. But at the same time, education workers disagree with the introduction of a single tariff network, because education workers today are asking questions about the full implementation of article 57 of the Education Act on pay. And in this question, yes, we support the education staff. And we need to continue the negotiation process with the education professions, with the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, with other professional bodies and organizations, so that we can find this "gold" middle after the introduction of the single tariff grid and the enforcement of the laws. Just as health workers today are asking about the implementation of article 22 of Ukraine's relevant legislation on setting the level of health pay at the average level in Ukraine's industry. To tell you what the figures are, according to statistics: in the Ukrainian industry we have an average wage of 768 dollars, the average wage in education is 480 dollars. I mean, there's a lot more work to be done here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u22	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u23	It's a written question. It's health. Science and Education Committee. "Why hasn't a teacher's salary rate reached the statutory minimum of living from January 1st 2005?" The country's distinguished national deputies, the level of wages paid by budget workers depends on the budget's expenditure and on the allocations adopted in Ukraine's respective legislation, in the State Budget Act of Ukraine for one year or another. Yeah, there's time realities, there's income, and there's an expenditure portion of the budget. And when we make a decision about the level of wages, we take into account the possibilities of the State budget of Ukraine. Last year, when we took and analyzed the figures, we raised the salaries of budget workers by 32 percent, in the current year by 28.1 percent, we increased the wages of budget workers. Since January 1, 2005, the Ukrainian bill has set the minimum wage of 262 bracelets, and we are planning and working on the introduction of a single tariff grid. If we analyze absolute values, we have the minimum amount of living that was proposed in the relevant government bill, it was 409 dollars for a working person, and the rate of living is the rate of wage. This is the official salary, the teacher of the higher category of January 1, 2005, will be 398 and the teacher will be 368. I mean, let's work together to make sure that the size of the bet is not lower than the subsistence minimum for a working person. I'm here to support you, the government will plan and do whatever it takes and everything possible to get paid by teachers, doctors, social workers at least 1.5-2 thousand dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u24	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u25	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, it's very good that you started to answer for the teachers, because when I watch our TV today, our electronics. Now this TV has become an electronic weapon and it's always talking about the social budget, so I really want to repeat it again, with an increase next year, no teacher's rate will even reach a higher category to the minimum level of living, that's what you've been commenting on. The other one. Please tell me how we can talk to you today. The government is doing a regulatory function where in price structure, let's say, agricultural products pay today 5-8 percent. And the third. Here's the news from Poltava, from Leonid Vernigora, that your deputy Galic, breaking the law, is in charge of campaigning for the acting Prime Minister, even when the elections are not announced. Comment on this too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u26	You know, first of all, the laws of Ukraine need to be enforced. To that end, they are accepted to obey the laws of Ukraine. As for my deputy, he immediately went to Poltava and greeted the Poltavcans, the social workers, it was Saturday, he went on Friday, you can check and see, greet the social workers with a professional holiday. Greetings with a professional holiday, if you'll excuse me, it's not a nocturnal agitation. And today, I guarantee you that all the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy especially and the patrons of the festival are doing Ukrainian legislation and in no way are violating them. Let's do that if you have data on the breach. Please, the law provides for how they should be formed and how they should be submitted to both the Central Election Commission and other judicial bodies and organizations that make decisions on the matter. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The issue of raising the wages of education students is very important. Since next year, we've been working on this and that. What you said is that we're talking about the social budget now, so adoption of the social budget -- these are the future orientations that we're now setting. By the way, what you already know has not even been in Ukraine since 1996, when the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted, that Ukraine is a sovereign, independent, democratic, social, legal state that we didn't even have the concept of a social state, that we are now working and agreeing with the social partners on the concept of a social state. The concept of the social state is that the basics of human beings, their interests, their social benefits and the future of Ukraine are the adoption of the social budget. That draft budget, which was submitted for 2005, is approaching an understanding of the social budget, yes. Because we already have more than 50% of our budget spending on funding social programs. But that's not enough, as I said. Let's work together to fill the income part of the budget, to increase the expenditure portion of the budget. And I said, and I said again: I have parents myself, teachers, educators who are now retired, and they're going to get the same 286 dollars, 284 bracelets 60 copies of the pension. So it's necessary for a teacher's salary, a doctor's salary, a social worker to have at least 1500-2000 at this time and in 2005 as well. Thank you for your attention, but let's work together on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u27	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u28	It's a written question. Deputies of the Centre. National Deputy of Ukraine Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich: What are the causes of the debt that has arisen since early 2004. Yes. If you look at the statistics, we have about 270 million dollars of debt that arose in 2004. It's based on statistics. We've analyzed it because we don't have any data today that some businesses and organizations don't pay the current salary. This was found to be true of the existence of debt in 2004 of enterprises that had a debt of past periods. And what the managers of these companies have done. Of the funds that came in, they didn't pay the current salary, as stipulated by the legislation, but they paid off the wages for the year 2000, for the year 2001. Why did this happen? Because under Ukrainian law, if debt on salary is to be repaid in 2000 and 2001, it is necessary for the employee to be paid at the same time for the indemnification of wages that includes both price indexation and other losses that a citizen has in the purchasing power of his income. These leaders have been subjected to appropriate sanctions by the state inspectorate, for this is a violation of the current legislation of Ukraine. As I said before, by January 1, 2005, this debt will be repaid to employees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u29	Please, Kozlowski, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u30	Anatoly Kozlowski, factions of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Mikolayovščina Dear Mikailo Mikolaiovich, of course, the government of Yanukovic this year and in general over the last two years, he has done a lot to pay back, I mean, by the increase. It is a praise to this government that it does this work and I hope that it will continue to do this work. We know that in a village in nine months, there's an average wage of 260-280 dollars, and there's a region where there's 180 dollars. What will the government do about it? The second question. What is the number of employees who are not paid their wages at the same time, how they are distributed by activity, and what is the term of unemployment. I know we have the Bormashina factory in Santa Claus, a confectionery factory where three to four years doesn't pay today's salary. That's why I'd like to. And one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I'm going to start with a second question, because I have the statistics I took right under my hands. So if you take statistics, the biggest debt we have is for industry. That's 58 percent of the total business debt. Construction is 10 percent, agriculture is 10 percent. Among the types of industrial activity, we have the largest share of the debt centered on mining companies, storms, and peat, as well as on machines and equipment. This situation is primarily due to those, let's say, not taking into account some of the features of the reform of the Ukraine economy that have taken place. And at that you know that the debt on wages was caused by, for example, coal enterprises. We did this economic analysis. It was caused by what was wrong, or, let's say, by the way, by the need for enterprises to pay the wages of the final product. So the price imbalance that we had, what we needed to do. We need to make a price parity today, and we're working on it. So to be normal, market-based prices. In doing so, monopolists introduced strict government control over pricing, so that we increase the share of wages, the amount of self-sustainment. And let's look at something else in agriculture, and I think you support me here. Productivity in agriculture In large numbers, if you look at the productivity and handicrafts in agricultural production, in the structure of self-sustainability is just one of the biggest weights in agriculture -- about 20 percent. We need to increase the productivity of the work. Next. Let's see. What part of working time is actually involved in the production of workers who work in our APC system, who work full-time, who work part-time, who work part-time. And we're going to see that we have a large field of activity to improve and the conditions for these people's employment while at the same time increasing their wages, because the only way to raise their wages is if they work economically, when they produce competitive products, and when they are able to significantly increase their share and prove, as was already the case in the previous question, to prove to the demanded weight of wages in the structure of domestic gross production in Ukraine to the level of developed European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u32	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u33	It's a written question. I have some here repeated, according to the sole tariff network, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood: as the government plans to implement in 2005 (g) article 77 of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Protection, according to which the wages of health workers cannot be lower than in industry. As I have partly answered this question, we have foreseen the establishment of a single tariff network under the general agreement signed between the government and professional associations. With regard to the introduction of a single tariff network, this step will significantly increase the average wage, including in Ukrainian health agencies. And we're going to have a ratio of not one to 3.6, one to 4.5, and we're going to have a minimum wage, and we're going to have a rebate in salary, and it's also going to get closer to that. I think that if the government, along with the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2005, is working on this issue, in line with the provisions until 2007, when we have a minimum wage to match the standard of living for a working person, just as we have a single tariff network and this set of measures, it will do everything necessary to ensure that article 22, sub-paragraph "g" in Ukraine is implemented so that the average wage in health institutions is not lower than the average wage in the economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u34	Please, Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, how much the miners of Redlegrada are taking to the Supreme Council, who are being faked and abused, including without paying their pension salary, please include a broadcast on the street. Mr. Secretary, I thought you might want to hear an objective painting, and after listening to you, I concluded that you were acting as a propagandist agitator. And we agreed that, in Europe, the social situation of workers is worse than that of us in Ukraine. You forgot here. You were complaining and lying about the constant increase in wages, but at the same time you didn't say anything about the government not implementing the Inflation Index Budget Act, you didn't say anything about lying to the Prime Minister when he said in the early fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u36	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Well, it was. Let's do this, let's do something better to evaluate the government's activities. You know, if we talk about government, let's talk about governments and compare different periods of government activity. Then I think we'll find the truth. As far as indexation is concerned, I am grateful to the people's deputies of Ukraine, and I believe that we have worked very well with all factions, regardless of left-wing or right-wing, in the adoption of one very important law that applies to every citizen of Ukraine, which took place on February 6, 2003, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Law on Population Money Income Index, which provides for indexation depending on consumer price increases, pensions, scholarships, social assistance. And it's all done automatically. And if you look at it, you can get every retiree a copy of his pension -- and see that, in addition to the increase in pensions, this year the Ukrainian pensioners have also received an indexation, and it consists of, in different groups of pensioners, up to 32 bracelets, indexation, depending on the increase in the consumer price index. And it was decided in that law that once the index exceeds 101 percent, all the population's monetary income, including the index, is automatically indexed. Take a look at the miners you referred to on the payroll. And it will be clear and clear what kind of office salary it will pay. And you'll see a line there, "Incentivization of Wage." In addition, there is a line, and I have already said, and again I thank the Ukrainian National Deputies that in cooperation with the government and the construction of part of the Supreme Council, the Law of Ukraine was passed, and today we have, except for the index of consumer prices, we also have compensation for the late payment of wages. And the 109th article provides for the allocation of 500 million dollars by the end of this year to pay off the debt from the wages, including the company you are now referring to. [[See paragraph 3.]] I know one thing: that the documents of the commission of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy have passed this enterprise, the decision has been taken, and now in the UK Savings institutions, the current accounts are opened -- and the cost of paying off the arrears of miners will be recalculated. By the end of this year, we will be implementing Ukraine's law, the President's decree and the coal industry will have completely eliminated the debt from wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, no objection to including the broadcast? [[There's about 60 of them on the street, or what do you call them?]] Please turn on the broadcast. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u38	Letters. Yeah, I'm going to have to do it again if you turn on the broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u39	Yes, please repeat the last words about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u40	Final phrases. As Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I will report to the Ukrainian National Deputies that there is a decree by the President of Ukraine to pay off the arrears of wages in the current year 2004. And this is a disgraceful phenomenon of debt that our government received from previous governments, because, as I've already shown in detail, no amount of debt has our government allowed. But in doing so, we took on a moral obligation to Ukrainian citizens to pay off all miners and other hired workers the wages owed. A decision has been taken on miners by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the allocation of 500 million dollars. [[Article 109 of the Amendments to the State Budget Act]] Now, all businesses are going through the commission, they're filing papers, and I guarantee to all coal workers that by the end of 2004, everyone will have to pay off their wages. In doing so, compensation will also be paid for the late payment of wages and indexation will be paid depending on the rising consumer price index. Once again, the debt paid to coal workers was granted by previous governments in the past 1999, 2000. Thank you for your attention. And questions. "Deputy Group Center." What steps have been taken by the government to prevent the emergence of a new debt? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You know, to do this, you have to take a few steps, besides raising wages, we do need to do this, and we've already agreed with the professional associations of Ukraine, and this is and is provided for in the general agreement, we need to ratify 173 of the International Labour Organization Convention on guaranteeing timely pay. As I said before, one of the reasons why we're in debt at all on wages, on enterprises that have been liquidated or declared bankrupt was that debt has always been in the second row of creditors' claims. That is, if an arbitrator, an arbitrator, was assigned by the court of commerce, who was an arbitrator for liquidation, there was first repayment of the debt owed to creditors, and then the salary was already running out. And in most bankers, while they were paying off wages, there were no assets left, and there were other assets that could be disbursed. There was, so to speak, an arbitrator, a seal and a safe and nothing else. So that's why the government made a decision that we recognized it as a sovereign debt and we're now working on paying off this debt. And it is necessary, and it is now introduced, the Ukrainian Wages Act, the extracurricularity of pay and the extracurricularity of payment. It is necessary to pay the wage first, pay the social security fund contributions, and then meet other creditors’ requirements. Thank you for the very right question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u41	Please, dear, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u42	Mikhail Nikolaevich, in the development of this topic that you have just heard, and we are discussing it. This is a problem for debased enterprises in terms of wages. Please indicate which specific body of the central executive authority is responsible for the problems and problems related to the wages of those employees who have been declared bankrupt. Because when we hear the language, that's what the Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for. But I am interested in the question: specifically, which ministry is responsible for making people working in corrupt enterprises pay their wages. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u43	Thank you. The question is very right and interesting because, as I said before, it's actually, if you look at the Ukrainian enterprise law, it's forbidden to interfere with the state's business activity. In large numbers, if we speak legally, it's not the government or the Ministry that's responsible for the debt on wages, but only in the part of the enterprises of state-owned property that are in the Ministry of Economics that are in charge of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the ones in the Ministry of Economics in the Department of Economics, that's in the Ministry of Economics. So today, let's say, the corporate debt in the department of industrial policy is about 12 million dollars to compare, I said, the figures that exist in the non-state sector of the economy. And most of the debt is concentrated in the non-state sector of the economy. And what the government took on the responsibility and, along with the national deputies of Ukraine, introduced article 109/3, which provided for the repayment of debt, is, I tell you frankly, our moral duty, we do the moral duty of Ukrainian citizens. And the fact that the President of Ukraine signed the Presidential Decree, which provides for the repayment and liquidation of all arrears on wages at enterprises of all forms of property in 2004, is once again a moral step. We need to end this disgraceful phenomenon of debt on wages, we need to make efforts to raise wages and nominal and real. And by the way, the two billion that we've been aiming at paying off the debt, you can imagine they could have been directed at raising the current wages. But we promised this to the people of Ukraine, and the government will do everything necessary and possible to carry out both the President’s decree and its moral duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u44	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u45	The written questions come to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u46	Nothing here to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u47	Special Privatization Monitoring Commission. Why is it that the Cabinet of Ministers continues to sell social facilities for debt accounting, including on wages, since hospitals, schools, kindergartens are essential for all citizens and are in state ownership? Again, this is a similar question that sounded like this. Let's take a legal look at him. Emotions, I understand, we have a lot of emotion. And in Ukraine today, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is not authorized to make contracts for the sale of state-owned objects. He was not entrusted today and was not entrusted with these powers a year, two and five years ago. These are placed on the Ukrainian State Property Fund in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. No special decisions were made by the government. We analyzed the activities since December 2002, not for sale of hospitals, schools, kindergartens. The position of the government is that all institutions in the social sphere provide for the administration of citizens. So it's important that they're in communal property. We need to do everything we can today because the analysis shows once again that there were some very different facts, this is in 2000 and 2001 when they were implemented by the State Property Fund of a State-owned enterprise, and children's gardens, schools, other social institutions were being implemented. Each of these facts has a commission. We need to investigate. If there has been a breach of legislation, or even where there have been other interests, it is necessary to refer cases to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the judicial authorities, and to return our facilities and premises, the social sphere. The social sphere is defined by the government as our priority. Therefore, we need to keep working and keep order in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u48	Please, National Deputy Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u49	Thank you. Olesia Klimpush, Rahiv electoral district, faction of the "One Ukraine" party. Mr. Secretary, in my constituency, a large part of the population has status. And for employees, it's funded by the budget, and today, the benefits provided by law are paid on a regular basis. But most people work and receive wages in equity and equity enterprises that do not have adequate sources to pay 25 percent of the allowance, which leads to formal pay and, in fact, to lower wages. According to article six of the Law on Relationships and the Status of the Cabinet of Ministers, the conditions of work must be determined. And unfortunately, it's not settled today, and there's no real source to pay for it. What and when it will be done by you, the Ministry, so that the laws, as you said, will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. What is more, I worked in the Chernivian region at one time, and there are also mountain areas, and Putilski. And that's a familiar problem for me. According to the budget staff, as you said, the issue is settled by the government. And at the right time, all of us who are stipulated by the Law of Ukraine pay our allowances. As far as enterprises are concerned, non-state ownership is concerned. So I'm going back to you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, let's do what we have to do to increase the impact of the treaty process when collective agreements are concluded between owners and trade unions. So we've analyzed these enterprises in different forms of ownership -- both equity and private and collective. Thus, it is on these enterprises that, in most cases, collective agreements are not concluded; in most cases, they do not have the legislation of Ukraine to set the minimum wage. And you said correctly, in a mountain area, these are the very ones enterprises that don't take into account the remuneration of the work of the corresponding coefficients and allowances. By the way, we're now communicating and working, our State Labour Inspectorate that exists, and the State Labour Inspectors, you know, in every district there's one State Labour Inspector, they're working on this issue. We also work with professional bodies and organizations. But let's look at the weights that we have today. You know, the size of the administrative fine that a government inspector can impose on a job is such a sum that it makes it easier for an enterprise manager to pay this fine because it makes up, I don't even want to call it, 750 dollars, up to 750 dollars. And it turns out that there is a need to strengthen responsibility today, to increase the impact on managers who do not comply with the law. And by the way, there's a lot more important in professional groups than there are, and even fines are twice as much as government labour inspectors. It's the right thing to do, it's socially important. And there's still work to be done. I thank you for the right question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u51	Yes, please, in writing, if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u52	It's a written question. Now, a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u53	If you don't, you don't. We have 61 other members of the national team who would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u54	Come on. I have notes here. Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u55	No, you don't need notes. Please, then, Gabrieluk, get ready for Kulchinsky. Notes are a violation of the situation. It'll take seven days.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleague! Bilvolk Alexander is eager to ask questions. Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u57	Please, it's Bill's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u58	Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! I have two questions for you. First question: In what sectors of the economy is the largest share of the debt to employees of enterprises, institutions, and organizations? If it is, what is its purpose? That's the first question. The second question is, What is the number of employees who are not paid their wages at the same time, and how are they allocated by activity and delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. As I said before, we have a positive trend in reducing the share of employees who do not pay their wages at the same time, as well as reducing the non-payment of salaries. So if you take the absolute figures, according to the statistics in Ukraine as of October 1, 2004, the wages of 495,000 employees were not paid at the proper time, this is 4.4 percent of the employees who work full-time and who are properly accounted for and accounted for by state statistics. If you look further, for example, on the corresponding date of last year, this figure was 1.6 million, or 14 percent, and if you look at it in 2000, the number of employees who were not paid their wages at the same time was six percent, or more than 50 percent of the employees employed in 2000 did not receive their wages at the same time. We've brought this to 4 and a half percent, but again, and I'm stressing that it's necessary for these workers to be absent at all. And if you look at the drinking weight, the majority of them in the fish farm are 15 percent, in the construction -- eight and a half percent, in the industry -- seven percent. So we're now working with professional associations, with labour inspectors, with public labour inspectors, to eliminate this phenomenon altogether. Besides, it's fish farming. There are many other questions that need to be said openly and honestly, especially in this rostrum. It turns out that the greatest amount of workers who have not paid their wages at the same time and the lowest level of wage among employees in general. And these analyses, which are done by our state inspectors of work, show that when you start talking to employees that you owe, that "honorable, let's help you, let's defend your interests in court," so no employee complained to the court. And here's another question, and the question that we need to work with you and the question of getting wages out of the shadows, and the question of paying wages in envelopes. It should be explained to people that whoever today, the employer, pays the salary in the envelope, shoots into the future of this person because when the retirement age comes and becomes a pension issue, the citizen will be forced to have no pension but to have state social assistance. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us work with you on this issue by explaining to people, and let us do our utmost to ensure that the issue of pay is resolved not only in the matter of timeliness but also in the increase in size, and that the necessary social contributions are made at the same time to social insurance funds, for we have a shared responsibility for generations. Today, working citizens are accountable to pensioners for paying their current pension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u60	Please, Kulchinski. Prepare Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u61	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, why has the government not taken any steps since the appointment of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovitch to reduce the huge pay gap between hired workers and owners or business leaders? For example, the average wage of workers in Komsomolska, the city of Komsomolska, is 1.5 thousand dollars, and Mr. Bodagowa, the director-general of GZK, is over 60,000 dollars. Because it is the reasonable balance of wages that is based on the idea of social partnership. Otherwise, it's nothing but total exploitation. And the second question, resounding with Nicholas. In fact, your deputy didn't complain, he only greeted the social workers on Saturday in Poltava, but when I came there on registration from all the district centers of the people who came to this ceremony were handing out packs of advertising products for Yanukovich. The relevant act is filed, photographed, and referred to the prosecutor’s office. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. You know, the question about the ratio of pay for employees and managers, especially owners, is, in most cases, moral. So if you look at it, it's not normal to get a worker's salary, as you said, 60, or 100 times less than the owner's. However, according to Ukrainian legislation, the owner himself determines his own questions of pay. And there's a normal, good scale here, that's a collective agreement. These issues, which you're talking about, need to be addressed in a civilised way when a collective agreement is concluded, where the interests of hired workers are clearly and clearly represented by trade unions, and where the pay-per-employee is settled. In addition, you know that the question of the wage ratio of the hired employee and the manager is not only relevant to Ukraine. I just watched Business magazine number 44 from November 1st of the year. Please read this magazine, which analyzes the social models of Germany and the social models of the United States. Thus, the social models in Germany are the ratio of the minimum wage paid to the employed employee and the wage paid by the manager to about 25 ratios and in America to 120. So this is the question you're talking about, look at the statistics. In the United States, the same ratio, although I think our model should be closer to the European model as it is in Sweden. In Sweden the ratio is about 8, in Finland too. And we need today, by raising the total wage, to reduce people's pay. This is my position as minister and our ministry, as the main authority in matters of pay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u63	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Ukraine, please. Oh, no? Then Anatoly Orzhachowski, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u64	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich! It is appropriate to pay due, of course, in the government’s paws for quick repayment of arrears on the electoral day’s pay and the same price raising ratio. As we know, the wages of budget organizations are one thing, and the wages of peasants are another. Many of them today have no land or work. I'd like, given your previous answers, to hear from you what specific proposals there are today in the government regarding the creation of new jobs, although this is not directly related to today's government day issue, but still, if there are no jobs, those people who don't have land won't have to pay their wages. And secondly, please tell me when the payout procedure for the bankrupt Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u65	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u66	The country’s distinguished national deputies, too, are also very important, according to the government’s programme of activities in 200, 4 years of the creation of 840,000 new jobs. Today, statistics, and this is a dependent body, show that 720,000 jobs have been created. Besides, the job market is such an independent indicator of the overall economic situation. Let's see, from the beginning, it's Ukrainian, and then we'll look around the village. See: The government of the Ukraine of Viktor Yanukovic started to work when we had a unemployment rate of 10.1%, by the way, we conducted a methodology for assessing the unemployment rate by the method of international organization of work, i.e. these are objective indicators that today are perceived not only by Ukraine but also by Europe and the world. For the first year, in the first year of 2003, we had a 1% reduction in unemployment -- it was 9.1%, and now, according to statistics, look, our unemployment rate has dropped and is 8.7%. By the way, for every tenth, tenth percent of the percentage point, 1 out of every 10 countries of the world has struggled for years. And we have a positive dynamic and a positive trend. As for APC companies, you know that since Soviet times, we have had the lowest pay rate in agriculture, the lowest pension rate has been in agriculture. And largely, the largest surplus of labor was in agriculture. The village has always been a donor of industrial enterprises in the workforce. And today, if you look at the need for working hands in rural areas and the suggestions that exist, yes, you should honestly and frankly say that today we have more offers in rural areas than we need. In addition, let's be honest and honest about it, I said that the average wage in our rural area is 280 dollars, and the average pension now, you see, is also 311 dollars, which is the average pension of more average wages in rural areas. That's how we have to raise our wages. And unemployment in rural areas pays 100 dollars. In addition, let's analyze, there are some of us in local self-governance, some of us have population points where the average wage is 120 and 130 dollars. So why don't you tell me who's going to be working two shifts for $130-150 in salary when unemployment benefits amount to $100. So we have the main task today, I've already said that the issue of rising in Soviet times, in Soviet times, we remember, there's questions here, so let's be objective. You remember, in Soviet times, there were 20 carbovans, 12 carbovans, 8 carbovans, and today the pension in rural areas is 311 bucks. We can even talk, now we can talk in a fashion in terms of dollars. Let's be objective, I'm critical of the things that exist today. For all of this is based on a specific citizen of Ukraine, his personal interests and the interests of his family. Today, it is necessary to raise the level of pay for the work to the extent that every family may not be poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u67	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u68	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, today, when we discuss the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine regarding the proper level and timeliness of payment of wages, we testify that in nine months of the current year, the debt from wages has decreased by 843 million, that is, nearly 50 percent. For me personally, this is a dynamic positive indicator, and this is an evaluation, a positive assessment of the government's activities. But here's the question. During parliamentary hearings on the subject of the "Tiberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine and its ways of overcoming it," the medical community, including the faction of the united social Democrats, raised the issue of the establishment of a wage supplement for workers in anti-tubular institutions not less than 30 per cent of the size of the salaries paid by the employees. Please tell us how the recommendations of parliamentary hearings approved by the relevant decree are being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u69	As far as I'm concerned, the country's honourable national deputies are concerned about the allowance, 30 percent of the allowance is settled today. And even at the end of September, a joint order from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health was signed for the introduction into the pay system and a 30 - percent increase in the wage rate for health workers who work with the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u70	Deputy Drachewski, please. Victor Vasilovich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Larissa Polakova, "Trouble Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u72	Larissa Polakov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u73	Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich. Please tell me, today, what share of the payroll is owed to those enterprises that are in the process of restoring the ability of the debtor to pay or recognizing him as bankrupt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u74	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! If you take the statistics on first October 2004, that's 425, about 430 million. Grief, that's the amount. In addition, you know, there have been corresponding trends, i.e. there are some delays between the statistics. For example, statistics on first November appear on November 25. So we're now going to analyze more data from daily monitoring, apart from statistics. So in October, in order to pay off this debt, there are funds that don't yet have statistics, they're not in the statistics yet, but they're already in the monitoring. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The money from that amount has been paid off by the APC - 17 million companies. The sum plus this sum for the state-owned enterprises of the APC. In addition, 240 million people are living in the United States. The bracelet is listed in accordance with article 109 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So if you're talking about the state of monitoring right now, this sum is a little bit more than 150 million. The bracelet, given what we're talking about right now, is the law of Ukraine, which the government supports. and most of the Ukrainian national deputies. We have all the realities and opportunities to eliminate debt in the current year. We recognized this as a duty of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u75	Alexander Baranowski, please, the faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The Honorable Reporter, or someone in the Ministry of Oaks, fell on your head as you prepared your salary data in the village. You counted your wages in rural areas as you did in the past year, when you attributed everything that was grown in the gardens and then there was no bread in the ranges. That's how you count your wages. Where did you get it when every peasant today tries to stand on the stock market and get that 100 dollars of money? That's one question. The other one. Statistics tell us that by 40 percent the income of citizens and pensions has increased. At the same time, prices for essential products increased from 80 percent to 130 percent. So it's asked in this case, has the welfare of the people increased, or has it not grown? And the third question is, does the Ministry control a violation of the law when there's an unbudgeted use of wage money? Let's say when officials, heads of administrations go to meetings now, the district administration, like in Zitomir, and they're holding meetings on how to run an electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u77	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Well, let's still, well, we'll be right, because I've just been summoned by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's not say who's falling off the oak. They're real and they're official, so I've got state statistics in my hands. And only the state statistics are the basis of the figures around which we can talk to you, whatever emotion and whoever they are, and what level of education and other indicators as individuals. So according to the statistics, I'm reading to you. By the way, the State Committee on Statistics is not subordinated to the government to make it clear to you. This agriculture we have, there is an article on agriculture and related services, a salary in September 2004 - 344 bracelets. Is that my data? This is from the State Statistical Committee. The rate of wage growth in September 2004 to September 2003 was 140 percent, i.e. by 40 percent per year, the average wage increased in agriculture. This is an indicator. That the wages in agriculture are not enough, that's what I've been talking about. And the fact that today we have a high unemployment rate in rural areas, an excess of labor in rural areas, is also a fact. And what the government has created today is only in the current year 740,000 jobs where previously unoccupied citizens are employed. It is also a reality of life. And the fact that we have the unemployment rate today, according to the International Labour Organization methodology, has dropped from 10.1 to 8.7 percent, is also the state statistics, because this is also an estimate of state statistics. Let's still be correct in terms of each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u78	I also associate myself with these words of the minister: let's be really, really correct. Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u79	Thank you. The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Michael Gladys. Dear Mikolaiovich, please tell us if they have the right to receive financial assistance, i.e. six salaries, scientific workers working in scientific research, part in higher education institutions, on retirement in 2004, from the post of scientific worker under the Ukrainian Science and Technology Act. Has this financial assistance been cancelled or is it operational? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u80	Thank you. According to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities and Amendments to this Act, this is an important supplement and payment, let's say. Thus, with regard to academics, higher education institutions, third and fourth levels of accreditation, this supplement is foreseen, and it is foreseen for expenses, that is, it will be implemented by a hundred percent. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u81	Andrew School, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u82	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, of course, I would also like to point out, with all due respect to the reporter, that it's more of a propaganda of government activity, and we understand very well that this is now closely related to pre-election propaganda. Because numbers that are not mentioned on the statistical side, they still have to be supported by real facts. And once again, I want to say, did I do a government analysis? An increase in prices in parts of Ukraine, where there has never been a sharp price jump, that is, in a rural area where there was as much cost in Ukraine as there was in Ukraine. And this is all happening in the background of the solemn. such solemn government relations about raising the standard of living of Ukrainians. This increase in living standards is not done by raising wages, even if it is a minimal increase, because the purchasing power of wages is expected to increase the ability to deepen its consumer basket. Why is this not happening?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u83	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The consumer price index is constantly being traced. In addition, I've already talked about Ukraine's monetary income index law, i.e. if the consumer price index is more than 101 percent, then all of the population's income and wages and pensions and scholarships are accordingly indexed. That is, we need to direct our efforts today. If you look at statistics, we have an inflation rate of about 8 percent today and an estimated 11.5 percent by the end of this year. So I want to tell Ukrainian citizens, pensioners, veterans, disabled workers, budget workers, that for the full increase in the consumer price index, according to Ukrainian law, there will be an indexation, i.e. a salary supplement, a pension supplement, a scholarship supplement, which will preserve the purchasing power of these socially important citizens' incomes. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Given that my time is running out, I would like to thank you for the very right questions and point out once again that the government of Ukraine and we are all real people together. So I'd like to take it and do everything and become everyone at the level that everyone imagines by income, by salary, by all means. Let's work with you. The level of wages the government is not paying today, we're working on increasing it constantly. But there are positive trends, there are positive trends, there is some hope for people to improve their lives. In addition, the government has made a commitment to liquidating the debts of previous governments on wages, and now we have finally reached the point where we can honestly and openly look citizens in the eye and tell them. That in the current year we're liquidated the debt on the payroll. Another mechanism introduces new legislation, activates work with professional bodies and organizations. In the budget area, I'm convinced that the wages will be raised not by interest, but at the same time, as soon as possible. And we plan to increase more than twice the wages. Let's work together, and I'm convinced that Ukrainian citizens will still be, as I said, living in a social state, and that the requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine that Ukraine is a social state will be fulfilled, and that in the future we will adopt social budgets, we will pay wages, we will overcome poverty among the workers and poverty among the non-working citizens of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u84	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues! Time is spent for the report and for the answers to the questions raised to the minister. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all of us, dear colleagues, to the day of Ukrainian writing and language, and to wish that we had this holiday every day. [[Applause]] It's very important to us that we really claim to be a nation and a nation. Dear National Deputies! Let's talk about, maybe this is how we're going to make statements now from the committees, the co-reports, then discuss this issue so that as many people as possible can speak, and end up having the opportunity to work on committees, factions and groups today. Will we take a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] So we've consulted, my fellow Members, and in view of your unanimity, I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Har Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the issue that we are considering today is not new to us and unfortunately has a long history. Since the 1990s, this disease has emerged and until this year, it has been chronic. The maximum wage debt was recorded in August 99 and was composed of 7 billion 192 million grivens. Many Governments of Ukraine have tried to combat this social, public disease, but only the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanuković has been able to combat it. Its credit to the significant growth of the domestic economy, which has reduced wages this year, from almost 2.5 billion bracelets and operational data for 1 November to 540 million bracelets. The Government of Januković had to deal with, it would seem unpredictably long overdue past years, enterprises that had long ceased to do so had accumulated 378 million rubble over many years, 155 million of which were farmers and peasants, who had lost hope of getting their lives earned, of course, thanks to the Government of Janukovic, who had allocated 200 million grivens for hopeless rural debts this year's agro-industry complex, taking into account compensation. The current salary has also improved. If delays amounted to 1,200,000,000 or 2.3 per cent of the salary fund in 2002, 761,000,000 or 1.3 per cent in 2003, delays amounted to just over 200,000,000 or 0.4 per cent of the salary fund from January to October this year. In this regard, it should be emphasized that the Cabinet of Ministers supported the bill of a member of our Committee, Jaroslav Mihajlović Suhogo, on the extraordinary payment of wages, which no Government had done before Yanukovic. As a result, the President finally signed the law adopted by the Supreme Council, and now there are no more legislative reasons to delay payment of the current salary. Of course, all these processes were not without the participation of the country's Parliament. The Committee on Social Policy, Labour and the Supreme Council have dealt with these issues on several occasions. In particular, on 15 March 2001, as a result of the discussions at the bottom of the Government, a decision was adopted by the Supreme Council on the status of implementation of the Wages Act in enterprises of all forms of property, which gave impetus to the Cabinet of Ministers. At the initiative of our Committee, the Supreme Council adopted amendments to the State Budget Act 2003 which required Kabmin to begin restoring, as of 1 April 2004, inter-office, inter-qualificational pay ratios for budget workers. This has led to the elimination of the deformity in the wages of unskilled and highly skilled workers and the restoration of a single tariff network destroyed in 2000. Recently, on 20 September, committee hearings were held on the pay of workers in selected sectors of the budget sector on the basis of a single tariff network. The problem is that the level of pay of health, education and culture workers does not meet the requirements of legislation that sets the wages of doctors, teachers at a level not lower than the average by industry, and cultural workers at a level not lower than the average by the national economy. The Government of Janukovič, as I have already said, has doubled the salaries to maintain optimum wage ratios for budget workers this year, with a total increase of 28 per cent. But that's not enough. A single tariff network should be introduced in 2005 and funds should be provided for this purpose in the State budget. Our committee has given both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Budget Committee of the Supreme Council its proposals for minimum wage and reimbursement of the tariff network. Another issue that has not been resolved since 2000, which must be decided by the Government of Yanukovic. The definition of wages as labour force prices in the labour market. This is the destiny of the Government to shake up the multi-year collapses around the timely payment of wages and the appropriate level of pay. The concept of wage reform was intended to increase significantly as of 25 December 2000. Labour, product cost and domestic gross product shall not be less than 50 per cent. But nothing was done until last year. As a result of the efforts of the Government of Yanuković, the share of domestic gross earnings increased from 45 per cent to 16.8 per year. But this is the first step. It should be understood that this issue needs to be addressed by increasing the share of operational costs. Which, firstly, contributes to the growth in production. Second, the minimum wage shall not be lower than the subsistence minimum. And thirdly, the reduction in value added taxes. All these matters are decided by the Government on the proposal of our Committee. By the end of 2004, additional measures will be developed to implement the concept of wage reform. Dear colleagues, our committee considered, at its meeting on 3 November, a draft decision on today's Government Day and unanimously endorsed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u86	Allow the committee to finish the speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u87	The draft decision is given to you, and not only to him, but also to the active, high-impact action on the social issues of the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u88	Thank you. Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyevich is invited to the report, the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Property, and other matters. management of the national economy, property and investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, respected members of the government. The Economic Policy Committee discussed at its meeting the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian laws on the proper level and timely payment of wages. As a result of this meeting, our committee sent an appropriate letter to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work to support the consideration of the proposed issue on the day of the government. Our committee's analysis of profile documents such as the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers programme, Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme for the year in question has always given great attention to the issue of the right level and the timeliness of payment of wages. Realizing that the consideration of today's issue in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been translated from the socio-economic plane into political, yet I suggest that we look at it only from the statistics, as they say, of the bare figures, not of the political population of slogans and assumptions. Let's look at the data from the State Committee on Statistics on average monthly wages for economic activities in 2000 and 2003. I don't suggest that we go to data these very years, because now our views, like the estimates of the population of Ukraine, are based on two governments: the governments of Viktor Andryovich Yashchenka and the governments of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. We all remember that the year 2000 is the year of Yushchenka’s premiere, and the year 2003 is Januković’s. In terms of economic objectivity, of course, it would be more appropriate to analyse the activities of the government of Yanukovic in 2004. However, in order to immediately dismiss the allegations that the Yanukovich government had only begun taking serious steps in 2004 on the path to resolving acute social issues, it is proposed that the figures be considered in 2003. All the details are shown on the information board. I'm just going to stop at the basics. From 2000 to 2003, the average wage in the economy increased more than twice. The minimum wage has been increased by 56 percent. Once again, the average monthly pension payout has been doubled. In terms of debt on salary payments, this negative figure has been reduced by 6 billion. 399 million December 2000 to 2 billion. 313 million - practically three times. I repeat, these figures do not take into account a significant increase in salaries, pensions, scholarships and other payments, and a reduction in the pay-out debt in 2004. An even more objective impression can be gained by analyzing the dynamics of nominal wages in Ukraine in the two years noted. By warning possible concerns about the simultaneous rise in prices that seem to be rising faster at the Cabinet of Ministers of Januković than the increase in wages and pensions. I suggest you take a look at the corresponding diagram. In fact, the average wage increase under the government of Yanukovic was ahead of 10 percent in 2003, compared with the government of Yushchenka: in 2000 the price rose by 29 percent. On the basis of the above, the Economic Policy Committee supports the adoption of the proposed draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of Ukraine's Constitution and Ukrainian laws on the proper level and timely payment of wages. The execution of the proposed tasks of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers will certainly contribute to a positive solution to the issues raised today by the Government of Ukraine. Moreover, the proposed assignments do not violate the overall structure of a socially oriented program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine but only contribute to its timely and full implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u90	Yes, respected colleagues, information, and reports have been delivered. Now let's move on to the performances. In practice, the factions from the factions will begin, and then we will move on to the performances of the national MPs. Basil Nadrag, the Alliance faction. Please prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, Vasily Nadraga, Lugansk Region, Union MP. Today, we are discussing a topic that is actually of incorruptible interest to the whole population, because by working, a person wants to have a decent life. Here, in agreement with the main approaches that have been taken both in the Minister's report and in the report of the two colleagues representing the various committees, I wish To say that, yes, of course, the main indicators that today give us an assessment of the situation are both actual wages and, accordingly, the trend in debt repayment. And here's what I'd like to say today in a positive way, but I would like to look back at the problem that exists and which is about my bill. One of the main postulates relating to constitutional human rights is the availability of a guaranteed salary when a person has worked. Accordingly, the employer must give the person what he earned. This rule is guaranteed by article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution. However, we are faced with the fact that so far, many of our citizens have lost their salaries. And today, there is a situation where a special State fund is needed to address this issue with the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and its units, such as the State Employment Service. To that end, the Government must have an appropriate regulatory framework. I believe that this base is the draft Law on the Fund for Guaranteeed Labour Payments, the author of which I am with my colleagues. This bill assumes that if the enterprise is closed and the arrears remain, in any event, the rights of workers to receive a timely remuneration must be protected, i.e. the constitutional guarantee that the person who has worked must receive a salary. The Act provides for amendments and additions to the existing Ukrainian law on the reinstatement of the debtor's ability to pay and recognition by bankruptcy, as well as to the Tax System Act concerning part of the provision of payments, compensations and lost wages. The purpose of this bill is to create conditions under which honest and decent pay will guarantee the well-being of everyone. With regard to the general characteristics of the law, we must state that the main approaches proposed by this law are incorporated into International Labour Organization Convention 173 and Recommendation 180 of the Convention on the Protection of Workers'Claims in the event of insolence of enterprises, as well as the European Union Directive, which provides for relevant world practice tested mechanisms for the return of wages to workers in the event of bankruptcy. I believe that if we do this as a Parliament, we will indeed make a real step out of political passion to pay off the arrears of wages today and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u92	Bogdan Hubsky, faction of Ukraine. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We understand very well that the well-being of any state, including Ukraine, is primarily determined by the level of real citizens' income. In this regard, we should note that there are indeed positive developments today. Specific examples. In the last two years, there has been a marked increase in population income. In particular, the wage level is real, I emphasize, from 2002 to 2004, it's increased by 43 percent. The minimum wage has increased from 140 dollars in 2002 to 237 dollars now, and from 1 January it is planned to raise to 262 dollars. The average wage increased from 376 dollars in 2002 to 620 dollars in this year, and another 20 percent is planned for the next. Minimum pension. The year 2002 is 79 dollars, now 287 dollars, and the average pension has grown nearly 1.5 times over that time, not counting the last increase. Thus, we can say that the government has, in practice, confirmed the sequence of implementation of the stated principles of social protection for people. And that gives us reason for optimism. But at the same time, we realize that these results are only a small step towards a truly happy future, because we know very well that, unfortunately, today the minimum wage is only 61 percent of the cost of living, and only about 40 percent of the employees receive that wage. So today our main task is to increase the wages of low-paid workers with a further proportional increase in wages for other categories of workers. And today we have real reserves for this increase. Let's take an example. The United States, the European Union. The share of GDP in these entities today is about 65 percent. We're only 46. Next. Productivity. The cost of production in the United States and the European Union is about 30 percent. What about us? We've privatized businesses, often at underpriced prices, and today we know that in the value of products, we only know the pay is about 11 percent. That's why it's a mess. And that's why we can't talk about real social. So we need to change that. And that's why the faction of the "One Ukraine" Party insists: The first is the need to increase the minimum wage, which should be no less than the cost of living; The second is that we need to legally stimulate the increase in wages in the cost of production. We must make a success of the state, the success of a particular average Ukrainian. This is the principle of the faction of the One Ukraine Party, because we have to build a state for a capitalist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u94	Jaroslav Suhi, "Trudova Ukraine" faction. Prepare Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u95	Dear national MPs, members of the government! I want to remind you that on Government Day, with a similar day-to-day schedule in 2001, we talked mainly about ways to eliminate such a disgraceful phenomenon as the time-consuming payment of wages. And the fact that we are discussing the issue of wage levels alongside debt shows that society is willing to give the process of reforming the irreversible pay system, shows the ultimate failure in Ukraine of the ideology of market fundamentalism. In fact, his apologists are now in the immediate vicinity of Victor Yushchenk. Their long - term commitment to our national economy is not based on hard monetary policies, the blind use of monetary restrictions, and the direction of the world’s financial centres, without taking into account the characteristics of the Ukrainian economy. Their clumsy or deliberate actions in the 1990s, attempts to implement the concept of cheap labour, put about 80 percent of the population of Ukraine on the poverty line, caused a narrowing of internal purchasing power and a folding of production. All of this needs to be remembered not only in the presidential election year but also in order to know the dramatic legacy of unsolvable social policy problems that Victor Yanukovic had received. This is all true, and we know this as true and that the coming to power of the Yanukovic government has finally enabled the government-parliamentary coalitions to determine the main chain of social policy issues. It was about finding ways to substantially increase the value of the national labour force -- the highest value of Ukraine. So I want to warn the poor reformers of the camp of nationalist opposition, which today is about power, their ugly work, the low cost of the labor force, is a defining sign of the colonial economy. threatens the degradation of the most skilled structures of the national labour force, halts the development of a multi-segmental purchasing power demand, without which there will be no increase in production, without which there will be no national market, no national economy. Low pay destroys motivation for high-performance work, does not create conditions for increased work force reproduction, has already been talked about. So in the context of the government of Yanukovich, the country's social development strategy for 10 years, we have the opportunity to continue the work aimed at raising the level of wages. For this to happen, first of all, we need to ensure political stability. Secondly, there is a reduction in tax pressure, a corresponding decrease in the cost of production, an increase in labour costs of gross production. Fourthly, to secure Nazbank's first further attempts to set up a civilized lending system. The high cost of labor is not an end in itself. This is the basis for the growth of all social benefits, which is the basis for the growth of the material well-being of all parts of the Ukrainian people. The best achievement of today’s Government Day will be to unite all branches of government in the further resolution of mature problems in the most important area of economic activity - in the area of pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u96	Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, faction of "Ukraine". Prepare Gabrielek Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u97	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. In my speech, I want to stop at two problems that are being discussed today on Government Day. First problem. Timely payment of wages. And the second problem. The appropriate level of pay. At first, I want to briefly remind you of the history of debt on wages, because it took the unions 10 years to fight for it, starting in 1994. This year, in 1994, the first-ever paid salary reached a critical limit of 7 billion dollars. Governments were changing, but the main reformer, who worked from 1992 to 1997, was Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. This was his initiative to make a pension balance, and this was his initiative for the first time that inflation had reached 10,000 256 thousand percent. It's a world record. From his initiative, he was moved to the poverty line. At his offer, a salary was frozen in the hall. That's why all the following governments were forced to correct those mistakes that were made by the poor reformer Victor Pinzenic. And only the government of Yanukovic managed to do what not to do in one government in a year has increased, the government of Yanukovitch has paid off the outstanding wages by 70%. But the problem remains, and we know it. I want to say that the solution to this problem will contribute to the fact that the law that I fought for for for four years has finally been passed. It's a law to make wage pay a priority. Now the employer has to pay the salary and then everything else. But there's another problem that unfortunately wasn't supported by colleagues -- the national MPs in this room -- that I also filed the Law, that if an enterprise went bankrupt, then the wages would have to be paid, and then everything else. What we need to do is make sure there's no problem, well, first of all, I really think that the government will fulfill the commitments made under the general agreement to the unions and by 2004 it will pay off the paid salary, and secondly, we will assume the responsibility of the union that we can't make collective agreements with private entrepreneurs today, they just don't want to do that. We'll do it in court. And here's the thing: raising the level of pay, we suggested to the government the concept of moving from a cheap to a high-paid labor force. This implies, firstly, the approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum of living, secondly in the cost of production of labour, 30-40%, and thirdly, the introduction of a single tariff rate rate is mandatory in 2005. All of this is provided in the concept that the Government has put in place to consider trade unions, the concept of social development, confident that the implementation of this concept will not only end the debt on wages, but will result in a constitutional solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u98	Vasil Gavriluk, a member of the Center, is invited to prepare for the presentation, Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, but you know that the Centre's parliamentary group is always in objective positions, and therefore it cannot be overlooked and said that in our view, Minister Papiev Mikhail Nikolayevich is one of the bright examples of how the rebel MP received an excellent minister who is trying to work objectively. I think most of you will confirm it and know it. But the question today is, is the Constitution being implemented for the rights of our citizens to a decent standard of living? You and I understand perfectly, and we know we don't. Let's remember the former Soviet times when people were making, let's say there's a hundred dollars of pension, let's say there's some 300-400 rubles, but there's always been a guarantee of stability, and people could really get what they're counting on, not just the food they're paying for today, almost 90 percent of their wages. We know that someone might say that there was no money at all in agriculture back then, but I remember the examples when we came from the north to any village, and in particular there were always more cars in a village than there could be today in the whole area. This means that the standard of living was still high enough. Today, let us see what percentage of the cost is in our wages. And no matter how much we try to eliminate the so-called wages and try to say that the government should include the administration and try to manage the situation. But the Minister was right to say that as long as the trade unions are pocketed, until they defend the interests of our citizens, the interests of their collectives, they will be in debt without end, people will suffer without end. Here we have to take our own interests and let our radios listen, take their union leaders, shake them in the end and force them to go and demand wages. No, so we can organize protests, organize protests, and today, according to the Constitution, a variety of demonstrations can be held. And I would like to point out that today's issues are not rhetorical, because the way in which the issue is resolved with wages and the extent to which this wage ensures the social stability of every family is ultimately dependent on the demographic situation and depends on our pensions, our parents, the return, the pensions that have been handed down to our country, and today, unfortunately, they are in a plight. And as a result, it is our personal responsibility not to praise our percentages of GDP growth, but to take on the principle of improving the lives of our citizens, a worthy level. This is when the government will do so, and the results will be in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u100	Yes, Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u101	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Of course, the amount of wages and debts is the result of the activities of the active authorities and specifically the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of his Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic. Just now, my countryman Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk said, how about we don't demand, no union, no government to raise normal wages, eliminate debts? I don't think that's ever going to happen, because both the reporter and the co-reporters have praised the Prime Minister all the time, and the Prime Minister rewards the professional with orders, and they praise him in their speeches. That's why I think it's never going to rise because of the unions, and we have to decide in Parliament the fate of our people who have a poor salary and an even poorer pension. The Socialist Party of Ukraine has for so many years consistently and persistently proposed bills on the minimum wage and subsistence minimum that correspond to the Constitution, unfortunately, most in Parliament do not support it, so most people suffer from such poverty. I would like to draw your attention today to the fact that the fantastically large budget of the Cabinet of Ministers, as the subject of the legislative initiative, did not submit to the Supreme Council before it was submitted at the 120th billionth billionth amount of the minimum wage that would meet the requirements of the Constitution, and also to the establishment of the constitutional size of the pension. On this question for the first time, the truth of today, the Cabinet of Ministers does not blame us for being popular, because money, as we see it, is in the state, and money, as the Prime Minister claims. They'll continue to pay pensions, to the limit of under-supply. But what surprises me is why are our unions really silent? Why do committees in the Supreme Council remain silent? Why do we know today that money is, and this money is not due back to payback? If the salary was paid, it would be paid to the Pension Fund, and then it would not be possible to get a pension at least below the limits of the insurance, but rather a pension established by law. I think that in view of the fact that CEVC cannot be blamed today, which did not produce the results of the election, it is possible to campaign for the applicant. I'm not aging for one of Janukovic's contenders, because I have no right, and I'm asking everyone not to agitate for him, because if we keep working like this, it's because before the election, we couldn't legally establish that amount of minimum wage, so what happens after the election? And so the concept of government, supported by the Federation of Trades and other partners, I think it's criminal that we're gradually approaching zero. So all the values of our living minimum today are less than zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u102	Yes, Stanislaw Kosinov, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Next up is Igor Šurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u103	Kosinov, Kharkiv, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and members of the government! The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine notes that the government, together with the Supreme Council, has carried out targeted work to ensure that wages are raised by gradually moving the minimum wage to a minimum of living, timely payment and repayment of arrears in previous years. By October 1, this year, the amount of unpaid payments was reduced by 12.2 percent. Similar trends are observed during October and early November. However, the current rates of repayment do not allow the issue of debt repayment to be resolved in the current year. It must be acknowledged that this problem has become even more relevant since the recent decision of the European Court of Human Rights to satisfy the claims of several Ukrainian citizens to pay them their wages and to compensate for the moral damage they have suffered. Obviously, this can have serious consequences because of the inevitable increase in the number of appeals by Ukrainian citizens to the European Court of Human Rights. Failure to comply with court decisions can lead to negative treatment of Ukraine in Europe, undermining its international image. It should be emphasized that not only the problems of the proper level and the timely payment of wages but also the problems of the form of payment are important. International Labour Organization Convention No. 95, "On the Protection of Wages" declares: "In cases where national legislation allows partial payment of wages in kind, appropriate measures must be taken to: firstly, the issue of nature is intended for the personal use of the employee and his family and is in line with their interests, and secondly, the extradition is carried out at a fair and reasonable price." The practice of paying wages in natural form, that is to say, is still quite common in Ukraine, especially in agriculture. There are many cases of workers being forced to enjoy their natural equivalent instead of their proper money, especially in the form of overpriced agricultural products, and to continue selling them in order to earn at least a fraction of their value. In our view, the State that ratified the convention is obliged, at all economic difficulties, to take steps to remedy a situation that violates international law. State-level measures should be designed to not only prohibit natural payments but also determine the real responsibility of the enterprise’s administration in the event of a breach. To date, agricultural wages remain the lowest. Despite a 2.8 - fold increase in agricultural wages compared to 2000, statistics show that in January - September of this year, it was only 280 dollars a month, representing 49 percent of the average in the economy of Ukraine and 73 percent of the working person’s living minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u104	Thank you. Igor Mikhailovich Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u105	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine’s Democratic Party has always supported all the smart steps of all, without exception, governments called upon to solve the problems of paying for the work of citizens. Yet, based on our own experience, we must say the following. The most effective mechanism in this direction is fruitful, close and, I emphasize, real cooperation between the legislative and executive branches of government. The work of the Parliamentary-Government Coalition has demonstrated the ability of a marked model of government management. We believe that hard and small work to solve wage problems has produced significant results, and this is evidenced by the figures available. Only the real salary for September-August last year increased by 24 percent. In addition, we have a situation where the wages of budget workers were raised by 32 percent last year, this year 28 percent. It's promising enough for us to believe that there's a state of liquidation of the debt from the payout. In addition, we welcome the government's strategy to ensure citizens' rights through the unconditional monitoring of the compensation mechanism for employees' loss of part of their salary due to violations of their pay terms through the monetary income index mechanism, in line with the consumer price index and by strengthening public oversight and monitoring compliance with the pay-for-work legislation. We deliberately drew attention to these, we think, signs, because they confirm the main conclusion. The real actions of the government are more important than the popular statements made today by opponents. Their ability to solve the problem discussed today, such as, by the way, other social problems, also speaks of numbers. We will not analyze how GDP grew in 2000, but even with its declared growth, Ukraine had a decline in real wages by almost a percentage. And the love - nurtured myth of pension payments is shattered. An analysis of the fact that a real pension dropped by more than 10 percent at the beginning of 2001. Opponents should remember this, as well as the fact that their policy has led to a record increase in housing prices of more than 39 percent. And rising food prices are impressive. In 2000, he was three times the size of a failed farm in 2003. By the way, no one even mentioned the compensation of the population due to the price increase. Instead, in the same unfavorable year 2003, the Yanuković government took action to save the population of 2 billion dollars. The faction of SDPU(o) highlights the real gains of today's government in the area of pay. And this gives us every reason to hope that the Government's development of additional measures to raise wages to the level of the developed countries' standards in the coming years will be successful and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u106	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u107	I'd like to start my speech, first of all, from the fact that when I hear these solemn government relations about it. That everything's okay, everything's done, everything's great, everything's paid, I'm not even looking at the calendar, and I know clearly that the day before the election is simply the answer to all the numbers and the non-factual explanations that have taken place here. Let's talk about the facts. It has been said that since August, the government has reported the full payment of the arrears, the full payment, no one is to blame, everyone is satisfied. And why did the miners now come under the walls of the Supreme Council, along with the teachers, to demand payment of wages and compensation in the 57th article? Why? Do you really think that they came here for reasons other than their own, because they owe them 500 million dollars, just to miners. Where did I go, I'd like to make it clear that the 1 billion dollars that were allocated to pay? Whose salary has been paid? How did it happen that the Pension Fund is now looking for investors? You see, he's looking for funds to get credit because he still needs to. We wanted to win the first round, we failed, so we had to pay our pension by November 21. That's the problem. Because you understand that when government and government structures are used before elections as a mechanism to ensure the victory of a candidate, who is also Prime Minister, at least there is no need for solemn relations. You just have to read the minister a clear report of yours and everything, and not give an estimate, not give a characteristic or do it in such a sublime tone. They'll do it, there'll be special line workers who'll come out and read that "he's been living well, he's been living better," but the worst was living, the trouble was black, they all died, they went out when there was another Prime Minister. And they're making a hint. We had more of those Prime Ministers than any of those who are now aspiring for one of them can count, we can argue that you will never mention all the Prime Ministers. You are interested in one because the task of your Prime Minister is to cover the theft that takes place during his cadence. Where does the billion disappear? Where does the truth about payment disappear? Why? I'll say again, why did the residents come here? They are now standing under the walls of Parliament because you owe them because you owe them the government. Probably because the Prime Minister is "specific," and he specifically took and promised, he is the master of his word. He gave the word, and then he took the word, because once again, I say, the unexpected for the government was and for all of its programs is that the candidate went on the second round or didn't win the first one. So you're going to have to look people in the eye.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u108	Simonenko, the Communist faction, has the word. Prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The debate is initiated by our faction, the faction of Communists! The acuteity of this problem is well - known: It is no longer practical for humans to live. But today, when we analyze the situation, we need to find out why. One of the main reasons is that Ukraine does not pursue independent economic policies, but it does so according to the recipes of the International Monetary Fund, and so-called reforms have resulted in a comprehensive economic, financial, political and other areas of our lives of crisis. A targeted policy was pursued by poor reformers to implement the concept of cheap labour. This is precisely the result of the fact that new owners in the pursuit of income are hiding real income and income earned in the production of wages. If the cost of living has increased by 25 percent since 2000, prices have practically increased by 32.5 percent. The minimum wage is only two thirds of the poor living minimum. In the 1990s, the gross domestic product was 47%, 32% in 2004 and 29% in 2005. We have to tell workers the truth, including trade unions, and I want you to also learn to speak truth to your members. If today is the 8th hour of work, then 7 hours of work is working for the landlord, and only 1 hour is working for him today. In the 1990s, the average monthly wage was 247 Soviet roubles, and for such a salary it was possible to buy goods and services for $700 to $800 from the United States. In addition, the worker received free education, health care, the symbolic payment of housing services, the state covered the difference in prices for meat, milk, the creation of conditions for the full feeding of the vast majority of the population, and this resulted, and it was generally a state policy to support the interests of workers and peasants that you can talk about today, but I want to get everyone here again, because you are the one who owns, the distinguished people's deputies, these enterprises where you don't pay people a salary. 90% is you, the owner of these enterprises and you don't pay them, you national deputies with authority, the mandate of the national MP are thieves and frauds. What should be done in the state? First of all, we need to increase the owner's criminal responsibility for paying his salary and ask why you don't pay your salary in time. Secondly, there is a need to increase the responsibility for the State's cross-accounting, both the owner and the state as a whole, because lending and receivables today exceed 2 gross gross gross domestic product. And thirdly, we need to pursue a state pricing policy without this policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u110	The word is given by Puzakov, a national MP, followed by Karmazin. The factions, the groups, they all took the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u111	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Debt from wages for today is one of the most painful issues in Ukraine. Although not one Ukrainian government was working on its decision, it failed to achieve significant changes. Regrettably, today no one can call the actual debt figure because it stretches from a distance of independence and is particularly largely from the times of the prominent prime ministers of Kuchma, Desert Girl, Kinach, and others, when the payout was invisible in Ukraine to chaos, where 7 million workers, 47 percent of the workers, were in debt from 4 to 6 months, and so the chauffeur, unfortunately, continues to this time. Although it is clear from the Minister of Labour today that today's government has managed to make something of this issue, it is important for individual government officials not to be observers, but to look for real ways to eliminate debt and lead the economy in such a way that it does not create a critical situation for paying off wages. Indeed, this billion - billion - million debt that remains today could not be repaid. It's just that all the possibilities are not fully exploited here, because as you can see, that's exactly what's happening in Ukraine. The government also needs to think about how to use over-planned privatisation revenues, which at the end of September amounted to more than three billion dollars, to pay off the debt. First of all, these revenues need to be allocated a considerable amount to repay the debt of agribusiness enterprises that have been bankrupt or have been liquidated, resulting in debt. The debt owed to state - owned enterprises, now worth 800 million dollars, must be repaid. In doing so, the government should consider another way of paying off debt, particularly to state-owned enterprises. where there is a debt to the workers. It is time to think about our own manufacturer and do everything possible to lift businesses from their knees to create jobs so that the production of these businesses is needed outside of Ukraine and accessible in Ukraine itself and to support business leaders who fight like fish on ice looking for ways to overcome debt. And of course the government should not only think about how to settle debt. And how to prevent the creation of new debts. It's also time to think about the return of the country's planned economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u112	The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. Behind him is Anatoly's Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u113	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national deputies, I was sad to hear today the floods of lies that came from this rostrum. I was sad to hear how yesterday, yesterday, they show on all the TV channels that the Prime Minister is meeting with the head of all the Ukrainian trade unions, and what the head of the union says today, and according to our estimates, more than 700 million, according to you -- 500 million, the difference in 200 million is not so important to the people. And I went out now to see the people who are taking care of it. And none of the ministers went out to them. Not one of them who sits in this bed has gone out. Why? You're holding on to their money. Go out to the people at least now. And they'll tell you. Sailors will say that they were owed 427 million dollars. It's just miners. They're going to ask you where to divide 250 million dollars from the billion dollars that the National Deputy School has already talked about. They will ask you why you do not give money back to people for court decisions in 57 articles. Where, why is Yanukovich silent? Why is Azarov silent? Why did you hide yourself from this? In the Kirovograd region, thousands of such lawsuits. Three thousand lawsuits in the Odessa region. Why aren't you coming back? You're lying to people! And now I'm at the price. You're saying, oh, how we raised our salary. And I just took a look. The minimum wage in the EU was compared to 237 in Ukraine. In Ukraine, about 35 euros, right? And in Poland, 201. More than six times. And in the Netherlands, 1249. In Luxembourg at all, 1369. In Britain, 1105. It's all in the euro. Where are you pushing us? Where are you pushing us? That's where we have to go, and that's where we have to look. And as they say in Odessa, stop telling me. That you lied to me today. And now let's see. As they say in Odessa, we have to pay 40-50 per cent of the value of the product, not 10 per cent, as you pay today. Only in this way can the national economy be self-financed. The total salary is on average 55 per cent in the cost structure. It is to this proportion that Americans invest their own economy. Where is the money hidden? Money's hidden in the rent. Why? Because it accounts for at least 75 per cent of net profit. The labour contribution is 15 times and the capital is 4 times lower. That's how it is. Where's the rent with us, where? She's got a few clans. Four percent of all these clans are occupied. So, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that this big lie is developed by what we're going to do by Victor Yushchenko, and I'm going to give you this telegram:
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u114	Yeah, Anatoly Frost, he's got Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u115	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! There is no need to talk today about the relevance of the issue that is being addressed today before the second round of presidential races. And what's interesting is that those who in their own time, with their weak politics of reformation, privatization through acceptance, have brought our country's economy to a standstill, today promise the people that if elected by the President, they will lead the country on a bright path. I mean, who wouldn't let you do that when you had the possibility of who was the initiator, the ideologist of the collapse of the state sector of the economy, resulting in ministries and offices that ran the sectors and controlled them? Its activities were taken and transferred to the Maintenance Fund. The ministries and offices were only involved in politics: the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the Ministry of Social Policy, and the Ministry of Labour. Today, how can the Holding Foundation cope with the functions that have come upon them? They are only able to track what kind of business has reached the right condition, and the business bankruptcy scheme is working in Ukraine today clearly, and sell it from the hammer. But lately, this has not become fashionable. Let's sell high-profit enterprises, and you know how privatization was meant to be, in order to get non-profit, loss-making enterprises out of the crisis, so to speak. Today it is happening the other way around. This is also an example of a Mikolai clayman. "Criminal," that's a total no-governance. We need to restore the functions of the host to the ministries and authorities, and eventually let them keep order in their field. Dear colleagues, members of the government's day. The information focuses mainly on the success of solving the problems that we are discussing. And that's obviously natural, because it's nice to talk about, you know, it's nice. But it is also gratifying that today’s active government has come to realize what they have done and what they have built up in 13 years. I would like to focus on some aspects of the problems that are being discussed in this room today that exist in certain areas. The information says, "It has had a positive impact on the strengthening of the state's view and the monitoring of compliance with the legislation on remuneration," and there are striking figures of the coefficient of benefit of the State labour inspectors. I'll tell you, we can give a lot of examples today when, on the one hand, these workers, labour inspectors are monitoring, monitoring and trying to sort things out, but in fact, the implementation of these decisions is practically very, very low. In fact, these fines imposed by the state labour inspectors act like mosquito screams because they are paid, not by the manager's pocket or by the company itself, but by the government's pocket, at best, at the expense of those who work in these businesses. So what effectiveness can we talk about here? The government notes that the constitutional right of citizens to pay their salaries in a timely manner is not legally protected for employees of bankrupt enterprises. We can agree with that. But who are the laws written? Let me just do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u116	Please, Volinec. After him, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u117	Mikhailo Wolintz, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the implementation by the Government of Ukrainian laws of timely payment of wages. And the question is, where is Prime Minister Janukovic today, where is the Minister of Finance, where is the Minister of Economy? Why was the minister of employment ridiculed here today? Is he able to answer today for all the sins of the government that take place today? Let's see, on August 29th, Prime Minister Janukovic said that he had paid off his full salary debt, and at that time it was over 800 million dollars. It now accounts for nearly half a billion dollars in previous years and has grown by 38 million in this year. The government today shows that $217 million is owed on wages. What a lie! And this year, almost 1 billion dollars have been allocated in addition to paying off the wages of miners in previous years, but it's only up to 750 million dollars. He asked where 250 million dollars had gone. It's the budget. Who will be responsible? Is the minister responsible for this today? Now, beneath the walls of the Supreme Council Parliament, there are miners and teachers. Sailors demand that the debt be paid. Sailors demand Yanukovich, his government, to recover their pension benefits. There are electric motorists near Parliament right now. They were also deprived of pension benefits and were taken away from by the government of Yanukovich. I ask again why Janukovic is not responsible and why there is no real accountability. For businesses that are bankrupt, the debt is now about 2 billion dollars. Why is this not discussed today? For teachers, according to article 57 of the Education Law, the debt is about 5 billion dollars. And the statistics department today doesn't fix this money, and there's no language for it today. Not only are the miners demanding, but miners will soon be forced to ask questions about the halting of coal mines and the declaration of strike. And the reform announced by the government today, it has brought the coal sector into disarray, it has led to a crisis. I propose today to recognize by decree of the Supreme Council a negative assessment of the activity and government of the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the timely payment of wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u118	Yes, the word has been given to the national MP Masenko. Please don't collect cards. We'll have to make more decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! Dear listeners! I think for a normal state, considering such a question as the payment of an indebted salary, I'm sorry, for tautology, is abnormal. Is there any other place where a person goes to work, works, and does not receive a salary? Am I not even talking about the size of the salary? There's probably no such state in the world. And where you don't have the minimum wage at the living level, I also think about what else to talk about. I'm just surprised to hear the minister say we don't have any financial resources. Billionaires and millions are in the state, and there is no financial capacity to make a normal salary and pay it back. It's just weird. How much can you eat? But you can't take something into that world, you have to share something, you have to leave something in this world. Think about it. I am most concerned about the issue of rural pay and debt. Broken agriculture, no farming, no wages. And as the minister says, the Cabinet of Ministers is not responsible for not paying the salary. Who is responsible? He asks, on the right hand side, "Why is the manager ten times or what's the pay?" And the minister says, "Well, according to the law, that's the law." Who adopted these laws? Let's think about who passed these laws. Now you're shouting. In the center, they've adopted these laws, and on the right, they've adopted these laws. These are the ones that were also in those governments that are criticizing right now, and they have led to this situation that we are in. Today’s reformers are criticizing the Soviet system for the loss of businesses. But the salary was paid. Think about how to make a salary pay. So the stones that you've been scattering in your time have to be collected now, and they've been scattered by those I said. I'm the proponents of both presidential candidates who are so into power, I'd like to say one thing: guys, building dog booths with crowns, it's not a state to build. Think well of this when you get married and take on what has led to the fact that wages are not paid and so much debt. And no one in the country is responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u120	Yes, Your Honor, the time you and I have taken for discussion is over. Please, the Minister's closing statement is three minutes and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, you know, I'd like to thank you for discussing this issue, let it go a little bit emotionally, because this is about Ukrainian citizens, and emotion is a normal thing when they're within, well, let's say, upbringing. I thank all those who have made constructive proposals because the government has set itself the task of paying off the arrears of the salary in Ukraine in 2004, and this will be done. And I would ask those who speak when they refer to something, so that they clearly and clearly refer to chronology. If there are subway drivers under the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now, it is in 2000 that they disappeared from the category of citizens who work underground. We know what kind of government worked at the time, we know the benefits went away, too, the benefits were eliminated in 2000, the honors, so let's stick to the chronology. In addition, when it is said that only 750 million of the billions of dollars in wages are paid to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, social insurance funds, according to the laws of Ukraine. That's why the salary, out of a billion, you have to pay 320 million to the Pension Fund, and then you have to pay the sum that the citizen pays, the citizen's income tax. Ladies and gentlemen, there are laws in Ukraine, and let's count what amounts are coming in right. Every bracelet allocated by the Government, according to the budget, has reached a specific citizen’s salary debt and let’s not say that, in addition, let’s speak objectively, no one has said that the debt on wages has been eliminated. Today's debt on operating fees is 540 million dollars and we have to do everything we can to get rid of it. And what about debt for bankrupt businesses and those that have been eliminated, let's also see, what period did they become bankrupt? What, during the work of the Government of Viktor Yanukovich? And when were they eliminated? And since when does this debt exist? Let's be correct and we didn't come here to blame each other. And just to think about it, how do you make sure that 540 million people pay their wages and wages in Ukraine increase by 3-5 times and that the teacher and the doctor get 1,500-2000 dollars for today's salary? I thank you very much for your attention, let us work together, and let us base our actions on a specific person — a person’s work, his interests, the interests of his family, the interests of his children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u122	Thank you. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, we need to take with you a decision of the Supreme Council on the Government's day concerning information to the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine's laws on the proper level and timeliness of payment of wages. The registration number of the bill submitted by the National Deputies, members of the Committee on Social Policy and Work 6305. Please, from the motives, Konovalojk with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u123	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Members of the Government, I understand that we really have to experience today how much the Yanukovitch Government has been able to provide for the repayment of the debt on the payroll, the inheritance that he received from the previous governments. I think it's important for us not only to define further actions, but to understand that the consideration of the same Labour Code that we've been trying to consider and adopt in Parliament for several years. It's all about every person. And so that our Ukrainian citizens, who have now heard this, would understand and be able to compare how they lived and what they were given in 2000 at Yushchenk, in 2001 at Kinahu. And what the government has now managed to do for them. I therefore invite you to support the decision taken by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Supreme Council not to engage in political evaluations, but rather.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-09-m0.u124	I'm betting on the vote, sorry. Yuri Anatolyevich, with motive. You've been out for three minutes. It doesn't matter, you've made your point. I am putting to the vote a decree, a draft decree on the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine's laws on the proper level and timeliness of payment of wages. Bill 6305 registration number. Please vote. [[13:04:27]] For-98 Unfortunately, you and I have not yet become accustomed to working in this regime of changes to the Rules that we have adopted. I'll show you. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 0, “Ukraine” - 48, “Communist faction” - 0, “Urban” - 27, “Urban” - 0, “Urban” - 0, “Urban” - 16, “Urban” - 0, “Urban” - 0, “Urban” - 0, “Centre” - 0, “PDP” - 4, “Deminicatives” - 3, “O” - 0. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that you and I are not used to working in that regime, and we are used to the fact that after the Government Day, one day after another, we make a decision. So let's make the exception one more day. Let the committee process the draft decision and bring it to the next plenary session, when everyone understands that the time of the vote has come, not just the conversation. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next meeting of the Supreme Council next Tuesday.
