ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:02:35]] Registered -435 There are 435 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, we continue to discuss issues related to the status of participants in international peacekeeping operations and their social protection. The word has a national MP, Tomenko, to prepare Anastasia.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the history of making decisions in this session hall regarding the direction of our peacekeepers. And you remember, there was a hard enough discussion back then. I'm one of those deputies who didn't vote in favour of sending our peacekeepers to Iraq or Sierra Leone. And one of the main issues that we discussed at the time was social security, financial security, and the future of these people. Then, as you know, the Ministry of Defense and the government said we'd settle that question later. No one has offered us a financial basis for who will finance it, how it will be financed. And the records of the Department of Defense's Audit Office show very clearly what abuses have been made in part of the use of funds to perform peacekeeping functions. Remember, in this session room, it was said that the organization of the United Nations or other international institutions fully assume the functions of providing and maintaining our peacekeepers. I have a question: where did the government of Viktor Yanukovich and the Ministry of Defence of Eugene Marchuk look when we were attacked for it and said that we would not have to solve the problem of securing our contingent from the state budget of Ukraine. The second problem, I would say, is a socio-ethical problem. We have three large categories of participants in the fighting, this is actually participants in the war, I mean the Great Homeland War, this is a large category of participants in the fighting in Afghanistan, and this is the third category of all those military personnel who have participated in peacekeeping operations, as has been said here, not just in the last period, but in another period. So the question is, on what basis does the Presidential Bill put all these three categories at the level of condition? I'm not talking about the participants in the Great Country War, I understand their position and our respect for them. I was when I was sent to Afghanistan and when Politburo C.C. of the Soviet Union Company made a decision. This information was hidden from me until I reached the military, so that, God forbid, something would happen. Now our peacekeepers consciously went for it, they signed a contract, they said it was funding, and that's how they pay them. The question is, why is the status of a participant in fighting in Afghanistan, which today, the number of suicides that make the most of which are totally unsupported by the government and not secured, should have the same status as peacekeepers who have gone as contractors to make money on a foreign territory. So I think we should take this into account when we make a decision about direction, calculate and think about these moments, and not then do a favor from the government that we sent you, and now we compare it to the participants in the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u3	Thank you. Please, from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled People's Deputies, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u4	Anastasiav, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Persons with Disabilities has considered a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the social protection of war veterans, participants in combat and peacekeeping tasks submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Nadrag Vasili Ivanovic. Number 5088. The bill proposes to amend and supplement Ukraine's laws on the status of war veterans, guarantees of their social protection, the procedure for sending the Ukrainian Armed Forces unit to other States, Ukraine's participation in peacekeeping operations, and so on. During the Committee's discussion, the Committee agreed with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and recognized that the law could not be adopted on a number of indicators. First of all, the status of war veterans, social protection cannot be included in the category of people who are not involved in hostilities. The status of war veterans in article 5 clearly defines who such participants are. Therefore, there is no way to place participants in hostilities and participants in peacekeeping and operations. Of course, such thoughts have been correct today, notes that it is necessary for peacekeeping forces to have separate documents and to overload the already overburdened Law on the Status of War Veterans and Social Protection. And, of course, Georgi Korneevich was rightly expressed at meetings with veterans, this resentment that, just like us veterans, the participants in combat want to take one step, one step at a time. Although we have received many different tasks. Therefore, I think that it is right in the course of his statement, and Vasily Ivanovich Nadraga has also concluded that it is necessary to have a separate, non-binding law on hostilities that determines the situation and status of peacekeeping forces. We therefore support the committee, we support the conclusion of the scientific and expert commission that Law 5088 cannot be adopted in such a way. Please support him. In turn, we need to work on laws that define the full range of issues related to the operation of the peacekeeping force.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u5	Thank you. So, fellow honourable colleagues, you and I have concluded a discussion of two bills -- Bills Nos. 5355 and 5088, which are related and will now be determined. Dear colleagues, let go of your hands, discuss the completion of more than a reduced procedure. Please, one minute to Goszowski and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! 20 grand. Ukrainian citizens have become peacekeepers as a result of the implementation of international treaties, decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and under the mandate of the United Nations. Participants in international peace operations since 92 have been performing the tasks of the state outside it. And they deserve a legal definition of both their status and their social protection. I stress that the bill submitted by the President as a subject of the legislative initiative aims to establish social guarantees that are far more restrictive than for war veterans on the one hand and are more extensive than for military personnel. Thus, the bill is morally balanced with the bill of the People's Deputy on second reading, it is a real mechanism for all who have been involved in such operations for 12 years and for those who will implement Ukraine's political decisions outside of it. I ask and hope that your political will will be to adopt a separate, social orientation of the law in the first reading, which is indeed expected by tens of thousands of military personnel and their families. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u7	Yes, with the motives of Yukhnowsky, Kuzmuk. In a minute, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u8	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! I'm a participant in the Great Homeland War. I volunteered to join the army. But what I want to say about Afghans is, no one would ask them if they wanted to or didn't want to go to Afghanistan, they were mobilized, they were gone. And most of the time, soldiers don't ask where to send them -- they're sent. As for those taking part in peacemaking, they were sent by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine gave permission for their shipment. She gave it on behalf of Ukraine. And that's why I think we should accept the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u9	Please, Kuzmuk, Andreszuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, today we are making a shameful attempt to divide our society into three parts: to draw a line before the participants of the Great Homeland War, the Afghans and the peacekeepers. Really, the bad news is that we are not taking part in the war today. And does not all these three categories of our citizens unite in doing their Fatherland’s work? And what difference does it make if you get hurt in Afghanistan or in another country? Today, 20,000 await that command. After a while, we will vote again in favour of our people. The President's bill is directed only at peacekeepers. To give them a status where the benefit is much less than that of others: both Afghans and participants in the Great Homeland War. Let's think about it and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u11	Andresuk. Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention and support the point made by Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. You don't have to start passions in this room right now and share today: which are the best military, which are the worst. Who knows how they carry out their service in any region of the military, who knows that they are today holding the oath they have given to the only state, Ukraine. Therefore, they must all be equally protected by law. If you read the law carefully and not play politics, it says here that these social guarantees are given at the level of all military personnel, and in addition, if we, the Supreme Council, have a higher international agreement, it is guaranteed by an international treaty. I'd like everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u13	Rudzkowski. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u14	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! The Socialist Party has been firm against sending our boys to Iraq. The Socialist Party has warned that our boys will die there, and there will be no compensation for that. But some of you voted in favour of this disgraceful proposal by the President. He had no way out, he was covering up crimes on an international level. The President’s family sent a contingent to Iraq, with the hands of the majority and parts of the unconscious opposition, and let them pay compensation from their family income. The money for the Creebrisstal is, pays, let them pay for it. And we need to get the contingent back and save $60 million a year, and then we can cover all the costs of peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u15	School, Cibenko, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u16	In general, there is one missing in Ukraine: it is a law concerning a participant in hostilities. That's where you need to sleep. This should be an extensive law that would include all those involved in the fighting, regardless of where he was carrying out his war duty, for no one can really be divided into anyone. A person who carried out his duties with a weapon in his hands must be rewarded by the state that resulted from their struggle or the holding of that weapon in his hands. I think it's perfectly logical to remind ourselves that we have a whole category of people, like war veterans, are UPA veterans, who so far do not recognize those with weapons in their hands who have advocated the honour and independence of the Ukrainian state. And I think the best thing that this government could do and the best that the Ministry of Defence could do is propose a bill like this. I think if it came from, say, the Ministry, it would come from the government and the parliamentary majority or so-called majority would be nowhere else to go and they would be forced to vote in favour of this bill, which I am proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u17	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u18	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to two moments. First, let's understand that if a person is a peacemaker, he is not a part of the fighting. If she's a fighter, she's not a peacemaker. I would ask that we stop mistreating the status of a warlord. Two years ago, the Court of Auditors carried out an examination of how many people there were. How much did they get to be a participant in peacekeeping operations and how much they got to be a participant in combat? It turns out that the status of a participant in combat has been given, think about it, by 2,000 more people than we have peacekeepers. Why did this happen? This happened because Vadim Dolganov was given the status of a participant in the fighting, and he was awarded the band of songs and dances and the participants in the orchestra of honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! The discussion was concluded more than the time. I am voting on the draft law on the status of participants in international peacekeeping operations and their social protection, author of the bill by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5355]] A professional committee recommends that it be accepted as a basis in the first reading. [[16:19:38]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 16, Ukraine - 38, Communist - 1, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party - 39, Democratic Initiatives, the People's Government - 17, Ukraine's Labour - 29, the People's Agricultural Party - 20, SPU - 1, Yulia's Timoshenko - 0, Center -1, Union -8, NDP and PPU - 16, Postfaction - 5. [[united]] I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the social protection of war veterans and participants in combat and peacemaking tasks, the author of the bill of National MP Nadrag. [[Registration number 5088]] [[16:20:42]] For-48 The law is not adopted. There is a proposal for the first draft for re-reading. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee to send bill number 5355 for re-reading. Please vote. [[16:21:20]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Both bills are considered to have been rejected in accordance with the Rules. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on farm activities, registration number 4410, is being complied with. Reported Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Melnik Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine was prepared for the implementation of article 38 of the Ukrainian Act No. 973 on Farming, which was adopted on 19 June 2003. In view of the fact that, according to the Act, the name that was previously used by "Selyan and Farming" has been replaced by "Fermer Farming". The draft of the Act, which is proposed for consideration by the National Deputies, proposes that the words "Selyan Farming, Farming" be replaced by "Fermer Farming", and that they should be amended accordingly to 17 legislative acts. The introduction of amendments and additions to the legislative acts provided for in the bill will allow for the harmonization of existing legislation with the rules of the Law on Farming concerning the regulation of the activities of farmers. The bill was considered and supported by five committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the prescribed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u21	Have a seat, please. Member of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Agrarian Relations, Tkak Roman Volodymyrovich, reports. Is there a Tuck? Then please, Tomic, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u22	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. On July 19, this year, the anniversary of the adoption of Law 973 on farming was fulfilled. On Saturday’s forum, Ukrainian farmers analyzed the situation and expressed their sincere appreciation for the adoption of this law. It is clearly a matter of great concern to each of them to ignore at different levels of authority the implementation of these articles of the law. With regard to the regulation of legislative provisions, therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers passed Bill No. 4410, which practically amends 16 laws relating to farm activity. I would like to point out that, at its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations supports the bill unanimously in its first reading. At the same time, we stress that not only do we need to change agriculture to farm names, but we need individual laws to contain the articles of the laws on which we refer to 16 laws. And settle them during preparation for second reading. Dear colleagues, this bill, which supports the adoption of the first Scientific and Expert reading, also supports a number of committees that have considered at their meeting, such as the Committee on Legislative Security, Social Policy, Construction, Transport and Housing, Ecology, Environmental Protection and the Elimination of the Chernobyl Disasters. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy asks you to support the draft bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u23	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, Karmazin also insists on Kirilchuk. Are those who signed up no longer insisting? Is Carmazine refusing? Out of the way, please, Carmazin's microphone. Then Puzakov from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u24	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this law gives absolutely nothing to anyone, absolutely nothing. It's completely technical. And I would advise the government, before you take the time to talk, let's make proposals, they're full. People are yelling, screaming, let's make changes, and we've done a great feat we've changed a few words, a name. Is that an approach? It's not an approach that we propose in the Labour Code, after an administrative offence, an economic decree, a government tax decree in 13 laws to replace the word "rural" with "farmer." Well, you know, it's just not serious. So I'm paying attention, and I'm asking you to pay attention to the government, the ministries, that this is a completely unserious approach to the legal work and the taking of our time. And that's something to vote on, since it's already turned out that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u25	Thank you. Please, Puzakov, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u26	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In Kirovgrad today there are about 3,000 farms, most of them, I agree with Karmazin, whether you translate the word or not, they're barely chewing. Last year, up to 281,000 were allocated from the farm budget. A bracelet, or 100 bucks for every farm? Whether you can buy a hundred dollars of seed, herbicides, or minibars, because the land needs to be given according to the full technological program and also under the program to buy technology, because there are 0.2 trucks and 0.1 grain harvesters in one area. All of this was skillfully used by the former deputy head of the Slayer State to become an entourage today. How many farms did Rubinsky have? This is the village of Sokolovsk, the hamster of Nadia, the village of Ajamka. And the tax probably pays. It's like one farm. But these swallows are few, unable to settle down in any way, looking at the orderly land of neighboring farms. The screechers and their team do not allow the SSP "Sbotci" groups of the region of Zamenice, the Niva "Niva" of the region of New Ukraine, Alexandria, Dolinsky and many other areas. And the controls on such hosts, in paws, are not. And unfortunately, the local authorities also operate along with these facilities. The law - order authorities are particularly active in this regard. Yes, farmers from the village of Bouttushka in the region of Alexandria were handcuffed to a village with a thief’s commercial and then put in a mental institution. This was also the case with Cirulík of the district of Zamensk. And the farmer Shumeik of the Valley District was made a cripple and then a beggar, taking all the produce from him to the sunflower and leaving the people with no wages. This is how farmers in Kirovgrad do business. And the peasants are running out of rent for their own pies, they're under-received for their land, and no one cares about it from the local authorities to the President. No one is responsible for the fact that the peasant property was looted by the newly discovered, so to speak, Ostap Benders, such as Byko of New Ukraine, by the Fascist methods of KSP Niwa, where for decades honest laborer Ogor Vladimir Ivanovich has worked to enrich and strengthen the economy, these "results of bands" have been rushing to destroy and steal everything. And unfortunately, this remains unpunished, and no one is responsible for banditry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u27	Yes, Yavorowski, I can't see. Please, Kirilczuk, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, dear farmers! Kirilchuk, Yulia Timoshenko block. Indeed, today it was serious for this bill to make changes to this law, apart from its name, it was possible to foresee serious changes in the law itself. The thing is, to replace "rural" with "rural" and to keep this bill for more than a year or about a year somewhere in the archives, and now take it out on people, I don't think it's going to make it any easier for farmers to do that, they just have an extra gloom. [[Polish]] It's all farmers who have to change seals, change registrations, change documentation. Although it says here that the cost of this law is not foreseen, that is, there will be no expense from the budget, but there is a huge stalemate. In addition to today’s regime of farming as well as cooperatives, today’s authorities do not care. The village, both with farmers and without farmers, is dying because there is no clarity in price policy, no lending, no land separation, no markets, no processing. So we take the whole area of the agro-industrial complex, it's on the backs of our country. It's a shame to even go to the villages. They don't even go around anymore to show you anything, and the media doesn't have anything good to say anymore, because the kind of policy that the current government and the current regime have applied is nothing more than bullying the villagers. Look at one of the farmer’s gardens, where the remains of the technicians remain. I was approached by a group of farmers, who somehow bought an old combine abroad, one at a time. And they went around all the ladders, the power floors -- and they didn't find any support. These disgraceful coins that each farmer spends, they don't change the situation. The law must be passed, but the government must immediately consider the policy of saving the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Dear colleagues, you've been listening to the First Deputy Minister. I announced, Deputy Minister reported, First Deputy Minister Luzan Yuri Jakovic. They listened to the profile committee, listened to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, who said that we could really not accept it. But since this is about the purity of a legal one, let's still adopt this law in the first reading. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on farm activities, registration number 4410, on the basis. Please vote. [[16:35:02]] For 310 Dear colleagues, since these are purely technical terms, you can't go to another, can you? Please, Cherniak, please. Cherniak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, we've passed the Law on Change, rather than "rural-farmer" "farm farming." It's normal and it's right. But it is important to note that, in view of the adoption of the Law on Farming, it is necessary to amend 16 laws. The Cabinet of Ministers took a year to change one word, and in fact the Cabinet of Ministers did not implement the Law on Farming, and the financial part of the Law was blocked, so it was necessary to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the law adopted by the Supreme Council and to make changes, proposed changes to other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u31	Thank you. Well, we don't have to oblige anyone, it's the Constitution's duty to enforce the laws of everyone, including the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, the bill was adopted in the first reading. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking. [[on the liquidation of the bank]] This is registration number 3575. And respectable colleagues, just like this alternative bill from the bank, so let's look at it together. Please report to the deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak. Please, both of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The need for consideration of this bill is motivated by two basic reasons. The first is the commission of the Supreme Council, which is set out in paragraph 10 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on Information from the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the financial crisis of the Bank of Ukraine. And the other one. The second reason, the second motive is the following. For 4 years, we've been working under the Banking and Banking Act on articles that deal directly with liquidation procedures. They have gained some experience, have come to understand some contradiction of our law with other laws, and so there is a need to regulate a number of rules or conflicting, or standards that life requires to correct today. And since I'm running out of time, I'm going to stop at the major money we're offering today. The first of these concerns the following. Today, the Banking and Banking Act defines the concept of "cancellation of banking license" and the liquidation of banks" of articles 73, 87 and 88. [[this article 20]] Although it is clear to a sane person that the withdrawal of the bank’s license and the liquidation of the bank is the same thing. So we had to take away the internal contradiction in the law so that the reasons for both the withdrawal of the licence and the initiation of the liquidation procedure were the same. Moreover, we moved on. Because in the law in force, we have the only basis for the bank's liquidation procedure is its insolvency, which is further interpreted in the regulations directly by the National Bank. This does not seem to be the case with us. And I'd like to put in a fairly clear legal order here, clearly setting out the reasons, the state of affairs after which the actual liquidation of the bank may begin. So we corrected article 87, where we said that there might be reasons for this: reducing the regulatory capital of the bank to the size of the registered, and the statutory capital paid, providing unreliable documentation for the bank's registration and obtaining the bank's license, reducing the adequacy rate of the regulatory capital to 2 percent and less, and so on. These are clearly the reasons why an extermination procedure can be initiated. When we looked at this bill on the Supreme Council committee, we concluded that there was a need to correct the term "paymentability," and we are ready to look at this term in the second reading, in order to rigidly link the signs of insolvency to the failure to execute the bank's client's payment documents during the month and in the amounts set by law. The bill also proposes to lift the ban on bank sanctions after the withdrawal of the bank’s licence. And we've had to deal with a lot of living practices, too, that once the license is revoked, there are investors who want to stop the liquidation of the bank by putting the corresponding capital there. But the law forbids doing this today, and so the proposal is to go back to the existing practice of eliminating any economic entity. I would like to emphasize that this approach is fully in line with the European Union’s directives. The principles of banking supervision. The second principle of the bill is to give the decision of the National Bank of Ukraine the status of the implementing document in order to warn the bank’s managers against allowing the bank’s liquidator to perform their duties and preserve the bank’s assets. The granting of the status of the implementing document to the decision of the National Bank will allow the enforcement measures to be applied by the authorities of the State Executive Service, in accordance with the Ukrainian Enforcement Act. I would like to remind you that in this 73rd article this right is granted to the National Bank for the Establishment of a Temporary Administration. There is also a proposal to complete the liquidation procedure. I would like to draw your attention to the third change that we think is the most fundamental and which is expected today by those people who have gone into liquidation procedures, especially the bank's investors. That is, the bill provides for the indemnity of the claims made by mortgage creditors, as well as the transfer to the first group of creditors of individuals who are currently in the second group. Moreover, it is proposed not only to transfer the investment requirements of natural persons from group two to group one but to meet the requirements of investors of natural persons disproportionately, with all other subsequent orders of creditors. And completely, first, the demands of investors of individuals and then the demands of others on the order of creditors. Another very important thing we encountered in the liquidation of the Bank of Ukraine. We propose to amend article 91, which prescribes a procedure for the removal of the Bank's Mystery Griffith, not only from the banks themselves, but also from its debtors. So that we don't have to face more of a situation where we can't report to the Supreme Council and the commission's investigators about those who led the bank directly to bankruptcy. With regard to making changes to article 88. Practice has shown that the three - year term laid down in the Law in force is, unfortunately, not enough to carry out a quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u34	So what we're proposing is that for small banks, or so-called non-system banks, this procedure should be increased by a year, by system banks, by two years. As the practice of liquidation of more than 20 banks shows, this is the term that is optimal for the liquidator to be able to carry out a quality and complete liquidation procedure and to be calculated with the bank’s creditors as much as possible. They're convinced that these changes and additions will sort out the process. Most importantly, I would like to stress once again that investors, individuals, are waiting for such a decision, because in that case they will be able to get their money much faster than in the current law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u35	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. Two committees have been identified as focal point for the bill 3575. So please, I invite you to speak to Onopenek Vassil Vasilovich. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u36	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we don't mind improving the Banking and Banking Act, especially in terms of what happened to the Bank of Ukraine. But this needs to be done thoughtfully, well thought out and in accordance with the Constitution and the current legislation. Our committee has been discussing the issue of whether the National Bank can be sued as liquidator of any bank. So the language today is from the point of view of the competence of our committee to whether the court is competent to stop the actions of the National Bank or not. The position of the National Bank is that they feel that the court is not in a position to do so. We believe that it is impossible to make an exception for the National Bank, since today all subjects of civil law must be in equal conditions. And if, for example, the National Bank is wrong, then the interested party should appeal to the appropriate court. And the court of law is in charge of securing a lawsuit, there are appropriate rules in the Civil Procedural Code to stop the actions of the National Bank. So I don't think it's possible to accept that. Because in accordance with article 124 of the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the courts extends to any legal relationship in society or state. If this was about the liquidation of any enterprise -- a private enterprise, another enterprise. They're going to court. And in such cases, the court stops the application of a case or action. And in this case, there's a certain attempt to make a certain exception to the general rule. So I don't think this position can be maintained. We have in our committee the conclusions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the conclusions of the Supreme Economic Court, where the position is the same. In addition, because this room has adopted a Civil Procedure Code, which is due to enter into force on January 1st next year, tomorrow we will be voting on the first draft of the Code of Procedure, and this proposal contradicts the concepts of these codes. So I don't think I can support this project. In a better case, refer to the first rereading for processing and taking into account the positions of banks’ associations, the positions of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, and scientists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u37	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. I invite a co-rapporteur from the two bills of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Victor Vladimirovich Kaplupina. Please. Five minutes for two projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u38	Honorable National MPs. This law, Law 3575, which we have just heard, which we have just heard, is essentially about the procedure for the liquidation of banks. Of course, we understand that a lot of the rules of this law come from practice, from that experience that has accumulated for several years at the National Bank of Ukraine, and from all those structures that deal with banking. Because liquidation of the bank is a very difficult operation, a very difficult situation. This is not an extermination of some small economic structure, but it is a decommissioning of a structure that has long - term, long - term, long - term creditors, accounts receivables that are very often out of bounds of three, five, even sometimes ten years. So, of course, the system of elimination, the mechanism of all elimination, has to be clearly defined and clearly defined. We discussed this issue very carefully on the committee. I would say that the National Bank's attempt to settle this issue is very positive and correct. Unfortunately, there are questions that we cannot agree with, and above all, this is the question that Mr. Onopenko, the first co-reporter, referred to on the legal aspects of this situation. I mean, the National Bank's proposal to supplement article 248-4 of the Civil Procedure Code with a new position in the part that looks like that: bringing a complaint to court does not stop the execution of the contested decision or the operation of the National Bank or its officials, the temporary administrator or the liquidator of the bank. In our view, this issue is very much limited to the position of the court, the position of the judiciary in general, the judicial system, which is unacceptable in any kind of economic dispute, economic, financial dispute and dispute. That is why we feel that we need to take this into account. In general, the committee is proposing to support this law on a basis, this bill on a basis, to support it in the first reading, but it's still an observation that we think is very, very important. We all need to count it when we vote now. I am now putting forward a decision by the committee, which was what I said -- to support, to vote in the first reading for this bill. But once again, I say from my own name that this position that I've just talked about is very and very controversial, which is very difficult to agree with. As for the second bill, 5453, on increasing the deadline for the liquidation of banks after three years to one year of commercial banks and up to two years of systemic banks, I think we should agree, because the experience of this situation, which occurs very often in the liquidation of banks, leads to the need to continue such a term in order to take these banking structures very seriously, in the context of this banking structure, into a receivable, creditor debt. And that's why the extension of that term is, in our opinion, correct. And the committee recommends the adoption of this law as a basis without any objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u39	Yes, thank you. We have draft decree 3575/p-1 on non-admissibility. I give him my word. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u40	Honourable People's Deputies, distinguished Chairman! Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Our Ukraine faction, Leonid Chernovetski. I'm the president of the Kiev Banking Union, and what I'm going to say is that there's nothing personal - not Alexander Vitalievich Schlapak or his team. It is only one important principle. There is truth, and there is falsehood. The truth is that this law has not passed the committee, and if you vote it, the committees are not needed. What the fuck do they need? After a year and a year and a half, my drafts, they're not being reviewed, so let's look at them in three days. Now, what does the National Bank offer? The horror is that he proposes that the actions of the liquidator of the bank cannot be challenged in a court of law. If you vote for this bill, then tomorrow in all businesses, and I don't know, I think that percent, maybe I want to believe in the best, but probably 99 percent are cockroaches, and one percent are decent liquidators. If any of you in this room know any decent liquidator people, call me back, I'll call off my initiative right away. The next path the legislator will take is this. Why is it only the liquidator of the National Bank and why not the conventional enterprises? Let's get them all out of here without the law! And no one can interfere. That's terrible! The President of the Economic Court has now concluded: it cannot be voted against, it is contrary to the Constitution. Chairman of the Committee. We're just gathering opinions, we're saying, come on, and I've offered this to Alexandra Vitalievich, find an opportunity, consider me a human being, a humble people's MP, sit with me as the president of the banking union -- and in one and a half hours, let's finish this law. No, unfortunately, I'm not a man to him, but, of course, he's a good man and a big man. You'll think it's some kind of banking alliance! Don't vote for this bill, it violates the Constitution, it's wrong. Because today, if investors break into a bank, they can at least create some kind of association, and choose their liquidator, and sit on the head of President Nazbank, and he will put this liquidator. If you vote for him, there'll be another rogue. And like in the bank of Ukraine, he was pulling the last refrigerator out of the office. You won't find anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u41	Thank you. I'll take care of it. Yes, we vote, we vote, Leonid Mikhailovich. We're still talking. Including your decision. We will discuss two bills and your ruling. Of those who sign up, who insists on speaking? Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich. Nigger away. Who else? Yeah, okay. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, note what the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vasil Onopenko, reported. The same is practical, only in other words, said Leonid Chernewický. I would like to point out that this bill, so-called a bill that has not passed, has absolutely failed to obtain proper expertise, is in violation of the constitutional requirement of Ukraine, yes, the Constitution of Ukraine. Because there is a tremendous attack on the rights of judges and courts. I quote only the changes proposed in article 248 with four Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. It is suggested that this part be completed. The submission of a complaint to a court does not stop the execution of the contested decision or actions of the National Bank or its officials, the temporary administrator or the liquidator of the bank. I mean, the final word in this state is going to be behind the bank. Next came the Code of Conduct of the Master, article 67, "Conventions for the Seizure". It is not possible to secure a lawsuit by banning the National Bank, the interim administrator, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the constitutional rule that the norms and jurisdiction of the courts extend to all legal relations in Ukraine? What should we do about it? And maybe there's an answer to that question. And I'm going to ask you a question like this. Who's behind two banks? TAC and Tassinvest. Whose property are they in? According to the Party of Protectors, they are owned by the head of the National Bank of Tihypak. Tell me, please, in which country there is not even one in Tanzania where the head of the National Bank owns banks and then pushes others to join. And they're joining us. Joins our bank, joins other banks or other banks. In 1990-92, when Tihypco was the head of the Privatbank government, it went up to 1 billion because the accounts went to the Baltic banks. Nobody does that. 9 billion gold stocks today are stored in the United States dollars and we lost 25 percent with you because there was no diversification and there was no euro raising. Again, no one is responsible. So I'm in this law, which, very quickly, the right MPs told us, only 16.06 was this document issued to us. 16.06 published, now under consideration. That's lobbying, that's not what I'm saying. The second bill may be, I repeat, accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u43	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u44	Another bill can be adopted in the first reading, because it has the right of the National Bank to continue the process of liquidation of banks up to one year, and from the so-called, system-based banks up to two years. There are some warnings to be made so that this right is not absolute in the National Bank. I thank you, I would ask you against the first vote, and the second can be accepted in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u45	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Dry. Get ready, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u46	Dear National Deputies! There is no doubt about how to vote in favour of Bill 3575, for us Ukrainian national deputies of Majorities and Listers from the Zaporez Region. I ask the attention of those Ukrainian national deputies who have had these problems and know what human distress and human misery are when in these various groups people die without waiting for the return of money from a bank that went bankrupt or broke down. That crisis and the problems that have fallen on the foreign MPs after the liquidation of the Slovenian Bank, after the liquidation of the Bank of Our Bank, leaves us no choice. We have waited a long time for the bill, and it must be supported. A similar bill was recently introduced, registered by the Ukrainian National MP Artemenko and other Ukrainian National Deputies from Zaporozhye region. First. We've been waiting a long time for a new definition of the bank's insolvency. This is an extremely important aspect. What's with the End Positions? At the end of the day, two speakers from this rostrum built the whole policy, which we can easily correct in the second reading. We look forward to a clear and clear list of measures of influence for commercial banks. This is some kind of stepfather for many businessmen today. The other one. So far, Zaporozhye has made clear the need to uphold the rule of liquidator requirements. Also, by law, read this law, and it clearly sets out the personnel requirements for the liquidator, the professional requirements, his liability before the court, before the law. Especially were we waiting, and it is good that this bill sets out a standard for orderliness, a more faithful priority for getting the money out of the bank for individuals, for those who first suffer when an incorrigible bank collapses. [[Listen carefully]] Especially because these requirements will primarily meet the demands of the individual, namely, the creditors of the bank. This bill should be adopted in the first reading. With the adoption of the 3575 bill, we'll be able to slightly improve the population's confidence in banks. I want to remind everyone here, remember, it is in all the countries of the world that the main investor is the person who brings money to the bank. It is in his best interests that this bill. And once again, I confirm, the warning about the End Positions we can take off on the second reading. Today, this bill must be adopted in the first reading. Thousands and thousands of people are waiting for him, who have been hit by a bank and whose money is now in the banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u47	Thank you. The word has been given to the national MP Mironenko. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u48	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, the plight of people associated with the affairs, the theft around the bank “Ukraine”, the bank “Slavianski”, and the experience of Ukraine, all the experience of capitalist Ukraine shows that this bill is necessary. The Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the adoption of the Act on first reading, as it aims at at least a small attempt to establish banking order. If the bank is insolvent, it cannot fully comply with the legitimate requirements of creditors, investors due to the lack of funds, such banks must be bankrupted in a timely manner. Of course, there is a danger of abuse, and this must be taken into account. Indeed, our liquidators and businesses are very often quite right to be corrupters, and that is true. But we see that the capitalist State itself is a great thief who has surrounded the people over the past 13 years through great privatization in banking, industry, agriculture and so on. Therefore, we must conclude that we must go to socialism, without it nothing good will be done. Next. Respected compatriots, there is a need for the adoption of this law, but other laws must be adopted to end deflation, an artificial lack of money in the field of monetary treatment. This is precisely an artificial deficiency in order to secure high credits due to the shortage. And this is ensured, I stress, by a virtually monopolies of the banking private sphere. Another danger is that if the head of the National Bank or the President, as a thief, forces the liquidation of the State's last banks, he can also eliminate State banks, but he can do so without this law. If the full monopoly is confirmed, then the well-respected employees of enterprises, the Ukrainian population, in general, will be poor, because deflation will be even greater, credit will be given at a higher rate, and people will be robbed. Deflation is stifling the economy. Respected compatriots, the Communist faction also calls on the National Bank to prepare professional bills to ensure the establishment of a bank for reconstruction of the development of other State banks aimed at investing the economy. We have taken the example of Japan, Italy and other States, and they have created a system, just like the banking sector, that helps to develop the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u49	Yes, please, Nigger, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u50	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. The question that we are considering today is a classic display of conflict of interest, but the soup is said to be separate from the flies. Touching the soup. In the economy of Ukraine, there are so many small banks. Of course, the situation requires that the law of concentration of capital be in force so that the banks are merged so that they can be more powerful. It's beyond doubt. And now for the flies. We need to improve the process of liquidating banks. It's complicated. That's true. But what is unacceptable in the first bill? What is unacceptable is that in disputes between the bank and the liquidators, the court’s decision is not taken essentially into account. A court decision may be taken, and the bank’s liquidation is ongoing. This question needs to be reconciled. The bank’s liquidation procedure needs to be better written, linked to the court’s decision. So I support the proposal that the first bill should be sent for re-reading. As far as the second bill is concerned. So it's about elimination terms. It's been going on for three years. Here it is proposed to increase for commercial banks for a year and for two years for system banks if necessary. I think you can agree with that. And the second bill can be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u51	Thank you. From the place, please, with the motives of Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u52	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honourable national MPs, the actions of the last two presidents and the National Bank during the so-called reform in Ukraine have resulted in the loss of citizens' savings and total despair of the vast majority of investors in Ukraine, a loss of full confidence in the state. And this bill, unfortunately, does not increase trust in the National Bank, because it once again proposes to be put up by higher independent judicial bodies. I think this bill needs to be re-readed. On the initiative of Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz, a decision was made to index citizens’ savings, but the National Bank has not yet made proposals for specific mechanisms for the return of savings. Let's do these.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u53	Yes, thank you. Please, Slap, one minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u54	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to three such brief comments. First of all, with regard to the timeliness of the law. Since March-month, this bill has been on Mr. Onopenek's committee. Since March-Month, we, the National Bank, together with the investors, have been looking into it. This bill is not being considered. We had no choice but to go to the Supreme Council with the investors so that this law could be passed in the Hall, and you judged us who was right and who was wrong. In fact, once again, I want to emphasize that in one right Leonid Mikhailovich: there is a right and there is a lie. In 99 articles of the law, there remains the full right to charge any action by the liquidator, the administrator. In order for us to avoid contradictions, simply and simply Vasil Vasilovich Onopenco is the norm of the Civil Procedure Code of Article 52, which you have already adopted, the Supreme Council, signed and entered into force on January 1, we propose that this law be transposed into the body. However, since it will be in effect on January 1st, we are ready to give up these closing positions, as Mr. Suhi has said, in order to pass the basic rules of the law -- on the order of payments to people. And so I can assure you that in the second reading, we are perfectly good at working out this bill, which we have repeatedly talked to Mr. Chernewick about when we were sitting with him. Where else does he propose to sit, I don't know. I'm not gonna sit there. Thank you. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u55	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. We'll vote. The first one will be the decision on inadmissibility. The author of the decree of the Czernovetsk People's Deputy, Bill 3575/P-1 on the non-admissibility of Bill 3575 on Banking and Banking. [[on the liquidation of the bank]] I'd like to make a statement. The Order of Chernewsky. [[17:09:30.]] For-88 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, registration number 3575. [[on the liquidation of the bank]] Please vote. [[17:10:04]] For 177 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 5, "Ukraine" - 25, "Communist faction - 57, "Deminiciates" - 30, "The People's Government" - 11, "Trudova Ukraine" - 28, "The People's Agrarian Party - 0, SPI - 3, "Timoshenko Block" - 0, "Soyuz" - 9, "NDP" and "PPU - 3, "Centre" - 1, "Afterfraction - 5. I put to the vote in the first reading on the basis of the draft law amending article 88 of the Banking and Banking Act, registration number 5453. [[on the expiration date of the bank]] [[17:11:03]] For 316 There is one sentence, perhaps we will accept it as a whole? Is there no objection? Then I put it to a vote as a law amending article 88 of the Banking and Banking Act, registration number 5453. [[on the expiration date of the bank]] Please vote. [[17:11:36]] For 328 Adopted as a law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal for a preliminary bill -- these were the following proposals: Onopenko introduced bill 3575 for re-reading. Vote. [[17:12:17]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the following bills: Nos. 4062 and 4190-1, in connection with the author’s illness, he asks for a transfer. Is there any objection? The question is: the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, registration number 4097. [[for individual services]] Rumors from Chelnokov Sergey Dmitrovich. Prepare the Saint.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposes to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the application of accountancy registers in the field of trade, public service nutrition, which will allow mobile phones, taxi recorders to carry out their primary function: to provide services in connection with the use of cash forms of payment, with coins, without significant costs of processing them. The development of taxi recorders for the purpose of providing them with an unattainable function - the registry of accounting transactions - increases their cost, makes their operation much more difficult, increases their cost of service and puts them in discriminatory conditions compared to other types of taxi recorders that do not use cash forms of payment. When the bill is passed, there is a significant increase in the production of taxi recorders, their cost, their operation and services are greatly simplified, and the population is able to choose the form of payment for the services provided. The project proposes to complement the list of individual forms and conditions of business in the field of trade, public nutrition and services for which accountancy registers are not applied by introducing a new paragraph 12 into it, namely, "in the provision of communications from telephone taxophones using the cash form of the coin. [[This is article 9 of the Act on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services.]] The implementation of the bill does not require additional material and other costs, but it will save a substantial amount of money that would have to be spent on the completion of a fleet of taxi recorders, which in Ukraine now has more than 1,900 items. The introduction of this bill will allow for an increase in the budget. The population will have a convenient form of payment for the services provided. appropriate monitoring organisations can always get comprehensive information about the amount of services provided and the amount of money received over any period, because all taxi recorders work under the supervision of a computer management system that stores all the information about the services provided. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports this bill without notice. The Committee on Finance and Banking proposes that it be accepted as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u57	Thank you. Please, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Dmitri Volodymyrovich Svetash. Please, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u58	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to refer the activity from the provision of taxi - phone services to one that does not require the application of a registrar. operations. At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking on 14 April this year, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, introduced by the People's Chamber, was considered and the committee reached the following conclusion. In agreement with the content of the legislative proposal, the committee proposed. to form a draft law and have decided to support the finalized version. The committee recommended approval of the previously introduced draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of accountancy registers in the field of trade, public nutrition and services in the first reading on the basis and as a whole, as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's no need to discuss it, I think. Yeah? Then, with your permission, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, registration number 4097 on the basis. [[for individual services]] Vote. [[17:17:20]] For the 250. Is there no objection if we accept it as a law? Please vote like the law. Vote. [[17:17:45]] For 227 Thank you. Adopted as a law. The question is, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the application of the Register of Accountancy Transactions in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, registration number 4097-1. [[on the carriage of passengers and luggage in taxis]] Reporter Dmitry Volodymyrovich Saints, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u60	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The draft amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the application of accounting transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services aims to confirm and implement the existing rules of law in force in the field of the provision of services for the transport of passengers and freight for taxis and the elimination of inadequacies between them and the laws of Ukraine on the application of accounting transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services, the protection of the rights of consumers of the services indicated, the provision of more quality and safe transport and the continued execution by operators of economic activities irrespective of the legal and licensing conditions for the implementation of such activities and financial discipline. Article 9, paragraph 4 and 6, of the Act, defines the conditions under which accounting records, and so on, are not applied. That is, the provision of passenger and freight services in a taxi is related to these conditions. On the other hand, according to Ukrainian licensing legislation, legislation that regulates the licensing of passenger and freight services is mandatory. Amendments proposed by the bill are excluded from the provisions of Article 9 (4) and (6) of the provision of services for the carriage of passengers and luggage by taxi, thus stating the priority of the licensing conditions in this field and eliminating the inadequacy of this Law article by the Law on Transport. According to the Ukrainian Automobiles Act, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees "On the Approval of Rules for the Provision of Passenger and Car Services" all without excluding the subject of the business, if they carry luggage on a taxi they should install and use electronic taxis, the registry of the settlement operations, notify the passenger the amount of the fare, the tachometer at the beginning and at the end of the journey, and issue a cheque to the passenger for his travel. I would like to point out that this year, the Committee on Finance and Banking reviewed the bill, the Law of Ukraine, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. The bill is also supported by the European Integration Committee. The bill was conducted by an expert at the Ministry of Finance, which indicated that it would lead to an increase in revenues to the State budget of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u61	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, Carmazin from the scene, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of citizens calling today asking how to stop taxi drivers and how to be sure of how to protect their rights as consumers, how to meet the requirements of consumer rights law because many taxis do not even have accounting registers. You and I have adopted the Road Transport Act, the licensing of certain types of farming activities, which clearly requires the installation and use of electronic taxis in a taxi to ensure that the population of Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens, foreigners understand clearly that there are rules of the game, the price is set and that this is happening in the country under certain conditions. So I believe that the Bill of the People's Deputy Saints is to be supported. And probably in this case, the committee did the right thing, here is a little bit of a change, the fact that already two laws say that this Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in the Field of Public Food and Services, which was adopted, was adopted as early as July 1995, we made appropriate changes in the first and second readings. So I agree with what I have proposed to the committee on first and second reading, and I think it will give more, let's say, the European expression to Ukraine and guarantee consumers their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u63	Thank you. All those who signed up spoke. That's why I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services for the Transport of Passengers, First-reading Taxi Freight. [[Registration number 4097-1]] [[17:23:31]] For-146 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 18, "Ukrainian Regions" - 42, Communists, Social Democrats - 0, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 26, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 16, Socialists - 19, Block Timoshenko - 2, "Soyuz" - 0, NDP, industrial - 5, "Centre" - 13, "Postfaction - 5. There's an offer for re-reading. Please vote. Once again, we vote. [[17:24:21]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The bill is off. There is a draft Law amending the procedure for paying taxpayers' obligations to budgets and government trust funds on indirect methods of determining the amount of tax liabilities. Registration number 5023. Author of National Deputy Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich. Please, Victor Sergeiovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished President. Today, we are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Procedure for the Compensation of Taxpayer's Liabilities to Budget and State Trust Funds. That's what we pay as taxes. Legal mechanisms for determining tax liabilities through indirect methods, i.e. methods that are quite close, tax-based, will have considerable effectiveness, especially in their application to unscrupulous payers. I mean, we can't, let's say, find out who's not making a documentary tax commitment. These taxpayers are very effective indirect and approachable methods. The main purpose of the bill is that the mechanism for determining the amount of tax liabilities, i.e. taxes on close indirect methods, should be governed solely by law and not by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. What is happening to us today by these approachable and indirect methods in our country? To date, the head of the Tax Administration has given a method of deducting these close taxes into the State budget. The Cabinet of Ministers shall decide on this methodology accordingly. In fact, we have a fact. The day is essentially tax legislation which, according to our laws, can only be adopted by the Supreme Council. And one of the amendments to my law will resolve this issue, so we therefore claim the right of the Kabmin to make these laws a way to tax. Accordingly, I propose to do so only by the law of the country. The bill also proposed that decisions on the application of indirect methods and the determination of the amounts of tax obligations, the approximate indirect methods, should be taken by the tax authority and that the payment of such tax obligations should be made in court. To date, this amendment is in the law. But since January 1, 2005, it will be quite different. The next day, the tax inspector comes in, in close proximity, if you have some sort of minimal error in documentation, he's charging you taxes, and he's suing himself. The entrepreneur comes to the judge and proves his right or wrong in court. If he does not come there, he will accept these taxes accordingly. Since January 1, 2002, there will be a completely different system. I mean, the tax office will calculate taxes, and you'll already have those taxes immediately without trial. Accordingly, if you do not agree with these tax calculations, you are already putting yourself in court and proving it or not. I propose to leave the amendment, since it is not taxes, it is not direct evidence of taxes that the enterprise can pay, but of close-up taxes. It is in this part of the indirect methods that I propose to leave the amendment that is now in place. And only the tax service must prove, as is the case today, these tax obligations. Thank you. I can say that the Committee has supported, almost 99 per cent, these amendments to the law on the order of repayment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u65	Thank you, Victor Sergiyovich. Yes, there are no those who wish? It's Carmazin, Cherniak. Don't you insist? Please, Carmazine's microphone. Sit down, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u66	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! This offer, made by our colleague Gorbachev, deserves only support and attention. Today, it stops the State Tax Administration and its wayward ways. Thus, in this law, the majority of Ukrainian citizens who are interested in approving the method proposed in determining the amount of tax liabilities by law will allow for greater transparency in making these decisions when applying indirect methods of taxation. And of course, I'd like to accept it in two readings, but unfortunately, there are little problems, I can agree with the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which proposes to make it clearer in paragraph 4.3.5. of paragraph 4.3. Article 4 of the mechanism for making decisions on the use of indirect methods, since it gives tax authorities the exclusive right to decide on the use of indirect methods and on the basis of tax obligations. Another decision on the payment of tax liabilities is to be made in court. Of course, if an argument is to be made, it is only necessary in court. So with these little nuances, if you had them. They'd still be gone, so the law could be passed in two readings, and otherwise they'd have to be interpreted somehow. Although in any case, I would like to thank Deputy Gorbachev, and perhaps all our voters thank him, especially those who suffer from the Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u67	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Listen to words of thanks to Gorbachev. Yes, then I'll put it to a vote. The first reading casts a vote on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on how to pay taxpayers' tax obligations to budgetary and public trust funds on indirect methods of determining the amount of tax liabilities. Registration number 5023. Vote. [[17:30:45.]] For 323 The law is passed. Maybe the whole thing? Is there no objection? Then I generally view as a law on how to pay off taxpayers ’ obligations to budgetary and government trust funds regarding indirect methods of determining the amount of tax liabilities. Registration number 5023. Vote. [[17:31:19]] For 331 The law is passed. Let's move on to the question: the draft Law on Chemical Power Sources. There are three bills. I give the floor to both the author of the bill and the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to Mike Vitali Ivanovich. Vitaly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u68	Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, faction of the NDP and Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. There's an offer. Here are three laws: the law of Zimen, the law of Chechel, and the law of Jehanur, the law of Jeschen, and mine. There's a proposition here: these three laws are very close in their own terms and meaning and direction, and there's a suggestion that you make three laws one and put all these laws into re-reading so that you don't waste time. If there is no objection, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I then put the motion to the vote: to re-read, to prepare one of the three bills. These are registration numbers 4525, 4525-1 and 5030, the draft Law on Chemical Power Sources. To read again. Please vote. [[17:33:24]] For 317 Decision taken. Thank you. So, let's move on to the question of "Re-Reading First Reading." Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on compulsory pension insurance]] Registration number 4584. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Heater Helen Vasilovna. Please, Olena Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill is submitted to you in connection with the Supreme Council’s commission to enforce the laws in force in connection with the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act. Dear National Deputies! Today, the pension is assigned depending on the person’s employment and the income from which the contribution is paid. And we propose to increase the criminal responsibility of contributors for late payment of premiums or evasion of fees, as well as for failing to provide reliable documents on the job of the hired person and on his income. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed to establish in the budget code that all payments that are made to the person above the rules provided for under the general law will be financed by the State Budget. This allows both the Pension Fund and the State Pension Budget to be channelled. After the first review of this bill in the Supreme Council, the time has passed, and the work that we have done and agreed with the social partners is working. The changes to the State Budget Act 2004 provide for costs in part and for farmers. So we're partially taking down this problem of pension financing for peasants. Dear National Deputies! Before the Pension Fund Payment Act, all of us have the same obligations, and we propose to extend these obligations to those who deposit their funds on bank accounts. They won't get rid of the pension fund's contributions. This will also enable us to channel the cost of working pensions. Dear National Deputies! The bill was discussed on all committees of the Supreme Council. At the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, a letter was sent to consider further those committees that had not been able to consider it before the first consideration. The Science and Experimental Authority supported the bill. On the second reading, we can take all your comments and suggestions into account. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u71	Thank you, Helen Vasilovna. Have a seat, please. What, are we going to back it up? Then who is in favour of supporting in the first reading the draft Mines Act to some Ukrainian legislation on compulsory pension insurance, please vote. [[Registration number 4584]] [[17:37:10]] For 254 The bill was adopted in the first reading. No, in general, even the reporter said that something needed to be clarified. In the first. There's a bill on political advertising, registration number 3143. [[re-read]] Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovitch reports. Three minutes, Valery Dmitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! The replacement bill is a finalized version of the previous draft. What Is Worked Out? Short for 22 to 18 articles, i.e. four, a number of definitions have been deleted that do not apply to the direct law, such as the classification of the media according to the founders, the principles of the distribution of political advertising, the expanded forms, means and language of political advertising, the more clearly defined features in the electoral period of the problem of the protection of the media and the basis of the responsibility for the violation of the law. It is proposed that this law address issues related to the use of political advertising, especially during election campaigns. The general principles of legal regulation of political advertising, principles of distribution, form, means, conditions of execution are laid down. The project is aimed at establishing a level playing field and the ability to implement political advertising by all political actors, especially during electoral campaigns. To this end, it is proposed to regulate legislatively the costs involved in electoral campaigns, the use of party and non-party media, compliance control and accountability for violations of political advertising legislation. The scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that the drafting of this project is more perfect than the previous one. In addition, there are a number of comments, relating to duplication, harmonization of certain provisions, the organization of responsible articles. So these are things that you can count on in the second reading. I believe that this Law can be a major complement to Ukrainian electoral legislation. And the adoption of this Law will be a test of who really advocates pure, transparent, democratic and honest elections. The committee considered it at its meeting and suggested that the bill be adopted in the first reading. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u73	Thank you, have a seat, Valery Dmitrovitch. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to support our choices by a good Law. Please, one minute, Carmazine's microphone. Yuri Anatolyovich, you'll say anything you want in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u74	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, we've returned this bill before, and we have to say that the bill is improved, although the situation in the country has worsened. We see a disgraceful political advertisement, which, in a way, attracts attention to today’s Prime Minister, to today’s President, we see the Supreme Council as a collective body of law. We see that there's one-sided information going in the polling stations, in the constituencies where the elections were now. So it seems to me that on the first reading, this law should be adopted, but on the second reading, we should remove such control over compliance with the legislation on political advertising.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u75	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Finish it, yes. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u76	Control over the enforcement of political advertising legislation is envisaged not only for the National Television and Radio Board, which is entirely relevant to it, but also for the State Committee on Television and Radio. And you and I know that as the executive authority, he did nothing in terms of monitoring compliance with legislation, not doing anything, and he won't do anything during the presidential election. It is better to place this responsibility on the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information, which heads the Supreme Council of Mikola Tomenko, at least it will be more objective, more real, and it will be represented by all political forces. Moreover, during elections and referendums, control functions will also be delegated to the relevant election committees and referendum commissions. How, like, what level or all the commissions can give this right, are we going to sue in court? Thus, in the first reading, a law can be passed and then described for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u77	Thank you. I'm voting on the bill on political advertising. [[Registration number 3143]] On the basis of the first reading, we vote. [[17:42:52]] For 262 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, we have a number of interesting decisions that I think we will be supportive of. I'm voting on the day-to-day draft ruling. Or perhaps immediately, if there is no objection, to the inclusion in the agenda and to the adoption of a decision on measures to support the socio-economic development of Suma in relation to the 350th anniversary of its establishment. Registration number 5487. For inclusion in the order of the day and for adoption of the decree. Vote. [[17:43:56]] For 333 It's been decided. I'll bet. It's an order. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Lviv in relation to the 705th anniversary of its establishment. Registration number 5532. I've spent my whole life there. Please be supportive. [[17:44:37]] For 367 Thank you. It's been decided. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda and the decision to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian actress Maria Zankovetskie. Registration number 5424. We're voting friendlyly for it. [[17:45:12]] For three hundred Decision taken. It's been decided. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda and the decision to mark the 135th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian singer Solomy Kruschelnicky, registration number 5431. Vote. [[17:45:47.]] For 367 It's been decided. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration today of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning compulsory types of insurance, registration number 5272, on inclusion in the agenda. [[17:46:22]] For 348 Questions are included in the agenda. Is there a denial of acceptance in the first reading? You don't? Yes, please, Carmazin has something to say. The procedure? Then please invite the head of the State Commission for the regulation of financial markets and services of Ukraine Suslov Viktor Ivanovich to report. Victor Ivanovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the first reading a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on compulsory insurance. The need for this project. First of all, in Ukraine today there are 39 types of compulsory insurance, in the countries of the European Union, by the way, these are 5-6 species. Therefore, the first objective of this project is to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with European Union legislation. The excessive number of compulsory types of insurance leads to additional types of government budget in Ukraine in cases where such types are carried out at the expense of the State Budget. In addition, compulsory types of insurance reduce tax bases and thus reduce income tax revenues. In addition, the existence of excess types of compulsory insurance gives rise to the monopoly of certain insurance companies and services, which is unacceptable in terms of the development of a competitive environment in the market. A number of types, compulsory types of insurance, are not economically viable. In the materials you have, it is said that by some forms of insurance, congregations are calculated by thousands of dollars that are not enough for these kinds of insurance. The government therefore proposes to remove 29 species from the list of 39 compulsory insurance and leave 10 types of insurance. This proposal was supported by the Committee on Finance and Banking. In addition, I would like to remind and thank the deputies that a recently approved law on compulsory civil liability insurance for owners of vehicles and the implementation of this law will prevent possible losses to the insurance market from reducing compulsory types of insurance. I'm grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u79	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Yeah, we've got a statement to make, if you don't mind your colleagues, in a minute, Carmazin and Pravdenka from the place or from the rostrum, please. Carmazine, get ready for the Righteous One.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u80	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honourable National MPs, the bill has indeed proposed positive things -- to cancel a large number of compulsory types of insurance provided by the Ukrainian Insurance Act. In general, out of the 42 compulsory insurance schemes that are now established under article seven of the Insurance Act, the project is proposed to cancel 29, i.e. 13 compulsory insurance schemes remain, including medical, transport accidents, aviation, vehicle owners ’ liability, and so on. But I would like to draw your attention to some things that might happen unforeseeable entirely. And you and I can make the legal field worse. I'm also paying attention to Victor Ivanovich Souslow's stuff. I understand that something the European Union wants, someone else wants -- and we have to take care of the national interest. On this side, I have a question. Too bad we don't apply the full procedure to all the bills, and we can't ask any questions. I'm drawing your attention to the proposal to amend the People's Protection Against Infectious Diseases Act. I recently summed up and said what is happening today with tuberculosis, the AIDS epidemic today, and especially in Odessa. And how do we protect medical workers? It is proposed and excluded in a comparative table on page 15, there are legal and social protection measures for medical and other workers involved in the protection of the population from infectious diseases. [[Look who's seeing it. He's got a project ahead of him.]] The law is now in force: "The employees of state and municipal health and scientific institutions are subject to compulsory state insurance in case of infectious disease in the order and conditions established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." [[Part Two, Article 39]] Now it's proposed to be ruled out. I believe that this approach is not justified. Moreover, this approach threatens the safety of Ukrainian citizens, aggravates the situation here and will only contribute to this disease. To whom do we make the law, do we make it for people, or do people thank us for it? So let's look closely at every law that's proposed here. I propose without this law, without article 39: protecting the population from infectious diseases -- this law cannot be amended. There is also the law on AIDS, the law on the fight against AIDS. And this law cannot be changed. The others, please. It's called: The Law on Prevention of Immunodeficiency Immunodeficiency Syndrome - AIDS and Social Protection. Article 26 is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u81	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u82	So since first reading is a conceptual approach, I would ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt without article 25 of the AIDS Prevention Act and without that article 39 on the protection of the population from infectious diseases. Then it'll be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u83	Yes, please, Sergey Makarovich. And let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I don't speak as well as the honorable Yuri Anatoliyovich, but the position of our faction "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Rule" coincides with it. In general, we support this bill, but in view of the need to remove what is written in it, it excludes the bill from those laboratory and other scientific research workers who are now subject to compulsory insurance because of the fact that they may be disabled and otherwise when they are impressed by their service obligations. Next. The same bill deprives health - care professionals who work with the mentally ill. This should not be allowed to happen in any way. And the third position, too, has been bugged, is taken off the government’s insurance policy in case of infectious disease, that is, the health care professionals who work with infectious patients are not afraid. Bill 5272 votes our faction asks that this proposal be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Victor Ivanovich, a minute and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u86	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to note that there is a separate law in force in Ukraine on compulsory state insurance against industrial accidents. And so this law covers the cases that have been discussed. Doctors and stuff. And by the way, there's a case of immunodeficiency infection. Payments for this type of insurance are zero. We don't have that kind of case anymore. So it would have to be the law to approve in the first reading and in preparing for the second reading of any kind of insurance, we'll give you complete information about payouts, about active legislation, and with each individual MP we'll discuss all of this. If you find it necessary, you will exclude some types of insurance from this list, but for a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u87	Thank you. That's what we're going to do. The vote will show. I'm voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws, registration number 5272, in the first reading. [[on mandatory types of insurance]] Please vote. [[17:56:23]] For 298 The bill was adopted in the first reading. I ask and call attention to the committee, when preparing for the second reading, to draw attention to the proposals made by the national deputies Karmazin and Pravdenko. We have two questions, colleagues who are related, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine, and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine, registration number 5430. [[Registration number 3510-1]] [[on the storage of securities]] There is a proposal to unite them. Is there no objection? Then, please, I ask the Committee on Finance and Banking for the First Deputy Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich on both bills. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u88	Dear National Deputies! Clearly, the Securities Commission supports these bills. I'll give you a brief statement on each of them on behalf of our Committee on Finance and Banking. The essence of Bill 3310-1 is that the register of changes to the register of holders of nominal securities is obliged to make changes to the register of holders of nominal securities, or to give a reasoned answer to the refusal to make such changes within three days. [[I'm underlining.]] This is very important. Because you know, a lot of colossals are going around this. There's a sale, a purchase of securities. Registerers then, at times for a very long time, do not register new owners of nominal securities, and there are certain coalitions in the Fund’s market. In order to put an end to such coalitions and to limit, perhaps, the potential contravention of registrants in this case, we propose to approve this term for three days, and to approve it legislatively. As for the second bill, 5430, this is an opportunity for non-professional, institutional investors, who are not professional participants in the Fund's market, to have a stake in the statutory fund of other participants in the Fund's market, who are not professional participants up to 20 percent. Why did such changes arise? There is no doubt that the existence in our legislation of special restrictions on the participation of professional market participants in the statutory fund of custodians is well - founded and is in keeping with world practice. And now it's a 5 percent limit. But what about institutional investors who are not professional participants in the Fund’s market? Why when the development of the National Banking System requires an increase in the level of their capitalization, we now give up on sources of bank capital increase, such as insurance companies, non-state pension funds, other institutional investors. Because according to the National Securities and Stock Exchange Commission, 60 percent of the depositors registered in Ukraine are banks. Thus, in fact, the five - percent limit limits the ability of banks and non - bank financial institutions, which are not professional participants in the stock market, to have a significant share of one another. This is a very important law, and this restriction, in our view, needs to be removed. The committee therefore proposes to adopt these bills in the first reading and if there is no objection in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u89	Thank you, Victor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I'm in a bit of a hurry, we need to put these bills into the agenda. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[18:00:31]] For 319 Bills are included. We've already heard them. Shall we make a decision? Then I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine, registration number 3310-1. Please vote. [[18:01:11]] For 314 Copy that. There is a proposal for a profile committee to adopt as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on accepting it as a law. Vote. [[18:01:36]] For 319 The law is passed. I put to the vote in the first reading a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Depository System and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine, registration number 5430. [[about securities depositors]] Please vote. [[18:02:09]] For 310 Is there no objection to accepting as law? I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a law. [[18:02:31]] For 305 The law was passed in general. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article three of the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Crediting Transactions with Consolidated Mortgage Debt and Mortgage Certificates on the maximum size of the loan. Registration number 5239. The author of the draft law, Czernovetský Leonid Mihajlovich. [[6:03:12]] For 243 Questions in the agenda are included. Please, Chernewsky, three minutes. None. Then from the Terjehohin Committee, please, from your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the question is very simple. To date, mortgages may be issued no more than 70 percent of the value of the mortgage. I mean, there's apartments and stuff. What is proposed? To say that the bet could be a hundred percent. If this is 100 percent, then the cost of this loan will be reduced. So the people who get this loan are going to pay the banks less interest. So our committee suggested that we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u91	Thank you. We'll vote. Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u92	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, we are often approached about these loans because the state, like the construction of housing, is unable to provide its responsibilities in full today, and even in part cannot. So by virtue of this law, which is now reported by the national deputy Terjehochin, who is the author of the national deputy of Czernovetsky, we can provide funding for the building and other sectors of the economy, and the metallurgy, and everything else. So in the end, the price goes down, and the demand for housing and real estate is going to be better satisfied. This means that the law is positive in this regard and can be maintained. I think it's the first reading. If the committee offers and there will be no comments by the national deputies, then we can put it in general, because it is very small but essential for Ukrainian citizens, just for the consumers who will live, for those who want and for the defenseless groups of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u93	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I am voting on the basis of the draft law amending article 3 of the Law on Mortgage Loans and Transactions with Consolidated Mortgage Debt and Mortgage Certificates, registration number 5239. [[about the maximum size of the loan]] For 243, copy. It was an offer to accept as a law as a whole. Is there a denial? Unfortunately, there is. I stand for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act of some Ukrainian laws on the taxation of agricultural enterprises and support for the social standards of their workers. Registration number 5483, author of the Oleg Yukhnowsky Bill. We are voting on the inclusion in the agenda. For -330 It's on. Yes, we need to consider. Please inform Yukhnowsky for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, your view is suggested by the draft Law 5483 on amending certain laws of Ukraine, namely, the value added tax, the mandatory government pension insurance, the mandatory state pension insurance, the fixed agricultural tax. Dear colleagues, the draft law is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u95	Oleg Ivanovich, do you see the mood of the hall? Everybody wants to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u96	I ask you to support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u97	First reading. Well, Teryohin from the committee, please, a minute. Take down the vote. Teriochina’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, this law was a year ago processed by our 4000-1 law hall. Therefore, the committee’s proposal is not to vote in the first reading, but to vote in the first and final reading so that the next year the Cabinet of Ministers can plan budget expenditure to support the agricultural sector. So I have a proposal on behalf of the committee: to end this law, in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u99	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation of agricultural enterprises and support for the social standards of their workers, registration number 5483. Vote. For -351. Copy that. Should we support the committee as a whole? Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u100	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you to count on laws that have some kind of workload, whether it's the Pension Fund or something else, to be justified. So this law has to be justified, because coming to the Pension Fund is going to go down by about 20 percent. Let's see and listen to the government, Minfine, the Pension Fund, if they're ready for it. I'd like to hear it. I voted for the first reading. But let us not be hasty, Adam Ivanovich, in such serious matters. Because if the calculation is cut and the Pension Fund is still down to four and a half billion, what will happen? So I draw attention to those who require the Rules, what should be done with the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the last meeting of the Conciliation Board there are many, not so many, but some of my colleagues have been very critical of me for not taking note of the fact that when there's a remark I'm putting on the other side. I'm asking very much for a profile committee, work with Karmazin, and we'll vote in general next week. I won't bet, I won't bet. We agreed to that. Dear colleagues, let's vote in favour of shortening the deadline for the submission of proposals and consider it in a second reading next week. Who's in favour, please vote. Z-288. I repeat, next week we'll have him with you. Let's not. And the last question and we will do everything today. We need to include in the agenda of the day-to-day session a draft decree on the inclusion in the agenda of the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the report of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of road safety legislation by the Department of State and Mobile Inspection, the author of Bill Kravchenko, Bill No. 5113. Vote. For - 147. The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues! I want to thank you very much for your close cooperation and for doing everything we've pointed out today, you didn't even have to go on. I'll invite you to an active session tomorrow, because we'll be looking into it in accordance with the agenda. The first questions tomorrow are related to constitutional reform. At this evening session, the session is closed.
