ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. At the same time, please invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:53]] Registered -408 It was registered in the 408 National Deputies Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich, as part of the deputy group "Centre". Out of procedure, please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to ask you again and hand over these projects that were prepared by the Communist faction regarding the possible solution to the question of recalling our military contingent from Iraq. The Communist faction addresses everyone. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! The situation is dangerous and dangerous. It's not only the deaths of our military, civilian, and there, let's say, our people are suffering. No repetition of the same events is ruled out, and this is a frightening phenomenon of terrorist acts, as in Spain, in view of the fact that Ukraine is now a warring party, and our military forces are invaders in Iraq. Finally, let us understand that the Supreme Council should take this disgraceful phenomenon out of the hands of the Supreme Council, the Presidential majority, and the instigation of the military in Iraq. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to re-establish our project, which you have in relation to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! Because there is such an insistence, so that we can continue our work. I can only put to the vote first -- who's in favour of going back to the subject. And then to put it in the agenda, and then to look at it. That's why I'm voting. In order to return to the question of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq, please identify yourself. [[16:03:21]] For 133 The offer is not supported. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 12, "Regions of Ukraine" - 7, Communists - 59, SDPU (o) - 0, "Trud Ukraine" - 0, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, "Centre" - 1, "Deminicatives" - 0, "People" - 0, Agrarian Party - 4, "National Choice" - 0, NDP - 8, non-fractional - 4. It's being announced. We're continuing our work, dear colleagues. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 92 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the Determination of the Right to Permanent Use of Land in Public Organizations of Persons with Disabilities is under review. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please, from the committee. Is Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch here yet? Please. Please help our colleague. Please get ready for Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear friends, dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today, I am presenting a bill that aims to restore to the public organizations of persons with disabilities their established enterprises, associations, institutions and organizations the right to use land and land of state and municipal property on a permanent basis. This right in its time was practically fixed for long - term temporary use in Ukraine’s 1992 Earth Code. This was especially true of social infrastructure, social organizations of people with disabilities, hostels, rehabilitation centers, clubs, and businesses. However, when the new Earth Code was adopted in 2002, this rule was unfortunately not taken into account. The Earth Code, introduced on January 1, 2002, defines the right to use land permanently only for enterprises, institutions, and organizations of state and municipal property. Thus, according to this code, enterprises and organizations of social organizations of persons with disabilities must buy out their land or contract their leases. But I'm going to tell you that even pretty powerful U.S. public organizations like UTOS, UTOS, or their financial difficulties and the realities of their activities today cannot do this. Thus, the requirements of a valid code of land pose a real threat to the existence of social organizations of persons with disabilities, their enterprises, and the infrastructure that is designed for the disabled. That is, when the bill is being considered, it's about restoring social justice and the rights lost by the disabled, which were and during the drafting of legislation, the new legislation has disappeared. It is also worth noting that unlike the government bill that was here. And you and I were looking at, your esteemed colleagues, at the first reading of Law 4023, which was supported in the first reading, and then it didn't go through. There were also public organizations of disabled people and religious institutions. After monitoring the hall and factions, in fact, why the bill was not then passed, it was said that there were some contradictions in religious organizations. That's why this bill didn't pass. My bill doesn't need any extra budget expenses. He's supported by the Supreme Council's scientific expertise. And that is the conclusion reached by the Agrarian Policy and Agrarian Relations Committee. Colleagues, please support the bill during the vote and accept it both in the first reading and in general. This is one line that touches businesses with disabilities, their dormitories, their social infrastructure. The day before, literally, I've just met with a community organization of people with disabilities, a lot of calls and expectations for you. I see the hall isn't full. But I do hope your support that we are this bill from the same line that supports the disabled will be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u5	Thank you. Please sit down, Valery Mikhailovich. Lechenko Vladimir Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please, Volodymyr Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Change to the Ukrainian Land Code, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Suškević and Cibenk, which aims at granting the right of permanent use of Ukraine's organizations, enterprises and institutions with disabilities to land. After this consideration, taking into account that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has agreed without notice, and considering that the government is supporting the proposed bill, the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 5291 as a basis. I also support, on behalf of the committee of the author of the draft national deputy of Ukraine Suškević, to adopt this bill as a whole, because there is really nothing to throw and add here. It says that the right of permanent use of land from state and municipal property is acquired by public organizations of the disabled, their businesses, associations, institutions, and organizations. People's deputies, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u7	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this project? Let's just swap, two for, two against. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u8	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština For almost eight years now, property on earth has been introduced into Ukraine. It has also been established that both public authorities and local authorities have equal rights over the earth. That's why there are a number of problems in determining the right to use land permanently and especially the social organizations of people with disabilities. The amended and complementary bill aims to restore to the public organizations of the disabled their businesses, institutions and organizations the right to use land permanently from state and municipal property, which will restore social justice and rights lost by persons with disabilities. It is well - known that, in accordance with the Land Code, enterprises and organizations of disabled persons should purchase or contract their land by January 1, 2005. But because of the financial crisis, a number of businesses and organizations with disabilities are unable to buy their land or rent it. This, in turn, poses a threat to the disposal of social infrastructure objects that are owned by them. This includes dormitories, rehabilitation centers, clubs. Even now, these organizations are seeking help in resolving the issue of the transfer of land for permanent use. Such appeals came from persons with disabilities by sight, Afghans, and Chernobyl, because the amount that the State provides to sustain the social sphere is not even enough to pay. And there is a terrible burden on the shoulders of businesses, and the leases of the land lie. Then I would like to believe that the purpose and purpose of the bill will become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u9	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please Karmazin. Prepare Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u10	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national deputies, caring for the disabled is our constitutional duty, it is our duty, if you want to know, and God. We are obliged to care for the disabled, and the situation is now so complex that they are actually asking that they do not be disturbed. First of all, we made it worse by adopting the Earth Code in relation to these people, contrary to article 22 of the Constitution. And here's what we need to talk about today: the violation of the Constitution with regard to these businesses and these people. Because they were previously able to use the 1992 Earth Code for long-term temporary use up to the age of 25, and now we've taken that right and restricted it to them. Is it legal or illegal? Of course it's illegal. So we need to correct it as proposed by the national deputy Suskević. But you have to, it's going to be wrong, it's going to be in the first reading. Next, we need to consider a mechanism to provide for changes to article 141, which sets out the reasons for the suspension of land use. So we need to distinguish when a land area is given to dormitories, rehabilitation centers, clubs of different societies or businesses, and we need to distinguish when this land area might be something that God doesn't give, it's going to be an abuse of that right. Then it has to be predicted that in the case of something like this, there's a general reason. That'll have to be determined, too. I'm in favour of us adopting this law, as before. And when we accept new ones so that we don't narrow down the rights of the disabled. Taking this opportunity, I would like to draw the attention of all the national MPs present to the fact that right now opposite the Supreme Council there are people who have come from the Donetsk region, who are lying on the road, who have covered themselves on the street of Šovkovična. What's it for? They lie to draw the attention of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I have not seen the Deputy Attorney General or the Head of the Supreme Court or his deputies there, although the Head of the Supreme Council has already accepted them, he has also dealt with the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko is now dealing with the matter. I'm talking to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin again. I'm talking to the heads of law enforcement. Get rid of the people on Donetsk. People are showing you this right now and telling you what's going on. It is unacceptable that people were forced to lie on the floor today. I'm asking you to respond to all the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u11	Alexander the Turkinov, please. And prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u12	Respectful national MPs will certainly resolve many issues of disability, which are the constitutional responsibility of our nation. And I am convinced that the Supreme Council will approve of this law and will support those organizations of the disabled who today have the land, not to get rid of this land, nor to stop their productions, which allow for the survival of hundreds of thousands of people who have a degree of disability. But, dear fellows, I would like to draw your attention to what is even worse than disability is spiritual disability. It is this spiritual disability that gives rise to the disability of the social, economic, and inherent disability of our country. And it's this spiritual disability that not so many countries -- it's not capable of doing it -- have to do it by religious organizations. I want to remind you of the history of this issue and this bill. We already had a bill that provided for the transfer of land to both public organizations of people with disabilities and religious organizations. But when we looked at this question, there was an attempt to push into this bill also sports buildings, and other things that have a purely commercial orientation. And that's why the bill wasn't voted on. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you. Let's vote on this bill today, and let's add, in addition to social organizations, religious organizations. And that's the way we can do it in general with you three hundred votes -- no less -- to make this decision and to adopt this law as a whole. I appeal to you, to your spirituality, to your faith. Let us do this, and I think the Lord will thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u13	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, please. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u14	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I would like to turn to all the listeners who are listening to us today and remind us that the essence of the bill is to give the public organizations of the disabled of Ukraine, their businesses and associations, institutions and organizations the right to make use of land from state and municipal property. The language of the bill is understandable and worthy of support. Indeed, we have no right to allow the social organizations of the disabled, their businesses to go bankrupt, because their activities are very important -- they contribute to the social adaptation of the disabled, their material and moral support, their integration into society. Yet, the solution to this question is, in our view, to be found in a different plane. The bill sets a precedent for expanding the number of subjects who are entitled to permanent use of land that does not correspond to the concept of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Because organizations of disabled people with similar offers may be attracted by religious, other social organizations, and this process will be very and very difficult to resolve. It seems that the provision of public organizations of disabled land should be done on a general basis, i.e. by rent. But on the benefits of reduced and possibly even entirely symbolic prices. In each case, this issue should be decided by the local authorities. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that the bill can be taken as a basis, but there must be another way to solve the problem than to spread the circle of subjects of the right to use land on a permanent basis. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u15	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'll put it to a vote. Attention, please. - a proposal by the committee to adopt a draft law amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land concerning the definition of the right to permanent use of land by public organizations of persons with disabilities for adoption as a basis. Registration number of Bill 5291. [[16:19:54]] For 346 Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Not all at once, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like, as an author, one of the drafters of the bill and as chairman of the committee, to thank you for voting on my colleagues. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm making a proposal, let's vote on this document as a whole, because on March 18 it was already accepted in the first reading. And because of the differences, because of trying to bring other organizations into this document, we lost them. I beg my colleagues to support this document in a second reading. Believe that we will support, indeed, disabled organizations of people with disabilities, and people will be grateful to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u17	I see Lechchenko, then Turkinov, then Carmazin, and we're going to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u18	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I supported the committee in my speech, and this is agreed upon by the authors' proposal to adopt the bill as a whole. The proposals made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies from the rostrum are also made to the Supreme Council and are considered in an orderly manner. So today, the Turkinov bill has already been adopted on the committee and will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. He will be accepted and considered further. And today I support the authors to adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u19	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshchenko fully supports the national MPs here to adopt this bill as a whole. And we suggest, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is an offer to you and to your colleagues, by voting in general, to include "religious organizations" through whom. It'll only strengthen the bill. And today we have every opportunity to accept it as a whole. We see by the number of votes in the room that support this position. I beg you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now the bill, your honor's colleagues, will be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u21	Carmazine and we're going to vote now. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! There's an offer like that. In view of the fact that the law is absolutely necessary, the question arises as to what to do with those organizations that may abuse their rule, we have made such proposals, such as those of the people’s deputy Tkača, Suškević, and I, Yuri Karmazin, and we offer them. Now this law is adopted in two readings, the first and the second, in general, and in the Land Pay Act, to write that the supply of zero is taxed when this land is used for direct purposes. In the case that it's not used for a direct purpose what we've now suggested to write before the second reading, then predict the mechanism. That's the law. So now we're going to accept it as a whole, and we're going to assign a committee of Tomic and a committee on the disabled of Cibenk to prepare with us, and we're going to introduce this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u23	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. We, remember, considered this law, and then, by a voice, when we adopted it as a basis, we started making: religious organizations, sports associations, national and cultural societies, we didn't make any decisions. There's a draft law, you've supported it by a constitutional majority, there's a committee proposal, so I'm voting for approval in the entire draft of this Act to amend article 92 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the definition of the right to permanent use of land-use areas by disabled people's organizations. Please vote. [[16:24:30.]] For 368 The law is passed. Thank you. The Committee on Land Relations, John Fedorovich Tomić, is asked to take into account the proposal made by Yuri Karmazin and prepare a bill. The draft Act amending the Civil and Civil Procedure Codes of Ukraine on the right to information is being announced for consideration. Mikola Tomenko, Ukrainian national deputy Because this project is yours, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! A committee on freedom of speech and information and a team of authors composed of: me, as a national deputy; Sergei Gmiri, who represents the Communist faction; Edward Matthew, who represents the faction of the regions; and Yuri Artemenko, who represents the non-fractional. A few months ago, he proposed to clarify, edit and correct a series of rules of the Civil Code, which, as you know, came into force in the new edition of January 1, 2004, which had greatly restricted or created a two-pronged situation in the area of access to information by citizens and journalists. This is about several articles that journalists have been talking about and adopting resolutions at all their meetings over the past few months. First of all, this article of the 277th Civil Code, which proposed this definition: "The negative information that is spread about a person is unreliable." The current legislation of Ukraine or information or other areas of information activity does not in principle indicate what "negative information" is. So theoretically, maybe any critical information about the person in charge about a particular action can be found to be unreliable. In accordance with our laws, unreliable information must be refuted or held accountable in an orderly manner. I'm informing the people's deputies that, unfortunately, we already have three court cases under 277 today, where, let's say, specific officials in the local executive system think that critical material, let's say, about the mayor is negative information. Hence, she is unreliable and must be held accountable for her. Of course, our author group suggests editing this article, since it is a matter of completely misunderstood things. The second article, which complains the most, raises warnings from journalists, refers to article 302 of Part Three. It sounds, listen to what it sounds like in a new version of the Civil Code: "The information provided by the official official in carrying out her duties is reliable." So actually, an official according to a new edition of the Civil Code takes the presumption of innocence from the provision of any information. So let's say for days we've been looking at the tragedy that took place in the Novogoddanovka district of Zaporez. So I took an extract from the media. What Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Andrey Kluev said was said by Minister of Emergency Situations Gregory Reva, and what Defence Minister Eugene Marchuk said. They all gave different figures of the damage caused by this tragedy. If it comes out of the current Civil Code, we can't challenge the figure. All the information is reliable, although all three digits are different. Just like the situation where, for example, Minister of Emergency Situations Gregory Reva says that it was someone who dropped the fire, and apparently there were some special things in the fire that blew up this warehouse, and Eugene Marchuk says it's a special affair that someone wanted to clean up some money, stole a lot of it and decided to blow it up. According to the Civil Code and Reva's version, and Marchuk's version is reliable. What should we do to the average people’s deputies in this situation? How do we know who's telling the truth and who's telling the lie? Thus, this article is equally serious and needs to be edited. There are a number of articles that apply to copyright when, for example, media outlets print or publish photographs of a particular person or use information about him without his consent. Here we have more discussion points with the committee represented by Victor Musiak, with the Ministry of Justice. I want to say that the copyright team and the committee between the first and second readings are ready to take into account those critical remarks and the Ministry of Justice regarding these articles and the relevant committee, which is presented by Viktor Lavrentiovich Musiyak, but for us in principle, in principle, 277 articles and 302 articles I have mentioned. So I would like to ask you very much to support our bill in the first reading. And the committee that's authorized to do this, from legal policy, is working on it, and we're going to approve it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u25	Thank you, reporter. Musiaka Viktor Lavrentiovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy's subcommittee, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy on March 3, this year, considered a bill that reported to my colleague Tomenko and concluded that part of the bill's provisions should be taken into account, with Tomenko's presentation making it easier for me to work, because those two positions he called were the most perfectly formulated in the new edition of article 277, part three, and part two of article 302 where it is believed that the negative information distributed about a person is unreliable. I have to tell you, in the third reading of the Civil Code, there was an end: if the person who distributed that information does not lead to the opposite. It's something. And now the formulation is that the person who distributed it to prove that information is negative is the person who did it. It's okay. And 302nd, when it comes to official information distributed by a natural person, information coming from government authorities, local governments, these are transcripts, reports, speeches and so on, it doesn't need to be tested for authenticity. This is all already the prerogative of the relevant body. But they made one mistake, where they threw out a general formula, that the physical person who distributes the information should still check the reliability of such information. There are a number of situations that we think are unacceptable. This is a situation that can reduce, reduce the level of legal protection of citizens' constitutional rights where it comes from, for example, the use of the name of the person under investigation or arrested. You rightly say that if you do not have the right to use the name of this person in the media, to give a message, to use it in that sense, it may lead to abuse of that person and no one will know about it. But taking advantage of the circumstances of this person’s life that become known in the course of the investigation can already lead to abuse. On the other hand, it may be necessary to make the circumstances of a person who claims to be a public figure of his activity available to people so that they can become acquainted with them, as well as by the consent of that person. The conclusion of such a committee is that the first reading can adopt this bill, even more so given that we are going to the elections, and these circumstances, which have been called both the reporter and me, may matter during the election campaign. And the second reading we're going to do accordingly, removing everything that doesn't correspond to the law and the spirit of the law and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u27	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, prepare the Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u28	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The adoption of these amendments to the law will contribute to the full realization of the rights of individuals to collect, store and disseminate information about the rights of citizens to obtain. At the same time, at the request of the electorate, using the Supreme Council rostrum, I would like to send Mr. Bok to work well on the bill and to continue to use it. I'm referring to an article in the newspaper "Village News" on March 16th. Many of your newspaper’s supporters feel sorry for Mr. Bokom, who, along with Madeleine Albright, is concerned about one thought of helping Ukraine vote in the presidential election. And it's strange that she's terribly concerned that democracy in Ukraine is facing a critical test as the country prepares for the presidential election in October of this year. Well, do you, Mr. Boki, support Albright's statement that the path that Ukraine chooses has a huge opportunity for the United States and you agree that Ukraine has been an important partner of the United States since it gained independence in the 91st time that it refused nuclear weapons, supported peacekeeping efforts against ethnic clashes in Kosovo, stopped nuclear program Iran, closed the Chernobyl nuclear reactor, sent nearly 1,600 military personnel to Iraq and hundreds more peacekeepers of the UN operation to Liberia, Kosovo and other hot spots? I'd like to ask Mr. Boko why you're throwing dirt in your newspaper to the management of the Company, especially Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, who gave you the right to scold the truth, and who gave the American diplomat the right to intervene in the internal affairs of the country? Where was she in the 99th when Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko legally won the presidential race? She didn't see any gross forgeries on the side of the anti-national regime at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u29	I ask my honourable colleagues to speak on the subject. Artemenko Yuri. Get ready for school, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I think what Mikola Tomenko said about us adopting the Civil Code, which contains such standards of misinformation. The negative information and also the information provided by officials, the fact that it is authentic, is simply a horror. But there are still a few standards that need to be settled. In particular, we've forgotten in the Civil Code that we have to remove from the Civil Code the general prohibition of collecting information that is a state secret. Because today such relations are governed by valid legislation. But if we establish these standards in the Civil Code, it would be contrary to the notion that we have previously defined: what is "socially important, socially meaningful information." And it's also very interesting news, which is that we can rule out the position of article 296 in that we can only call the name of a person after the legal force of the indictment. If there is such a legislative restriction, it will significantly reduce the ability of the media to perform the functions of self-worth democracy. And there are also a number of norms, such as, for example, Article 278, that the court may prohibit the release into the world of violations, the release of media. In that case, we will face cases where the court's decision will prohibit the exclusive distribution of information that is negative, but generally the entire media. A number of negative thoughts on this subject, as well as thoughts on supporting this new bill, have been expressed by the National Press Association, public organizations working in the field of information among journalists, asking MPs to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u31	Yes, Andrew School, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Yuri Solomatin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u32	Thank you. I would like to point out, of course, that the bill amending the Civil and Civil Procedure Codes of Ukraine is, in principle, not bad enough, because attempts to improve the Civil Code, which. [[on the right to information]] And the civil procession that was adopted in the Supreme Council, the attempts are not bad, because the Civil Code in particular came out inadequately. That's very soft. So any amendment to it calls for respect for the people who make these amendments, but they form the law. But the situation here violates the right to a business reputation and narrows it down to the right to respect for that reputation. We need to know. Because in the event of a violation of a personal right, either the right to an answer or the right to acquit. These amendments are, unfortunately, neither prescribed nor foreseen. Because of course, there were curves at the same time total. What was written in the Civil Code on the right to provide information that the last truth in the institution is the official person and everything, and still there was a whole sentence missing, was said in the speech of the Musiyaki People's Deputy, in the situation here goes a little differently. So we don't have in principle the moral right to bend over in such a way that just the person who was made up of some or other publications has no right to defend the integrity of their business reputation, on. This business reputation. And let's imagine for a moment that what's going on with the media isn't going to happen all the time. Let's adopt laws and bills, propose to the Supreme Council that operate the long term, not the current situation. So I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies that this bill should work as a minimum, because it's a good idea, but it's set out to push the stick to the other side. And the bending of the stick often leads to it being broken. And the imbalance in press relations and the object of this press should not be, because politicians are public people, they're ready for any "actions" about it. But let’s take other people, such as doctors, teachers, when just a journalist’s mistake is possible or an orderly article can undermine, stress, a business reputation. That is, we must leave the right to protection. So I suggest you break it down into two readings: first and second reading. Only in that case could there be support to improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u33	The last speaker, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u34	The Communist faction, Yuri Solomatine. Dear colleagues! Of course, in general, though imperfect these changes and additions, they need to be supported, because even in conditions of bourgeois democracy they have a little improvement to make. When we talk about citizens' right to receive, collect and disseminate information, we need to ask the question, "What citizens?" Because in our country, in our society, there are two kinds of citizens: some who have everything and the right to everything, these are the money bullets and their pants and those who are so-called, disillusioned people who have only the right to ask questions and never get answers to them. So the dirt will pour and pour from the newspapers, from the television screens, from the radio, from the Internet, from this laundromat of modern media. And this dirt is meant for two branches of this capitalist bourgeois power to pour down on each other and prove to the destitute people of Ukraine that these guys are good and these are bad. Both of them forever. Can a person’s honor and dignity be protected through a court of law if false information about it is published in the media? No, never, for it remains like the elbow that is close but impossible to bite. Because to this day the Constitution and laws are written only for those who have money and very much money. Those who do not have the money will not even be able to file their application before the court and bring the application to trial. And one example of how they compete is those who want to prove that these guys are good guys, and these guys are bad guys, they're court cases that have been opened up around the newspaper "Village News" and the All-Ukrainian Jewish Community led by Rabbinovich. Both of them. And let none of these sides try to prove that it is the best, and it is more than the rest devoted to the Ukrainian people. I want to say to the end the next, honourable Ukrainian people, don't believe all those who are hurting for you, but they're trying to prove that they're good guys. The only political force around which we can unite to protect our rights is the Communist Party of Ukraine. Join us, we'll win together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u35	The speech is over. From the Black man's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, of course, these suggestions are correct, but I have some concern that they may be used against freedom of speech. Why? Because there's some legal cassualism here. It is suggested that the person distributing the information should prove that it is reliable. If she cannot prove herself to be reliable, she suffers damage as compensation for moral harm. The question is, What are the reliability criteria and not the reliability criteria? In addition, people who tend to view any criticism as unreliable information about themselves, especially the authorities. And sometimes true information can be hidden in such a way that it cannot be proved to be true, and it will stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, one minute. Yuri Carmazin, then Nicolainka. One thing at a time, we'll vote. Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u38	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to point out that we need to get out of the difficult situation that we're in right now. Because this project, like the others, even though we've already adopted them as laws, was not even included in the agenda. Then we have to get out of this. Whether we should vote back now, but that's what we have to do. Now for this project. In general, I believe that many of them can be accepted, as Mr Musiak said. I really don't agree with the position that was given here in the Rural News. This is not one of the only true newspapers in the state. And the attack on the newspaper, and the attack on her editor-in-chief, the attack on Boki as deputy editor. This is unacceptable. This newspaper is known as.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u39	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u40	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the question is really relevant. The question of information distribution is also, I mean, a very delicate question, it's more complicated than weapons. But on behalf of our faction, I would like to say that during the discussion, some of our radical comrades, something like this, took a very firm stand against John Sidorovich Boko, who is known in Ukraine as an honest, decent high-class journalist. That's why we are strongly opposed to the charges against John Sidorovich Boko and we ask, yes, and the newspaper "The Village News." It's enough that she's being locked up through the courts, let's do it and we're going to be trampling on a democratic edition. We're against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Question completed. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil and Civil Procedure Code on the Right to Information. Registration number 3547. Please vote. [[16:49:18]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The committee's proposal what? Let's do it again, shall we? That's right, the microphone, please. No, dear fellows. A righteous microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, we have here a little personified the problem, whose publications are better, whose publications are more honest, and so on. That's not what this is about. None of us, I mean journalists and anyone, has indulgence for life, that he's not wrong in every single publication. That's not what this is about. But I ask you to pay attention once again to this formula that is in the Civil Code: "The negative information that's spread about a person is unreliable." This is a complete absurdity that we must remove. I don't know why the sequel has disappeared unless the person who distributed this information can prove it. And you can prove it simply, Vladimir Kirilovich, you've confused it a little bit: there are documents and there's a court, and the court will decide whether it's credible or not. There is no other mechanism. I'm asking you very much, let's support this bill in the first reading. Let's work on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u43	Victor Musiak, the position of the committee, please, who led this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I think now, after these clarifications, maybe someone didn't understand something, if we voted it again now, I think it would be appropriate. If not, then read again. Of course, it is ready to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, I propose that I put to the vote the first time I read again, because whoever wants to hear it heard that we don't have precedents. I am voting for re-reading the draft Act amending the Civil and Civil Procedure Codes of Ukraine on the right to information. Registration number 3547. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[16:51:48]] For 260 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u46	The draft Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010 is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4235. The following rules are proposed: For the five - minute report, for the answer to questions five, for the co - report three, for the five - minute interview, for a discussion of 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u47	Thank you. Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! The level of work of the residential complex does not meet the needs of society today. So one of the priorities of the government's activities is to improve the efficiency of residential-communal enterprises, another of the main conditions for the sustainable development of cities and villages, is to increase the well-being of the population. The problems in the housing and utility sector have accumulated over a long period of time, leading to the critical state of the core funds again, the chronic loss of most enterprises, the significant deterioration in the quality of housing services and the corresponding increase in population dissatisfaction. System transformations in the residential sector are not justified. The lack of an integrated approach to market relations in this area, the legislative provision of this process, the necessary institutional transformations along with financial instability, the flawed provision of guarantees for borrowing capital funds, has led to the destruction of the crisis situation in this life-saving sector. Over 60 percent. funds in the field are depreciated, a third of the water supply networks, water supply is in an emergency state, drinking energy resources consumption for production, service delivery is 2-2.5 times higher than in Europe, and their share of the cost of production is 50 percent or more. You have been presented with a draft national programme for the reform of housing and utilities for 2004-2010, designed by the government to implement paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's relevant decision. Given the role and importance of the housing sector, its impact on the security of the whole state, in particular on the use of a significant proportion of fuel and energy resources in the production process and the provision of services to the population and economic operators, the project deliberately provides a fairly wide range of possible actions by local government authorities during the implementation of the State policy on housing and utility reform. The project takes into account the proposals and observations made during the discussion at the 9th All-U.S. Municipal Hearings held in September 2003 by the Foundation for Promoting Local Self-Government in Ukraine, together with the State-Congospo, the recommendation of Parliamentary Hearings "The Impacts and Perspectives of Privatisation in Ukraine", regional policy and local self-government, legislative aspects, the position of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The main directions for reforming the sector are defined in the program. The first is the organization of efficient management with market relations and the proper use of property complexes in the area of housing and utilities. The second is to ensure that housing and utility companies operate smoothly. The third is the technical restocking of housing and utilities, the approach to European Union requirements for the use of energy and material resources. Fourth: the legal and scientific and technical provision of reform in the field. What is expected to be done in every direction is literally done in a precise way. The creation of an effective system of governance requires the delimitation and organization of authorisations in the area of housing and utilities and local self-government, such as local self-government, ensuring the viability of local communities, owning, using and managing municipal property, validating public service tariffs, and determining their level. State executives ensure the creation of a regulatory framework, regulation, coordination and control in this area. In the housing sector, it is the completion of the construction of the homeowner’s institution by creating associations of joint owners of apartment buildings, the introduction of house managers, the establishment of company housing managers, the involvement of private enterprises, and business entities in the management of housing funds. In the area of natural monopolies: State regulation of the activities of entities in monopolistic water services markets, heat supply, water management, the implementation of delegated management of centralized water and heat and water supply facilities, based on the distribution of responsibilities between owners of municipal property and operating organizations, the transfer of them to management, rent, concession on a competitive basis to specialized enterprises of different forms of property. Ensuring business continuity is envisaged by creating an efficient economic model for their functioning, based on a transparent, economically sound tariff and social protection system, reducing unreasonable costs through economic motivation, ensuring the necessary level of consumer pay, and creating favourable conditions for private investment. The program, when adopted, will give impetus to the creation of an effective management system in the area of housing and utilities, allowing them to be raised in quality and quantity. The adoption of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u48	Yes, can I ask you a question? Please sign up. Please explain. Five minutes. The weaver. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u49	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Gregory Mikhailovich. I'm here, please look. Dear Gregory Mikhailovich, there is no doubt that a great deal of work has already begun in Ukraine to reform housing and utilities. Of course it can be said that it goes or better, somewhere worse, but in principle, thank God that thanks to the initiative of the committee headed by you, this work has begun. I have a very short question for you. Yet for today, as you know, there is a Cabinet of Ministers decree on reform, and if we accept this program, will they not contradict it? Will this decree of the Cabinet of Ministers be lifted, or will we act by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u50	Thank you. Indeed, there is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers adopted early in 2002. It's conceptually that way. The main thing is that there are no mechanisms to implement that reform strategy as defined in the bill. That's the first one. And the second. In this bill, we counted for the first time and the cost of reform. It's just stage one. And the main thing is that the financial model worked is how to get out of the crisis state in which the sector is now. According to our model, if all the issues in the program are solved in a complex way, we plan to leave the area of bankruptcy somewhere in mid-2006. And this will give the industry the opportunity to become attractive to investors, including private equity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u51	Please, Orzhachowski. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u52	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear reporter! I'll have a few questions for you. First. Please tell me what you're doing to get your revenge to have a clear control vertical from Kiev to the inhabited area? The other one. What do you think the villages need to do effectively in order to operate the communal farms that are being created today after the collapse of collective farms? And the third. According to your statement, the programme's 2004-2010 cost is 34 billion. Is it real, or is it that we have, as always, a rich people, and we can do much about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u53	Thank you. As for the first question to the vertical. Today, according to the Local Administrations Act, we have a vertical at the level of the district administrations of housing and utilities, according to article 32, they are accountable, accountable. We regulate human resources policies in these offices, and I don't see any problems here. With regard to local self - government, according to the law of utilities, it is subject to it. But we're working very well with the local authorities today, and I don't see any issues here. At the same time, we are now making a proposal to create a housing inspection committee at the regional level, which will be subject only to the level of our committee. With regard to the second question of rural utilities. That's a very good question. Today, virtually every village and village in the rural area has virtually no utilities in the rural area. So we are now working on government proposals to adapt rural utilities to the general housing system. We're already doing a pilot project in Crimea in the Bahchisarai district, where we're taking down both the management system and the interaction in the overall housing and utility system. Third question about the price of the program. 34 billion is the minimum that is foreseen for these six years remaining to finance this program. It's a small cost, because it takes a lot more money. As you've seen in the appendix of this program, there's government support, government budget and local budgets all equal and balanced tariff policy and the main involvement of private investment. Practice shows that world practice shows that only on the basis of tariffs, including the population, did no one draw on all levels of municipal budgets from crisis situations. That's why I said, the focus of the program and ideology are market transformations and creating favourable conditions for private equity to be involved in this area. So a system-wide approach will allow us to get out of this area. What about local budget figures first. This program is based on regional programs that are now approved in all regions. And we're going to expect these numbers to last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, we already agreed yesterday that let's respect those who also want to ask questions. We spent all our time on one question because there were four questions in one question. Please sit down, Gregory Mikhailovich. That's what I'll do if I do it. Okay, next time I won't announce. The head of the committee on the construction of transport, housing and utility, liaison with the Desert Tenko Valeriy Pavlovich, will report. Three minutes and five minutes to answer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, you have all listened carefully to the address of the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities. And unfortunately, at this time, the absence of this committee within the executive branch of our state has led to the fact that today the legislative framework for the development of housing and utilities seems to be the worst of all the issues that relate to the work of our committee. I suggest you do the following. I would like us to support the overall programme of housing-communal reform that has been considered in our regions, Donetsk, Odessa, Kharkiv and other cities in Ukraine. We held open meetings and made the most of the suggestions we needed. And in the second reading, we can make sure that we make those suggestions. who will come from the national deputies of Ukraine, from all the MPs and factions. That's one accent. Next. Why am I asking us to vote for this program? Because the government started work on the development of the 2005 budget. If we don't accept this program, think of it as being just dead for housing and utilities in 2005, there's not going to be any funds to support and fund the housing and utility development programme. So I ask you to take the basis of a draft national programme and vote for the proposals made by the Head of the State Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u56	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Any questions? Sign up. Dry, get ready for the question. Yes, please explain. Five minutes. Dry, behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u57	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, "Trudova Ukraine" faction, town of Zaporozhye. You know, in this room, there's been a lot of hearing and saying completely reasonable things about the fact that delaying the start of housing-communal reform every day is making it worse not only the quality of housing-communal services of the population, but it's also catastrophically deteriorating the effectiveness and reliability of the housing-communal economy itself. Please tell the committee when you analyzed the program, what measures are envisaged to ensure that price policy changes are linked, that the budget is filled and the quality and fullness of the services that will be provided? Is there such a reliable mechanism for ensuring interaction and communication?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u58	What I'm saying is that this is the kind of thing that's going to happen. In addition, the committee has supported proposals from parliamentary groups and factions to address the issue of Government Day on tariff and price policy formation and the provision of services to our citizens through housing and utility services. And we've also introduced a bill that will be defined separately on how to provide municipal services to our citizens. He will define a system for providing quality services and services to our citizens. So it's all in the program, and so on and so forth. But what I'm saying is that today the main problem is not just tariffs, but that depends on the overall strategy of raising prices for metal, electricity, gas and other energy, also on many other issues. So I propose to support this program, as I said. And we're going to solve a whole set of issues, including in the draft budget, and the committee is going to support and stand by with your help, both at the local budget level and at the state budget level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u59	Please, Tuck. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u60	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Valery Pavlovich, two very brief questions. The sources of funding for this program are budget, non-budgetary. I'd still like you to decipher what's meant by "forgetful expenses"? And the second question that has already been asked here is in this room. Your point is, this is not about reforming at all, it's about creating community services in the countryside. It actually doesn't exist today. So this is your view of how to form a community service in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u61	It is not difficult to create, but how can you keep it? That's the most difficult question. You must have heard my speech when we were discussing the implementation of the state-wide agri-industrial reform programme, I was talking about it. We have to transfer everything here and at the expense of budgets, the local budgets of the rural council, the village council, the district council, to anticipate the cost of housing maintenance, and to plan a number of structures that will perform these services, so we get the costs. And I don't see any problems here completely. It can work both in the public sector and in the private sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u62	Please, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u63	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Valeriy Pavlović, first question: the draft decree, which is handed down to the people's deputies, states that the committee recommends that it be sent. Valeri Pavlović, the draft, which we were given, stated that the committee recommends that the programme be re-readed. You're offering to support him. That's the first question. Second moment. As I understand it, you're going to reform the housing and utility sector through two of these, which means that it's actually through tariff increases and the other through private investment. With regard to the increase in tariffs, the population was clearly opposed. And with regard to private investment, people, too, when they hear about such private initiatives, have their hands stretched out to see if anyone got into their pockets. I mean, they're actually running out of approaches like this. Please, these two.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u64	I want to answer that, if it comes to tariffs, we've supported the proposal of a Communist faction on the committee and at an open meeting on Government Day, I repeat, with regard to the formation of housing and utility tariffs. And I've informed the government about this, and I think we should not only listen, but you already have a tariff mechanism for utilities that we should consider and decide on how to proceed with the government in this regard. It's on tariff. Now what I've been told is that the committee has made a different decision. The committee made a few more decisions, like this, more than a month ago. The program is delayed for one year, it's prepared for the Supreme Council's Order when we were preparing for the winter of 2002-2003. And today, there's nothing we can do to shape, to improve the work of housing and utilities as early as 2004. And today it's going down in 2005. So we put in a new draft of the decree, which he seemed to replace for us to take. [[B in m in s a l in]] Changes made. The changes that have been made, and I say again: we have to take the first reading so that the basic figures today are already foreseen by the government in the 2005 budget. For the second reading, we must make all the necessary adjustments. And without making the right decisions of the parliamentary groups and factions, taking all the proposals into account, we will not make this project a follow-up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u65	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich, sit down, please. The motives will be before the vote. Yeah, let's move on to the question. As agreed, 10 minutes. Please, Puzakov, get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u66	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The market economy system in Ukraine has led to the destruction and crisis of another area, housing and utilities. So far, it's low payability, lack of financial resources, debt on wages. And for some reason, only today is the Government's project of a state-wide programme for the reform and development of housing and utilities for the years 2004-2010, whose main objective is to improve the efficiency and reliability of housing and housing development to meet the needs of the population in residential services. This program needs to start not by increasing the efficiency and reliability of this area, but by fully reconstructing it, it is said, from zero. Let's look at the state of the technical equipment of the utilities, it's now in impossibility, zero. So we need to upgrade and renovate the utilities immediately, and we need reliable financial support to do so. I've told you several times in this rostrum that let's just stop thinking about Kiev's well-being. The time has come to think about the periphery, not to rob the budgets, but to leave them for the local needs. Secondly, it is necessary to address the issue of compensation to the authorities setting tariffs, the difference between the established tariff and the actual cost of services from the local budget. The program provides a vague distinction between the powers of executive authorities and local authorities. It's not clearly defined to determine the results of housing-communal reform. So this programme needs to be implemented in such a way as to ensure the efficient operation of utilities and to do everything to make sure that private investment and budgetary resources are visible in this area in order to improve the quality of residential services for the population, to achieve a real ratio of population action and its cost of services. And this bill is a faction of Communists that proposes to send for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u67	Please, Alexandrovska. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u68	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. First of all, I question the legitimacy of the name of the programme that we are proposing as a State-wide programme for reform and development of housing and utilities. It would probably be more appropriate and more appropriate to call it the “Programme for Restoration and Sustainable Development of Housing and Utilities” because the figures and facts indicate that housing and utilities are actually broken down and are in need of reconstruction. But first of all, I would like to say how this document is being considered today in the Supreme Council Hall. Bill 4235 of 15 March 2004 has been handed over to us, in which the committee, who is a member and rapporteur, today, the chairman of the committee is invited to re-read the programme. Many comments were made in the opinion of the Scientific and Expert Office, and the Committee shared all those comments. I'm not gonna do it all again. And there's a question. The programme itself has remained unchanged from March to May, the document has remained unchanged, so all the shortcomings that have been noted remain, but why is the Committee supposed to change its mind and invites the Committee Chairman to adopt it on first reading today. I am allegedly speaking because the members of the Ukrainian Compartium faction in the Supreme Council, the members of this committee claim that the Committee was not assigned, and therefore there is no reason to claim that the Committee has taken a different position. And now, in fact, the document itself. For example, I am concerned that a number of provisions of this programme are recommended, but it assumes that serious decisions will be taken at the local level and that further reforms will be determined by local authorities. The sad experience of the Harkov City Council allows me to conclude that if this rule enters into force, housing and utilities will be completely destroyed and the population will take on the full content of this economy. Because this programme, so-called State-wide, does not specify what means and from what sources will be taken to improve the situation in housing and utilities. We have an increase in housing and utility tariffs in Harikov. We have not revised the regulations to reduce them and, however, the total burden of reimbursement of all these expenditures on housing and utilities is being transferred to the population. Local authorities, under the acquiescence of the State Committee, are tearing down the last skin of the population. I believe that, as long as there are no scientifically sound rules, until there are sources of funding for housing and utility reform, we should not support this programme. And I hope that not only the faction of communists, but also the other first-readers will not support it, but they will re-read it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, Kirilchuk. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u70	Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Everyone will probably agree that in Ukraine today, among all the troubles that exist, which have taken place during this period of leadership of our country, this is a dying village and a destroyed municipal system. People suffer primarily from both. About the program. Well, probably everyone is being bribed by Valérie Pavlovitch with anxiety about this system of things that need to be done immediately. But it seems to me that the Cabinet of Ministers and professionals who were supposed to develop a really good program have made an all-out list of blurry items in this program. In fact, after we adopt it, if we accept it, we transmit everything, the whole content of this reform to the local authorities, the district administrations, and nothing will really improve. Because there's no change in leadership and the Jacks themselves. Every JACK has, look at the contract they give people, 19 points that they serve the inhabitants. Of those 19 points, only three are done. But for everything there are prices, people pay for everything. Now take the second fact. The cost of this system is three times less than the cost of utilities. This means a very simple scheme: some pay for those who do not pay. And these paradoxes go up because prices go up by one and a half times every year. You could give hundreds of examples and facts that need to be set up immediately in a short period, maybe it's two or three weeks, really, to create a program that needs to be worked out and carried out in order for it to be adopted before the start of the budget period. There's still time. But as it is, you cannot accept it. It must be sent for processing, since even two programs, under the heading 4094 on utilities, do not even collide with each other. And our Science and Experimental Authority has written on the 4 pages of their comments and is also proposing to retransmit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u71	The word is given to the national deputy. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I think there is no point in us today discussing what we must say about housing and utility services. In recent years, they have deteriorated radically, stressing that they have deteriorated. And that today, unfortunately, we are considering what should have happened in 2002 does not honor those who offer this document or those who discuss it. But I'm a few, so to speak, disturbed by approaches. First. I would like to say that, when we read in the programme that we will reduce energy consumption by 30 per cent by 2010, that we will essentially repair 50 million square metres of housing, that we will provide 100 per cent of the equipment of multi-housing houses with water and thermal energy accounting devices, I have a very logical question. Why? Because I am deeply convinced that if we are talking about building an economy under the laws of the economy, I think that this should be fully relevant and that we are passionate about housing and utility. In this regard, we are deeply convinced that once economic mechanisms are in place, we will be able to repair housing and utility services and housing. For this reason, I believe that there should be a fifth section in the programme, which should answer clearly and unequivocally the questions: how the public programme will reflect the responsibility of public service providers, other entities responsible for the maintenance and exploitation of housing in front of housing for services received or not received. That is, if we start this mechanism, if we're in this mechanism, if we're going to assume that a living piece of utilities is going to be counted for unprovoked services, for poorly provided services, or for unserviced services at all, then we're going to be able to move it away. Otherwise, we will constantly receive with you the documents under which the work is carried out, but unfortunately, it is difficult to see the real results. Then, from the foregoing, I can only say one thing. Of course, such a program is needed. It is certainly necessary to accept it in the first reading. But I am deeply convinced that once again, this programme should have a separate size, where it will be written, how housing services and those who deliver them are accountable to those who consume, i.e. housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u73	Thank you. The discussion is over, we'll determine. With the motive of voting, the Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u74	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you with such a request. Recently, according to your submission to the Special Supervisory Board, we won the Constitutional Court on adjacent accommodation in multi-room buildings. Today's the day. It does not say whether or not the decision of the Constitutional Court will be implemented. The second thing I'd like to mention. Today, people pay 30 to 40 percent of the average wage for residential services. According to this program, they're still going to pay for the capital repairs that they already paid 20 to 30 years ago. Tell me, please, how are we going to go to the voters today, and how are we going to explain this to them? So I think that before we vote, we need to take a closer look at the comments made by the science department. We can't charge today at the cost of services, housing services and capital repairs, and maintenance, and even unreliable information that applies to wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u75	Yes, please, I promised with the motivations of Kuharczuk and we will vote. Cooking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u76	Chef, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, as deputy chairman of the committee, I say that the committee has decided to refer the work to the committee or to read again. The program is needed, but in such a way, as the Cabinet of Ministers put it, it will give absolutely nothing but profit again from the residents. The proposal for such a faction of communists is to re-read it, look at the Government's Price and Tariff Day, and then start looking at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u77	Thank you. All right, good fellows. I'm reporting, in fact, here are the materials distributed under number 4235/P -- draft Order of the March 15th Committee and in exchange for the previously submitted - 4235/P of 11.05, a committee decision that says that the committee proposes to take the basis for the first reading. We'll be in charge of the committee's final decision. On the committee, be sure to find out which one is right or wrong. So be careful, I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Universal Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing for 2004-2010, registration number 4235, based on the first reading, please identify yourself. [[17:28:36]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "Ukraine" - 50, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 5, "Trudova Ukraine" - 29, SPU - 0, Timoshenko Block - 4, "Centre" - 12, "Deminicatives" - 12, Agrarian Party - 15, "The People's Government" - 15, "National Choice" - 10, NDP - 13, Postfaction - 12. A replica of what? Did anyone mention you? I didn't hear any mention of Alexandrovsky. A draft law amending Ukraine's Radio Frequency Resources Act is under consideration. New edition, registration number 4339. The committee offers us this Rules of Procedure: for a report of 3 minutes, for a reply of 5 minutes, a report of 3 minutes and a reply of 5 minutes, for discussion and decision of 10 minutes. Please give the floor to National Deputy Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! I'm speaking as an author and I'm presenting the view of the committee on the law on the new edition of the radio frequency resource of Ukraine. I'm not surprised to say that we are living in a time of rapid development of information and telecommunications technologies. This boom did not escape Ukraine. Thus, in the last three years, the volume of telecommunications has increased 1.9 times, and mobile services have tripled. The volume of telecommunication services using radio frequencies has increased from 26 percent to 40 percent, and this trend will be maintained in the coming years, because the rate of increase in normal phones is 5 percent to 6 percent and the mobiles are almost 100 percent. The question is, is there a possible successful development of the sector on an existing legislative basis? Unfortunately, the answer is no, because we just don't have enough radio resources. Up to 70 percent of the spectrum is used on a free-of-charge basis, and the vast majority of the other thirty is a spectrum of military use. No radio request in Ukraine is considered without a positive conclusion from Genstab. To compare the example of England, where the military uses no more than 25 percent of the spectrum and is used on a paid basis. So one of the main tasks of this law is to remove a very valuable radio frequency resource from the blue dog. Waiting for a frequency license even if there is an appropriate service license is also a major problem and lasts for years. In addition, over the past three years, no frequency competition has been introduced to introduce new radio technologies. This inhibits the development of the telecommunications market and results in huge budget losses. Once again, honourable deputies, I will return to the example of England, where in 2000 the State Budget received £22 billion for radio licences. You can imagine how much the Ukrainian budget is losing. Finally, another important moment. We took the first progressive step last year in reforming the legislative security of the telecommunications sector. The law on telecommunications became effective. The proposed changes to today's law are a continuation of this progressive trend, where the licensing function will be removed from the shadows, will be transparent and will benefit both the economy and the budget of Ukraine. In this way, telecommunications operators will have enough serious space to work in Ukraine. I have a plan in my hands for England to use a frequency of 10 years. Every entrepreneur or public operator can see their place here. We don't have that document. Our law clearly defines the need to create such a document, a transparent licensing system, serious budget receipts, which we estimate at least 100 million a year and thus are serious. forward in the field of telecommunications. The point of view and our committee on communication and the media committee is positive — to support it in the first reading. It's the same conclusion and the Expert Office. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u79	Thank you. Please, no questions, that's what I understand. Is it? Then let's write it down. Please explain. Five minutes. Yavorowski. Behind him, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u80	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yuszczenka Block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! I'm very glad we've discussed this bill for the second time, actually, once at a round table. I'm curious, you're just more familiar with this subject for me, so I'd like to hear your answer. Of course, our frequent space to this day remains very melitarized. That's so figurative. It's just under the influence of the Ministry of Defense. We don't use it effectively and evenly, let's say, in civilian life, which would make a lot more money. How can this law help us to cope with this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u81	The answer is you're absolutely right. The problem of further telecommunications is, first of all, the lack of transparency in licensing, and actually the absence of competitions on this issue. And second of all. The position of the Ministry of Defence, which uses more than 70 percent of its frequency free of charge. Our law proposes to pass these functions on to Nacradi on telecommunications, first. And second of all. Make this system transparent through competitions. From our point of view, in the second reading, we could talk about the moderate for the Ministry of Defense to pay for the frequencies they use to encourage them to transfer excessive radio frequency to the civilian sector to develop the economic needs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u82	Please, Baranowski. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u83	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'm supporting a previous colleague who said that the radio frequency is extremely melitarized, and I think it's corrupt. You said, Your Honor, we're short a radio frequency. At the same time, examples can be cited when individual firms use it by 3, by 5, by 20 percent, while others maintain it, and thus other structures cannot take possession of it. What's more, the unused radio frequency resource, it's practically nothing in the budget, it's not making any profits, because it's just frozen. Please tell me whether appropriate sanctions are provided and, let's say, fines up to the loss of a license for that portion of a radio frequency that is not used or used, but taken, so to speak, for the purpose of reselling or other purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u84	Dear Alexander Petrovich, you have raised a very serious problem and we have partially resolved it during the budget vote. The new budget provides that the owners of the radio frequency resource and the corresponding licenses are paid even if they do not use it. And by the way, immediately after that, there was a huge increase in payments to the budget. I can say that more than 50 million bracelets, and there were 20 planned, have already been received by the Ukrainian budget at this point for the cost of the resource that has so far been free because it has not been used. On the other hand, in this law we're actually offering sanctions until the licenses are disbarred in case the radio frequency is not used if it's purchased during the competition. The fact is, indeed, many monopolies are buying up an interesting relationship with power, buying up a radio frequency to prevent competition. This law will prevent such monopolies from being carried out by individual operators. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u85	Thank you. I, Adam Ivanovich, am surprised that you gave me your word, because lately you've stopped noticing here, perhaps for ideological reasons or for any other reason. Because you know, volunteerism was condemned as far back as the CPRS Plenary in 1963, when Stalin's cult was developed. So let's do it without volunteering in the middle of a session.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u86	Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u87	No, no, I want to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u88	Turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues, I repeat, behave as you do under the Rules. When you have the right to speak, then you say when you just want to talk and you don't have the time, so please don't blame me. You didn't talk about it. So please, the next Nadara.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u89	Dear colleague, I have heard your critics' opinion that your bill implies the creation of another monster who, as a state structure, will sit on these frequencies and start ruling the ball in his own way. And that, with all the references to helping us bring legislation into line with an international standard, in fact, we are still creating a monster, again, which will be without reference to any legislative elements also volunteering to divide these frequencies as now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u90	Vassili Ivanovich, thank you for asking. I'll try to tell you that's not true. First, the letter from all the presidents, all the national media supporting the law, shows that many operators understand the fairness of our law. For them, the bad practice of walking in two windows after licenses ceases. First to the military, then to Nacsev on TV. There will be one normal operating system. Second. Indeed, there is a fear that the new Telecommunications Council, created next year, may fail to perform its major functions. That is why, as you can see, in the draft regulation that you are invited to do, we propose to vote in favour of transferring this function of licensing the frequency of the Nacsovét in a year, that is to say, to enable them to work with less authority, to develop the machinery, the experience required for legal documents. It is only then that we move on to this pan-European normal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u91	Thank you. Please have a seat. The committee reports to the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko. Three minutes. As long as Valery Pavlovich is on his way, I will continue the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u92	Three minutes. I want to confirm that we have also considered this issue extensively at the committee meeting and I can say that there was only one remark signed by the Deputy Head of the State Liaison Committee. It is to provide for a transfer to the National Commission to resolve this issue from 1 January 2006. And the second item they proposed was to provide for the financing of radio frequency monitoring at the expense of radio users. Therefore, we immediately make these suggestions so that they are marked in the decree and do not go away. And these questions will be considered and included in the second reading. And there's no change. And we went to meet the committee so that it would be able to regulate the frequency. Today, there are many free frequencies that are not used in our country. And this is just an increase in the income of the budget and an increase in the work in the field of telecommunications, which is very stable in our country today, and it's increased production by 140 percent. I'd like to support that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u93	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Please, if you have any questions. No, Valery Pavlovich, there's three more minutes to ask. Sign up for questions. No, Valery Pavlovich, don't go. Light up, please. Three minutes. Manchulenko, get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u94	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, there is no doubt that we should deviate from the standards that existed in the Soviet Union when the radio frequency was actually monopolized by military and special services. We have to keep a different order. Here I agree with this bill. On the other hand, too much radio liberalisation. Or it will lead to some problems in the use of radio frequencies by structures that perform special functions of the state. This is the Ukrainian Security Service with its intelligence structures, the Ministry of Defense with the Head of Intelligence, and so on. I mean, isn't there going to be some threat to their activities? And secondly, wouldn't it be unnecessary to create a new bureaucratic structure, the National Council for Telecommunications? Would this body duplicate the functions of existing similar government structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u95	Well, thank you for asking. First of all, we've already decided in the Telecommunications Act that this is the National Council that will regulate these issues already created. And it was only a question of when we're going to hand it over, or from 2005, when the National Council should be in operation, or from 2006. We're going in that direction. There's actually no liberalisation, and we're just releasing that part of the radio frequency of our state that's not being used. It should take money, produce and enable the state to earn money and send it to the State Budget and everything. State control must be necessary. And we don't have much if we have a radio-frequency license, but they're not used today by those structures that were previously licensed. Therefore, consideration of such matters must also be necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u96	Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u97	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give the deputy Bulby a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u98	Bulby's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u99	Stepan Bubba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Valery Petrovich, Valery Pavlovich, I'm sorry, however, about trying to take away and on the same terms to give frequency, let's say, to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I think that's the wrong approach, because we've made a lot of mistakes about the Armed Forces. Already the land is taxed to them, so it's already a tax on individuals and so on. So let's take this right over here. no, obviously there is a need to do that. Obviously, the frequencies that will be used by the Armed Forces and no other attempts there must be determined, so they cannot be placed on one board. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u100	Okay, I'll answer that. Today, the Armed Forces have radio frequencies because they need as much as they need. That's why we need to determine how much it takes to ensure State security and the Security Service, and for other security agencies, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the last thing we need to do for it, to develop it. And there won't be any problems. We don't take what we need. On the contrary, they are not used today, and they are not done in any state of the world. War will be provided within the limits of how much it takes. They're 300 percent there today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u101	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. The events in Melitopol showed whether there was more military, something less order, perhaps. Have a seat, Valery Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, we have six national deputies. Ten minutes away. If those who signed up had agreed for two minutes, we would have given each one a word. There will be no objection to who will speak? Then, please, two minutes, and everyone will act. Please, Tomenko, prepare for Artemenko, but Rules 2 minutes as agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I wanted to inform you that our committee was discussing the bill and decided to support it in the first reading. There have been serious discussions at the drafting stage of the bill, and we have been able to agree on the principle of conflict, and to this day only the details that can be agreed between the first and the second readings are relevant. I wanted to say that, and Adam Ivanovich would support that after Melitopol's history, when the Secretary of Defense said that our people's greatest threat is the Ministry of Defence and their own army, unfortunately, and that's a sad and tragic word, and they're extrapolating to the radio frequency situation, because three-quarters of that resource belongs to a group of people who perform it on behalf of the military. They can sell them somewhere, they can pass them on to others, for example, to foreign structures and so on. And that's why the management model, where there's a responsibility for the distribution of the radio frequency, is what we need to do. I think we should've gone to more radical things before the second reading, and I tend to say that, let's say, the national distribution table for radio frequencies. Maybe it should even be approved not by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it's national wealth, it's hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars, and maybe it's a document that needs to be approved in the session hall for about 20 to 30 years to know where it's going. So the model where the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the new plan in accordance with the Telecommunications Act, the General Staff of the Armed Forces agree with their interests, and we understand how the distribution issues are resolved, then the responsibility for not using this frequency resource is the management model that we need to support, and which, most importantly, then control and implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u103	Thank you. Please, Artemenko. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to another novel in this bill. Today, there is a conflict between two laws. On the one hand, the law on television and radio broadcasting, which says that a television company is only enough to get one license, and is the law, the existing regulation on radio frequency, which is about getting a license to use a radio frequency resource. That's the kind of conflict in the 2 laws that creates a situation where television companies are forced to get 2 licenses, which is a violation of the basic law on television and radio. What is more, there is a problem today when television companies ask for a radio license. Radio-frequency licenses to the State Department of Communications. They're not going to get it because somehow the Communication doesn't issue these licenses, and over the last three years, no TV licenses have been issued, they seem to be, say, a mobile operator, but. communication, but not by television companies, and because of this, the lack of a license to use the radio frequency of the company cannot obtain permission to use the radio transmitter. And that's already a violation of the law, and as a result, electrical inspections can always shut down any television company. The new edition of the Radio Frequency Resource Act, it eliminates this problem, it makes a rule that the only license can be obtained only on the National Council for Television and Radio. So our committee, the public, the national independent language association, the network language association is asking for the support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u105	School has the word. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u106	The school of Andrew, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, this bill needs to be supported beyond how the radio spectrum actually is in hands where it is essentially unnecessary. And there's no discrimination against the army, believe me. Because the army must first be provided with means so that they can use these radio frequencies. The other one. I would like to point out that the Security Service needs some kind of radio frequency. I wonder why. The Security Service needed a special secret mobile phone, with 9 million dollars allocated. Nine million bracelets have disappeared again, there is no connection, radio frequency is needed. Next. Kyivstar provided every employee with a mobile phone and a unlimited conversation card, of course, on business only. And so I would like to point out that all these radio frequencies are an unnecessary load on the army, believe me, at the Security Service, at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's like a suitcase without a pen, it's a shame to throw it and it's hard, and you don't have to carry it. And that's the damage, that's the cost accounting, that's the end of the budget, that's the weak, absolutely no kind of Ukrainian air, it's flooded with the three favorite stations of today's Prime Minister, where they sing about his youth. [["Shanson" radio and stuff.]] So I think this is also one of the elements of the absence of competition in the radio frequency of Ukraine. And the fact that radio frequency doesn't just give any licenses is connected. We understand that this is primarily related to what is going on with the supply competition, and a small offer is being made with frequency. There's gotta be a lot of frequency. The army must and must share a heavy load for itself. So I am convinced that the first and the next readings should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u107	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u108	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, now they're asking whether we should leave the army, the security forces, the police to control radio control or not. All over the world, we've come to civilian control. And it was quite right here that my colleague Lucenko said that England has more than twenty billion pounds. If even we had five times less, this is a figure that would be a third, a quarter of our budget is absolutely real. So if these real costs are not available today, where are they? And they're right there in the shadows, hidden in secret. But there's much less money hidden, because there's no, there's no transparency, and there's no transparent competition. Is there a question to this law? Yes. There are some disagreements, there are other things. Well, for example, in article 15, I'm paying attention to the authors, you're using "state electrical inspection." At the end of the day, we have a lot of questions, but there you have "the state liaison and radio inspection in Ukraine." And in that law that we're now referring to telecommunications there: State liaison inspection. I mean, it's a whole different concept. Let's get them to one. In addition, I strongly oppose that in the final positions we write as follows, paragraph three, as stated here: "All licences issued to users of the radio frequency resources of Ukraine, as proven by this law, remain valid and the term specified therein." It's now, tomorrow they're going to print mass and everything, and they're going to see. We need to do a review of this. The revision should be made from the adoption of this law. I insist that we rule it out. That's not such a good point, you know. It needs to be ruled out and viewed really on terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u109	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Mironenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u110	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, the bill has shortcomings that actually exist in the current system of the Gocommunity. The State liaison did not conduct any competition, lack of transparency, the arbitrary actions of the Gocommunity officials impeded the completion of the State budget and the creation of new jobs. Such a state-of-the-art vice has now become common practice. I'm going to bring in one fact that I'm going to bring up yesterday, but I'm going to put it all the way out so that some people won't be able to hide the truth. In grave violation of several laws, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Minister of Labour of Ukraine, Kirpa, issued a very dangerous order No. 312 of 15 April 2004 on the resubmission of port port service with money, property, the subordination of one entity, Delta Lotzman, which already causes disordination, damage to the safety of navigation, poses a threat to the lives of people, the environment, and increases the number of unemployed. For example, the Kerchen Sea Trade Port lost 30 per cent of its income, doomed to a reduction, dismissal of thousands of people, which is scary for the unemployed, poor town of Kerch, where businesses are located. This order has been issued for the purpose of criminalizing port money for the benefit of someone close to the Delta Lotzman structure, and has cynically violated articles 75, 88, 92 of the Code of Merchandise Shipping, which impose the functions of maritime safety on ports, in violation of many articles of the Ukrainian Economic Code. The Competition Protection Act. The residents of the poor town of Kerchi, which is suffering from the closure of businesses, are demanding that the Prime Minister introduce a criminal bill. If this does not happen, it will be seen as support for a non-legal way of violating the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u111	Thank you. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I have two joys today. The first is when we voted on the first question and actually proved, about Mukachevo I mean, and actually proved that Medvedchuku didn't manage to capture all of us, that there are personalities in Parliament that today are able to resist all of that semi-fascist handwriting that is in Ukraine today. And there is a second joy. I've never done this before, and today I want to do it. I just want to give Yuri Lucenka some advice, because for the first time, I've actually read a bill that reads the only thing: national interest, trying to get out of the shadows of what's pushing people's money and spreading it in their pockets today. It is indeed a beautiful law. We were also on the round table on the subject, discussing this bill, where the elaborate mechanisms are not jumpy, and slowly entering into the bill. Because we, really, like a dog in blue, sit on this frequency resource and we don't know who's using it. At least, Your Honor, I'm convinced that if before, let's say, the bribes went out there in the shadows, they would be much more transparent after this law. Something's about to go on this one, on our national commission and stuff. Even that's a good thing. And in conclusion, I want to say and turn to the Desert Woman, whose fraction today has simply shown courage, and I welcome them. We've forgotten, the people's deputies, our control functions, we've got them, we've got the people, not Medvedchuk, Kuchma, or anyone else, we don't use them. And because of the same Crumb we don't check. You can imagine, 10 days in the Writer Association, the phones are turned off at the direction of one Medvedchuk alone. That's where we live. Scary, isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u113	The discussion is over, we will be determined. Dear colleagues, I will put the committee's proposal to the vote. The committee proposes to adopt, on the basis of the first reading, the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine, Bill No. 4339. [[new editor]] With motive? I'll tell you. Take down the vote. Yuri Anatoliyovich, if the committee doesn't edit, then I'll put your proposal to the vote. You can't make suggestions because you're not a committee. We vote Bill 4339 in the first reading as a basis. [[18:00:29]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's consult. I'd like to ask you. Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u114	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed in the final positions, because the first reading makes a conceptual decision, to vote without the third paragraph of the final clauses, as all licenses issued to lead retain validity for the specified term. This is going to delete. Why? It's to avoid contributing to corruption, that's all. For the time being, as we look at it, we can issue all the licenses on all the radio frequencies for 50 years. And then what do we do? And they will, Adam Ivanovich. And I suggest we vote that we just delete everything. And I voted in favour, just like my colleagues. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u115	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You're right, but not really. I mean, if we didn't accept it as an editorial committee, then we could vote, and that's how it stays eligible for second reading. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we have a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the national material reserve. This is Bill 4168. If we had no objection, we would have accepted it in the first reading. No objections? I'm voting on who's in favour of adopting a draft amendment law in the first reading. Yes, please, Assadchev. Now, now, a minute. Please, Assadchev from, I get it, from the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u116	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! In general, this bill is quite more technical. But there is one norm, a norm that relates to the release of the material reserve and its enterprises from the holding of contracts they have made. Of course, this affects the budget, although it cannot be said that there is much influence. We just got off the phone with the head of the state reserve. If they're cleaning up the word "enterprises," because they're the same subjects of farming, and we think it's going to be incorrect, and it only leaves the structure of the material reserve as a state institution, the liberation, I think, in principle, you could even vote then in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u117	Okay. Dear colleagues! Mikola Fedorovich, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'm good.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-12-m1.u118	I mean, you agree with that. Then, according to an editorial statement made by Assadchev from the committee and agreed on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, I propose to vote in favour of the law as a matter of law. [[18:03:35]] For 323 The law is passed, thank you. And, dear colleagues, two more minutes of mobilization. Thank you, Mikola Fedorovich. We've got some left. Now, now. We've got a lot of ratification issues left. I just, if it's your will, there'll be a denial, no. Let's see: the draft law on ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and Romania on the regime of the Ukrainian-Romanian state border, cooperation and mutual assistance from cross-border issues, registration number 0182. Vote? Vote, please. Vote. [[18:04:30]] For 269 Shall we vote on the Panamus? Draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Panama on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Shall we vote for the gentleman? Please vote. [[6:05:12]] For 323 Decision taken. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Panama on the Extradition of Offenders. Let's support this one. [[18:05:42]] For 346 Thank you, 346. I see you're a little tired. This evening’s session is closed. Tomorrow I start work at 10:00, and I remind you that tomorrow I'm gonna be working with you a little off schedule for Thursday. We're actually going to be working tomorrow instead of Wednesday, so we're just going to have a plenary meeting in the morning, and we're going to start meeting committees and parliamentary hearings on higher education. Good-bye.
