ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Yes, I'm asking the distinguished national deputies to take up their jobs, prepare for registration. I would suggest to my fellow believers that we have the principle of objective conversation, perhaps narrowing down the slogans so that we can get out of the country’s needs and not feel pressured by one another if we have the good will to do so. Please prepare for registration. If anyone else has any food, bring it here to the lobby. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. So, I'm asking your respectable colleagues to come, well, take your seats, well, let's not create precedents. [[12:07:54]] There were 428 national deputies registered in the session hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National MPs. Today is a day of memory for victims of famine and political repression. Please honor the memory of the victims of famine and political repression by a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u2	I'm asking you to calm down. Please sit down. Before starting an extraordinary session, I make an urgent request, an urgent request, to the national MPs. If you want us to make an acceptable decision in the interests of Ukraine, you can absorb your emotions and keep them close to you. And let's talk about essentially the subject. Yesterday's Conciliation. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of our colleagues: Bachtieu's Aunt Dmitrovna, Diminsky Peter Petrovich, who was 50 years old, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrina. And Fixa Efim Zysevich. Let's welcome our colleagues, wish them success of all kinds, okay. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, taking into account the political situation in the country under article 424 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, made a proposal to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene today's extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss the issue. The Conciliation Council proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider just one issue of the political crisis in the country that arose in connection with the election of the President of Ukraine. Well, let me tell you, then the procedure will be! Well, calm down! One minute! Such Rules of Procedure are proposed. And this is the decision of the Conciliation Council. Well, let's do it now, dear fellows! Ladies and gentlemen, we have always included a broadcast to the street at the invitation of the national MPs. I see there's such an offer, there's such a requirement. Please turn on the broadcast, I don't see a problem. You don't have any objections, do you? None. Thank you. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the Conciliation Council proposed such a Rules on this issue, which revealed this meeting of the Chief of the Supreme Council and presented a vision of what was going on in Ukraine. I think it's going to be a concentrated vision of what's going on in Ukraine, the MP Corps. After that, he spoke from MPs and authorized factions. Up to five minutes to make a statement and move on to a draft decision, a decision. We agreed in such a way that we will vote separately on the preamble each paragraph, and that item that will not find support in the Supreme Council of Ukraine 226 votes, at least 226 votes, will be considered as a decision taken by the Supreme Council. It was our unanimous decision. Now they're prescribing you, they're handing you over. We agreed on a draft decision, actually. Dear colleagues, we agreed that all proposals from MPs and factions would be taken into account, and then we made choices in the decision to take into account the mutually exclusive proposals made by national MPs. Then we'll vote on both the points and the options. I'm asking the people's deputies. Honorable colleagues, return the parliamentary cards that just temporarily took advantage of them. Give me a list of cards I don't have, I'll make them now. The draft decision is now being handed down to you. If there is a motive, please write it down. Five minutes of motive. We have come out of what is already said by the honourable national deputies. We have to determine our position and make decisions, or not determine our position or make decisions, and the excess talker is no good. So on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Rephat Chubarov. Please. Prepare for the Final. Five minutes of motive, we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u3	Please give the floor to the MP, Mathienne Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u4	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u5	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Thank you, Mr. Chubar. Dear colleagues, national MPs! I address you first today, your wisdom and your balance! I don't think we can leave this room today until we make a decision. We need to understand that there is an extremely difficult situation in Ukraine today. We see today that the Constitution is being ignored. Eastern regions. Yesterday, for example, in Kharkiv, a decision was made in general by Separatist. That's something you have to answer for. We have the breakup of Ukraine to stop. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose to work until we make a decision. And the decision we have to make today is to give up the decision of the CLTC and announce the new election. Voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u6	Yes, Final, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u7	Yes, Mironenko, Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, Communist faction, Mironenko 5th constituency. First of all, we ask that the draft order be handed out as soon as possible because it is not very serious. We will not be able to prepare and study the project. And the question is extremely serious. That's a first. Second. We would ask that there be no provocations here, including oranges and so on. If the question is serious, we should not make it a joke. There's no need to provoke any conflict. Third. I, on behalf of my constituents who have elected me twice in the Kerchen constituency, to Crimea, in 5 constituencies, demand that the provocations around the Supreme Council of Ukraine cease in order to put an end to the pressure on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the Supreme Court of Ukraine and personally say my position. In my view, there can be no pressure on the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has no constitutional right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u9	Yes, thank you. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u10	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm going to speak Russian to my colleague. If a representative from the "Region" faction did this right now, I would applaud him, but I don't quite understand your tone. Second. The faction of socialists has categorically insisted that there should be a discussion, Vladimir Mihajlovich, including as agreed on by the Consent Council, including by the People's Deputies. And third. We firmly believe that the High Council should not leave today until a decision has been taken: that the elections have not been re-voted. And the mistrust of the Central Electoral Commission. Otherwise, we will disappoint our citizens, and I want to tell you that this will be a great loss for our State, for Ukraine. And I want to address the East. In no case should decisions be taken to destroy Ukraine as a State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u11	Yes, Michael the Great. People's agrarian party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u13	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u14	Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now in Ukraine, there is, on the one hand, a peaceful demonstration of opposition within the Constitution, and on the other, under the direction of the President's administration in Eastern Ukraine, there are councils that are anti-constitutional, under the direction of the governors, divided by the state. We must do everything, today, to decide on the mistrust of these governors, to call here the President of Ukraine after expressing distrust of the Central Electoral Commission, so that he can immediately put new candidates into which the hall, the vast majority, will have confidence. He must decide here to release such governors, who are ruining the constitutional system in Ukraine. We must protect the state-state Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u15	Yes, Uncle, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Squire.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u17	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u18	Thank you, I'd like to address the people around the Supreme Council who are the citizens who are here first. I want to thank you for your active position, thank you for your civic consciousness, for coming here at a time when you could rest quietly to protect your voice. Of course, I'd like to turn to the Communist faction, I'm asking you not to turn into the Communist Party of Ukraine, it doesn't suit you how little you have to act neutrally right now. Because the situation in Ukraine is so threatening right now that it is impossible to understand. The now speaking croaking governor should have been arrested long ago in a normal country for betraying national interests, for inflaming international hostility, and for overthrowing the constitutional system. To him, as you can see, the reordered police force of the Kharkiv region is the usurpation of power. And I am convinced that the Kharkiv governor will find his place on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u19	Yes, distinguished national MPs! We took advantage. The replica. The Communists were mentioned, please Peter Simonenko, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u20	Dear radio listeners! We have a difficult situation now in the Supreme Council, as in society. Thus, accusations are being made only for one purpose — how to force provocations — to change the position of a faction. The Communist faction claims that we are essentially in favour of the only Ukraine, we are in principle in favour of the unity of the people of Ukraine, we are basically against the oligarchs and the bandit clans. I would like to remind those who are now trying to blame the eastern regions on those initiatives that are now beginning to remind you and the honourable master who spoke before this: not in Lviv in the 91st year. You've shown an example of how you want to divide Ukraine. When they created a confederation of western areas of Ukraine. That's what you started. And today, by unthinking politics, you are pushing the peoples of Ukraine to define your position in terms of territory and authority. It is a terrible policy that you impose, it will be a criminal policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u21	Yes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been exchanging thoughts, and here we've been making proposals to stop the pressure on the Supreme Council, the Supreme Court, I'm asking those of you on whom it depends to be able to work peacefully both in the Supreme Council and in the Supreme Court. As far as the food is concerned, I ask them all to pass on the fruit and vegetables. to submit them to the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stanislaw Nikolaynko suggests that we continue the discussion, if the Supreme Council decides -- we will discuss it, but Alexander Alexander Moroz suggested that we proceed immediately to the decision after the factions, but if there is another proposal, we will make a decision -- we will work. So it's... it's... Ladies and gentlemen of the people, let's have a word with you. They are now calling for a recess, but we are in the process of considering the matter, so we will take a break in relation to what will be the situation. We've already begun our consideration of the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u22	The speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u23	Dear, distinguished national MPs, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished compatriots -- participants in the mass actions that are taking place in Kiev today, and in the cities of Ukraine, I think we can say today that the time for language distribution has ended, it's actually exhausted, we've obviously got to take some appropriate action that corresponds to the complexity of the situation that we're in. I think we have every reason to say that we got the worst result in the election process that could have been won, political and moral psychology. And I mean both the international response and the economic, I thank you for the addition. I think this result is a concentrated personification, a concentrated expression, and a legitimate result of the state policy that has been implemented in recent years. We've got an open society now, we've got a demoralized country, we've got a moral breakdown and an emotional surge. And at the same time, we have an inconsequential observation of what is happening in Ukraine by those who should make decisions, including by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's been an internationalization of the conflict. Involved in our inner divisions, as it is not ashamed to speak today, the world involved. I mean, dear colleagues, Georgia. Ukraine is not Georgia! And Ukraine has every reason to take seriously, respected colleagues, all the counsel. But we have to decide, we have to decide, and today we're showing that we can't solve our internal problems and we need help from the outside, because we can't, we can't compromise, we can't sit at the negotiating table. We put our personal ambitions ahead of the country's interests, even if not by chance, we are talking about Ukraine, covering Ukraine as a shield to carry out our narrowly grouped, political and other interests. Today we have an international scandal. Ukraine in which she is humiliated. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on my way. I do. I'm talking to you, Ukraine, where I'm humiliated. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't want to listen, I want to tell you. I want to tell the great contemporary actor Paul Silent -- if you're demonstrating right now in front of me, to the position that I want to be over the conflict, if you're demonstrating your ignorance, I can just then close the session, choose the Supreme Council Head and work with him. I say again, I don't need pig's help! I can say it again! I want to say again, I'm over the fight, I want the country's interests preserved. I'm not interested in the leader, I'm interested in Ukraine and I'm hurt by Ukraine! I want to say again, Ukraine is humiliated! A set of actions on all sides has humiliated Ukraine! Dear national deputies, and in such actions, honourable national MPs, let's do this, or we will hear each other, or let's turn the Supreme Council into a rally, or let's dissolve the Supreme Council! And at the same time, honourable national MPs, we underestimated our own people, we, I speak of all politicians in general, we have not taken the people into account, because we are not interested in the people. We thought that the people would always accept that position as declared above. We've been following a common pattern and we're still working. Ukraine today screams indignation and pain. Today it's not the question of who to be president, today it's the question of whether to be Ukraine as a state, today it's the question of whether to be whole on a territorial scale. Artificially, targeted blackmail takes place primarily on the side and on the initiative of local executives on top row. By imposing separatist decisions. I don't want to share the East or the West today, and I don't want to identify myself with the same Ukrainian hero who, in his speech, who distributed all the screens, claimed that Ukraine was East, East and East. What about the Center? What to do in the South? What to do in the West? What should be done to the representatives of Žitomirščina, Chernigovishtina, Sumstina, and other areas? I, my dear colleagues, want to say that today this opposition is being provoked, and it doesn't get cut off, on the contrary, it's being distributed on all the control channels. Therefore, today we need to think about responsibility. Both from the East and the West! It's the same! I want to warn these leaders again, on your behalf, on behalf of and on behalf of the Supreme Council, I think I have the right to do so. You manage regions as your fathers, but there's a limit that you can't cross, provoke separatism is a crime. He'll have to be held accountable. We will have to answer, if not today, tomorrow, including before the courts of history. If some think that history will be written after a politician leaves the scene, when he does not care, history is written today and the place is written for everyone, page, line is written for everyone. There will be no Lebaneseization or Africanization of Ukraine! I must say this as the Head of the Supreme Council, the highest representative body of the people. That says, I'm sure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't think it's necessary today to push unthought-out action against the opposition and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not succeed, the Supreme Council will make balanced, objective, fundamentally necessary political decisions. Because today is the time for political decisions. It's not the country, it's the people! Clearly, bets are very high and people’s thoughts are not calculated. And it's not coming, too bad today. But you'll have to take them into account. It's better to do it now. And you don't have to follow the instructions, I want to emphasize that you can let go for a moment. What's happening today is cartoons. And why are they bragging about what they're doing? Decisions are made, at the same time written that we stand for unity in the country, for implementation of the Constitution and write, to stop the enumeration centrally into the budget. We need to restore the status quo immediately, and the Supreme Council must demand that the status quo be restored throughout Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Calm down! Calm down, please. Calm down. Political crisis. Dear National Deputies! Now I'm going to talk about the Cabinet of Ministers, the blockage at the end, give me a chance. Ivan Alexandrovich, don't jump in the hall. All of it. The political crisis, respected national MPs, reached its peak. I think that's a statement that we need to make and that we need to say. Today, the tops can no longer affect the situation, the bottoms cannot yet be affected. Then, there's a radicalization of society, of social life, we actually have a revolutionary situation today. The reality, more than ever, is the action of the last argument -- bringing people into conflict, and that is the reality, and it is the Supreme Council that has to stop it by making the right decision, by making the appropriate reference, a proper warning to those individuals, to those branches of power, about those branches of government that are responsible for it. Now, more than ever, the Supreme Council must demonstrate its reasonableness and responsibility, its own position, its actions should, simply, be obliged to bring the processes back to legal order, the legal site, the legal outcome through political decisions and only through political decisions. We can still do this today, tomorrow, I think it'll be too late, and then the Supreme Council won't need that position. You should. I, my dear fellows, will tell you directly, I apologize for your candor, for your abandonment of pharisaism, and for your service. This does not apply far to everyone, but to the general atmosphere. I don't take those who take the same position all the time. It's fair and honest to say the reasons that have led to the destruction of society, which is the lack of transparency of decisions and actions, the irresponsibility of those who have to be responsible for decisions and actions, but who have adhered to the "Victors don't judge." The government broke up with the people, the politics of morality. We, the Supreme Council, are responsible for all that is happening in the country. Because at the right time, we must be open to the principle, at least, to ask questions and to make decisions. We, the Supreme Council, are responsible for the Presidential Elections Act we passed. We, the Supreme Council, are responsible for the composition of the CLTC, and then for its actions, although we did not foresee any significant influence on the CLTC in the Presidential Election Act of Ukraine. What's more, we've been helped by a group of national MPs who, at the direction of the Banking Court, have initiated appeals to the Constitutional Court -- you see, they've decided all the questions, and now they've had to destroy the Supreme Council's influence over the electoral process. And the Constitutional Court has taken a decision that actually makes it impossible to exercise parliamentary control of the CTC without the consent of the CEC. Because without the consent of the CTC, the representatives of the CTC, as recorded in the Constitutional Court’s decision, may not come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are responsible for the composition of the Central Electoral Commission that we have formed, not all, but in part. Because we made deals and made decisions in the interests of MPs and factions. It is good that these interests coincided with the candidate who has the proper preparations, read and well owned the Presidential Elections Act, which can interpret in places the position of the Central Electoral Commission, which can convince and prove that it is legitimate and logical, and politically, and above all, that the law requires action in one way or another. And we wouldn't have the problems we have today with the local election boards. I think it's not once we've made up our minds. We made that decision on the National Council, on a commission. First of all, we put our interests in faction, and then we think about the country in the remainder. And I think these results are turning to us today. It's unpleasant to listen. I understand there will be indignation. I can see they're getting ready for this indignation. But it's a fact that we can't move away from. The CEC has already discredited itself by the process of counting the votes after the first round. [[Applause]] I have to say that the results of the first round, by summarizing the CBC, have undermined public confidence in itself as to the institution of any decision it will make further. The Supreme Council of Ukraine spoke. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was silent! If we were to take a stand on principle, we wouldn't have what we have today in the second round. First of all, I take that to myself. C.V.C.R.A., pay attention! - The C.V.C.A. of regular legality in the form of a decision 24. 11 covered the entire electoral process and contrasted the street with its decision, changing the ratio and placement of forces. I'm talking about it politically. [[Today, we're talking. You can only talk on a political scale]] I don't give an evaluation of the legal activity of CEVC so that they don't complicate themselves by making a statement of indignation about my words. This will be done by others for the C.V.C.C.C. and will be published through appropriate channels. It's a political evaluation. Dear National Deputies! Even in the most dramatic situations, there is always a way out. We are still in a situation where the situation is not the most dramatic and therefore we have the opportunity to make decisions, to make decisions and to make decisions in the interests of the country. I think it's not going to like either one side or the other. And that's understandable, and it's only natural. But we have to make a decision in the interests of the country, I stress that. Perhaps by sacrificing the interests of the participants in the pre-election marathon. Most real of them, it's like me. The most real and possible political solution, not a legal one that has no legal basis for today's legal basis, is taking into account the mutual accusations of mass violations, and these mutual accusations sound and each party says, yes, they were on one side of the violation and on the other, and they say that this mass nature has. Then, logically, the question of the need for political recognition of elections that did not take place because of the inability to establish the real will of people is a political assessment. Dear National Deputies! I don't like it, so let's say again what you want. But I'm saying what the situation is, for God's sake, calm down. Under this political decision, a legal basis could be put in place and acted. Of course, it doesn't work for both sides and they have a reason, I'm talking about it. So if you have any other options, let me just give you a little bit of a hint here. First option. Leave it as it is. Anatoly Sergiyovich, you're exhausted, you're not on the street, go out there and yell if you're tired. Dear National Deputies! Leave it as it is. It will have a legal basis, a legal basis, taking into account the legislative framework that we have written ourselves. And that's reality. And to live with hope, with hopes that things would suck up, that they never did, that they never did. There's one negative point here: how do you calm people down? [[How do we use the term "take them out of the street"]] . You can count on them to get tired and walk away, you can. However, honorable national MPs, trauma, deep trauma, moral trauma, social shocks will not heal. One second. It's a problem of international isolation, political and economic, and let's talk about it. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking about options, let's look at them. Option two. The winner publicly states that he cannot but take into account that he cannot fail to take into account the will of the people who have voted for almost half of the other candidate, he cannot fail to take into account the political realities that have occurred, the threat of dissension, the threat of misunderstanding, because in such a situation it will be virtually impossible to run the country. He's proposing to lead the government and form a government to his own judgment, by coming in, well, I'm saying, well, what are you, well, I'll tell you what else are real, unrealistic, you're going to choose which are real, you're going to form the government for your own judgment. Perhaps with the right to appoint local leaders, parts of local leaders, as agreed. To do that, we have to agree on this option and find a common language with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because I think in the current situation without such a conversation, it's serious, without the formation of a faction, but a coalition government, with the position of factions that we can't afford. The next suboption: political reform is under way, the Prime Minister gets additional weights, assumes a large part of the presidency, and this position is offered again to the same party as defined. She's hot. Then the Supreme Council arranges and decides to approve such a Prime Minister. Another option is, you're going to like it now, the other one is the subvariant again: we're taking political reform, the acting Prime Minister stays in that position and is declared the winner of Victor Yushchenko. Tell me, distinguished national MPs, what is the legal basis for making this decision? Then today you have to press on the Supreme Court, that it is either political pressure, or, honourable nationals, or it is accepted by itself, then you have to wait, more precisely, I take my word off as wrong, because we have the distribution of branches of power, the independence of branches of power, then you have to wait and I want to take it to the Supreme Court judge as pressure. Then we must wait for what decision to be taken by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. If he cancels 900,000 votes, and the Supreme Court can't cancel the election, because it's not stipulated by law, he can cancel the elections in the districts, in the districts, and so on, then a new winner is declared. Once again, this does not appease society. It's a reality. Let's say it's real. There's the next option, distinguished national MPs. It is the recognition of elections in such a way that they did not occur in connection with the inability to establish or the actual will of the people. But it's a political decision again that doesn't have a legal basis. After such a political decision, the Supreme Council should seek agreement with the candidates, with society, and adopt changes to Ukraine’s law. There's another option that also needs to be changed to the law that regulates, I understand, "Our Ukraine," the re-voting. This is also an option, but this option requires once again the political decision and the refusal of Viktor Yanukovic to claim office. That's a fact. Otherwise, as we have today, we have three presidents in Ukraine. We knew the two powers. But the three presidents of Ukraine won't pass. So, honourable national MPs, I urge once again that our emotions be suppressed and that we talk about these options. There's another hypothetical option, but it's unacceptable, because it's very difficult to put a legal base under it, because it needs to be changed to the Constitution. To vote for political reform, to adopt a constitutional agreement and to choose a President here in Parliament under this constitutional agreement. The people authorized us to choose him in Parliament. But I understand that this is unacceptable. Anatoly Sergiyovich. But there are hypothetical options that I'm talking about today. And maybe we can propose to vote for the two candidates who went to the final today, and we can't establish the political truth in any way. Prospective tasks, distinguished national MPs, which we need to deal with. We need to decide today on the question. I think it's impossible to give more than political evaluations. If they did not listen, read the transcript. So, honourable national MPs, today some of these options are set out in the draft decree. The draft decree was prepared for the factions and national deputies who did so on the day before 24 p.m. yesterday. This project contains alternative positions. Therefore, it is proposed that after discussion, there may be other options, that each specific paragraph should be voted on with all options, and that the points that will be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be defined as a Supreme Council ruling. It may consist of one item, perhaps two or perhaps all of the points proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, honourable national deputies, I would like to remind myself of the logic and laws of the struggle for power. There is no need for either side to try to grasp the truth completely and to hold the monopoly to the truth. Nor should we propose solutions that provided for the solution of all problems in a radical way. There are laws to fight for power. The authorities need to be part of it, and when the control package is in place, they can be declared whole. But if you don't have this whole package, you can't take the pieces, then you can declare yourself an authority. But this will be difficult to accomplish. I come from the fact that we can't fail to give political evaluations, I've offered them, these political evaluations, and we can't help but express our views on what's going on in Ukraine. We have to accept this consciously, responsibly, without any pressure, just by leaving the will of every national MP. I emphasize, every national MP, no fortifications in the Parliamentary Hall, no, no, I'm sure of it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! We agreed with you on the following regulations for factions and groups. So please apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u25	Three minutes out of the procedure, please sign up for the factions. Yes! Replica, please, Silence. Replica, please. Quiet. I mentioned the name of the man. The replica. And John the Rabbit of Replica, yes, I mentioned the Rabbit. I'm nobody else, and I'm Matthew. Yeah, it's a line. Oh, then three minutes. Please, a replica, a silencer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I am very grateful for the appreciation of my character. After listening to everything you have wrapped in such a cloud of beauty, gold, and even gold. I didn't hear the most important, your own position. We can't be over the fight. Your reflections and assessments I share in many moments, except one, you cannot be above a nation that today requires one to be just. Here they stand under walls and in all cities demanding one's right. It's the right of the people. And you know very well how a person who studied the Constitution and had a relationship with the constitutional process. Please take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u27	Yes. Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u28	Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u29	They're replicas! Replicas!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u30	When they said that the Hare don't jump in the hall. So don't go down to that level. And with regard to your position and the outcome of this situation, the Supreme Council has actually come to such a conclusion that the best is what happened. So what I want to say to you is that what happened is the usurpation of power because of the fake election. And never will the people of Ukraine accept that. And that's what you need to count on today. So the starting point is that the election was unfair, that the election was free, that the election was non-false. That's why people went out on the street today that they didn't accept Kravczuk's statements, or President Kuchma's statements, or other people there about the Separatism of Ukraine, or Kushnarov. No others. First, in the resignation of Kushnarov, like him, open a criminal case, otherwise there will be a national court. You have to understand where you're pushing people today. It's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u31	Yes. Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u32	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I apologize for being uncontrollable. But I want to ask you the first part, really, politically we support you, we solidarity. But, if you'll excuse me, you can't go to the Supreme Council's rostrum today. We are today, and as your head, you have to make it clear that you are a party to the negotiating process that the elections on the second round of the 21st number have been falsified and we have to cancel them, that we have to vote on the second round, that we have to vote on the second round, that we have to send the CTC to resign, the government -- to resign, the Attorney General's Office -- to resign, that we haven't secured order in the country, the Ministry Minister -- to resign, that is, that today's people are being harassed. And you know it. Instead, you start playing with one another and with the other. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is no shortage, you must take the position of the people and defend the interests of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u33	Dear people's deputies, the lines are out, I want to answer again. May I have your attention, please? I'd like to return my reply to the people's deputies. I think everyone wants to hear something of their own. I made it clear, and once again, I want to read that in a situation that was the most real way out of it, given the actual recognition by each party that was a mass breach, which is highlighted by observers and the number of statements that are on the one hand, the protocols and on the other, to admit, but politically we can make a decision now, the choices that have not taken place because of the inability to establish will. I suggested it, I said it. What other offer do you need? And I, Your Honor, would like to say, "Don't blame me on which side to stand." We must stand on the side of Ukraine, on the side of the people, on the side of objectivity. And we don't have to blame each other for that. Please, the Bespali procedure. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u34	Thank you. First. Boris Unspalli Block Victor Yushchenka. First, the decision must be voted on at the end and in general, as paragraphs one to the other may not be acceptable. It's different. Elections are faked, not by Martians, but primarily by executive authorities. There will be a re-voting -- there will be no re-voting, the first thing we have to decide -- is that the government has to resign, which has led to this situation. And according to the introduction of the new government, the governors who led up to this situation. Because re-voting with this government is going to be the same banditry again. But then you want to get people out of the street. You're not gonna make it! If there is no re-voting, the continuation of every day of a Bilocon criminal in power is banditry! I mean, it led to a situation of government. And before anything goes wrong, this government and the established government of national trust must go on the basis of opposition forces with portfolios for other forces. Only on this basis can the situation that is real in Ukraine really be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u35	Yes, Turmanov, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u36	I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of the infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u37	Vladimir Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have listened carefully to your speech. Our faction has also met today and has its thoughts and approaches to resolving the conflict issue. But we would ask one of the parties that today exerts pressure on MPs, bringing under the walls of MPs a multiplicity of people in order to exert pressure. They don't let you into the Supreme Council or anything like that. So that this is taken off, so that we're in equal conditions, so that we don't have to go the way that we're being blamed for the election. The election was falsified, there was pressure and so forth. So let's say that the side that talks about democracy and equality behaves tolerantly today and removes the pressure from the national MPs. We have submitted a note, and if we do not make our decisions, we will announce and ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u39	Yes, please, Olga Hinzburg is referring the right to the word of Peter Simonck, please. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u40	Simonenko is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. In making decisions, I think we should assume that the forging of elections took place both in the first round and in the second round. [[And here's the main one was falsification.]] It's different. We need to get out of the way to get our hands on thieves and fraudsters in general, and to understand what this forgery has been done, starting with business commissions, depending on what political forces have influenced through formation, through instructions to regional commissions throughout Ukraine have influenced the falsification of elections. So it seems to me that the forging of the elections, first of all, took place at the level of district and district commissions, which unfortunately took place throughout Ukraine, both in the West and in the East. Because in one area, some political forces influence administrative resources, in another territory other political powers. So I think we should look at it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u41	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts about the procedure. Now let's move on to the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions. Before the speeches, I want to make one announcement, distinguished national MPs. I was asked by the National Deputy of Masters to announce his withdrawal from the Ukraine faction. In accordance with the Rules, I do. Let's move on to the performances. He's invited to the Bartocks' performance. Basil Bartkov, Deputy Group Center. Prepare Ioff from "Trouble Ukraine." Basil Bartkov, please. Do you have any Bartocks? Here comes our fellow Bartocks. Get ready, Jooff. Please. In five minutes, we'll have you perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Respectable compatriots! Ukrainians and non - Ukrainians! All those gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council on the grounds and squares of our state! All those who have received the most honorable status in the world today — the status of the citizen! I'd like you to be instructed by the members of the Centrum Group to publish the statement of the deputy group "Centre." The Central Election Commission, as a result of its criminal order, has become an organizational tool for the total falsification of the election results that have caused a severe political crisis in the state. The course of events in Ukraine shows that the situation is becoming more and more intense in passion and threatens to take uncontrollable forms. Can we falsify the election results, can we fix it?? The law can even be repealed. However, an objective social development law cannot be repealed. The government lives according to its known law alone, disregarding this law for the development of society. As a result of the National Deputies, members of the "Centre" MPs demand that the Central Electoral Commission's decision on the results of the second round of presidential elections be lifted. The other one. Express distrust of the CTC and resign, express distrust of the Attorney General in connection with the criminal activity of the Attorney General’s Office. To re-elect the Central Election Commission and to assign a new composition to the Central Electoral Commission without delay to deal with the situation that has taken place in the most troubled areas with all the complaints of the parties and to make all the informed decisions. In view of the wide range of ambiguous decisions of the Constitutional Court, I ask you, Your Honor, Volodymmere Mihajlovich, to give the parliamentary committee a proper commission to review and prepare documents on the response of that third of the judges of the Constitutional Court who in fact removed the Supreme Council from the electoral proceedings. And to the finish yesterday, Ukraine was deeply concerned and indignant about another attempt by the authorities to blackmail the Ukrainian people, which turned out to be an illegal decision by the head of the Kharkiv District Authority, who actually usurped power in the area and created autonomy, and I'm not even literally quoting autonomy as saying, "Kharkov will live by his laws!" Mr. Kushnarov, please consult with the lawyers, or perhaps even a doctor, and do not develop a passion. Ukraine is the only one, and it will be forever!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u43	Julius Yooffe is invited to speak from the Hard Ukraine faction to prepare for Vladimir Pehoti. Please, Vladimir, Julius Yooffe, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u44	Calm down, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, you know what's going on right now I totally agree, well, calm down, calm down, calm down. Right now, Vladimir Mikhailovich has tried to give a photograph of the events, and I don't think it's necessary to set them on fire or on any side. I want to start from the end to appease my esteemed colleague Paul Silent. I want to start over. Labour Ukraine agrees to support the ruling on one condition: we today vote on political reform, put it into effect immediately and then agree on all kinds of regulations. This is please, and I think it's a way out of the way if we're Democrats, if we want to, say that one king is good, another king is bad, then let's, in the end, remove the king's position in our country and be a parliamentary normal republic like this everywhere. I am firmly opposed to what is happening today in eastern Ukraine. I voted in public, with Paul in this language, in the first assembly, for State sovereignty, for the declaration and so on. And I'm standing in these positions, I'm not changing them, but let's look at the root of who started the policy of legal negilism, so let's see, we don't have to. I said it was a very dangerous example we're giving, just a minute. And to block, you say, here's my esteemed colleague Ivan Zajac yelling that it's not separatism, I'm against him like you are. However, two State bodies had been blocked. Isn't that a public crime? That's even worse. It's a blockade on the State. Equally, it must be assessed that this is the same crime and the blocking of the Cabinet of Ministers, and separatism is at the same level. [[Read about it in a criminal search.]] So I'm categorically, I say again, I'm categorically opposed to any separatism, but once again, I don't need to be provoked because I want to or don't want to, I know very well in eastern Ukraine, I know my constituency, I don't know what was in other districts, in Lviv and in other Donbass districts, I know that in my district where 84 percent did not come from forgeries, I can relate. Because I've spoken to every observer for Victor Yushchenk. One more minute, I repeat, exit alone, if you are shouting that you are Democrats, that you want the good news to the people of Ukraine, then don't pull the rope now, let's cut it, because I know the real moods in eastern Ukraine. They're the same. You play in some moods, you take out students, you play in other moods, and that's reality. Both. Both, and another crime, I stress that. And the fact that you're pulling these guys out, I remember the 1989 strike when, with the help of KGB Gorbachev, he wasn't going to break the Soviet Union, he was going to change the economic order, the nomenclature with the help of miners broke the case. They were burning the miners' eyes, thinking that when they found them in the fridge at the first secretary of the bitter, two sticks of sausage that he had taken from the blackway, they were revolutionizing. What did the miners get? That's what we know. The same goes for the students, the rest of them, and the east. And I'll tell you this: both the one and the other are dealing with crime, and the one that's blocking the building today, and the one that's calling for separatism. But who provoked those who blocked it? They provoked this is legal nihilism. And the last. We really need to cut the rope. The revolutions are designed by dreamers, romanticists, and the results of the revolution are used by scoundrels. That's what we know. That's what's gonna happen this time. It was in 1989 and it was. Shut up, I didn't kick your ass. And the last. We are implementing constitutional reform, we are holding, we are voting for the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u45	Julius Yakovitch, what did you call Paul Mikhailovich's last name? No, it's not. He said he respected you, he said. A little later. Please, silence, a line, please. Ladies and gentlemen, don't call each other's national deputies. You've seen -- I called it -- and it almost hit me, so I'm not going to call it that anymore. I apologize to John Zaze for mistreating him. Please, Be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u46	Paul Mokchan, "Our Ukraine" faction, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I appeal to you because when you think of concepts that are incompatible today, like the notion of democracy and those procedures, and those processes that took place in eastern Ukraine, especially in the area that my good friend referred to, they're just incompatible things. Next. To talk about "crowding, cutting rope" is today to call for what started with Harkov, which began with those councils. And then we need to talk about those unconstitutional reforms, and we need to talk about accountability to the law. And I'd like to think about my colleague who just spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u47	School, line. Now there's another line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u48	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I wanted to point out that the previous speaker from the rostrum had already lied enough by speaking on the "UT-1" channel, where he called my last name, and he appeared to have listened to the conversation, I don't know how he listened to it or where, because. I don't know if there were any brothers, he was going to take some warehouses, maybe he got confused. So once again, I want to state that the statement from the rostrum was a lie from the beginning to the end. They're used to lying to you, folks, they're lying to you right now and they're constantly trying to follow the saying that the winners aren't being judged. But I want to remind you that the next extension of this saying was. Woe to the vanquished! So don't play with rocks in a glass house, don't play with ideas you don't understand, and don't let politicians in the microphone who don't understand what country they live in, what nation they're dealing with, and that they're finally trying to reach in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u49	Volodymyr Jakovic Infanta from the Ukrainian MP's faction is invited to the presentation. Prepare Alexander the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Obviously, the main purpose of today's session is to get Ukraine out of the crisis, and the second, to make sure that the election of the President of Ukraine is not every time the event that causes the turmoil in Ukraine. If this practice is introduced in Ukraine as a rule that power is taken by force and street, then Ukraine cannot exist as a state. Regrettably, the 2004 election of the President of Ukraine is the most dirty in our nation’s new history. The constant oppression of passion during the election campaign has exacerbated the situation in society. This threatens not only the peace of our citizens but also the stable economic and social development of our nation. No one today mentions either the pensioners or the teachers or the other categories, nor sees how they will be paid their salary, pension, or benefit. We consider one thing: Who will take over power in Ukraine? When you want to say a lot, it is better not to say a word, but to act. So our faction, in order to overcome the existing acute confrontation, calls upon all national MPs, regardless of the political sentiments of today's meeting of the Extraordinary Supreme Council, to refrain from confrontation, harsh statements, mutual accusations. Parliament itself should play a leading positive role in settling the conflict around the conclusion of the second round of elections. Today, there are negotiations between the two sides. Today, he deals with all the complaints and claims made by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Council is sitting today. But we need to make sure there's no pressure from the side of the Supreme Council, no pressure from the side of the street to the judges, to the Central Election Commission, to the MPs. We need to learn to listen to each other, respect each other, and then maybe we can get out of this crisis. The "Ukrainen Region" faction reminds us of the invariance of our position in the question of the completion of political reform. The introduction of amendments to the Constitution should have been a meticulous issue of agreement between the parties to the second round of the elections of the President of Ukraine. And we went at it, and we tried to make everyone make that decision. Reforming the relevant provisions of the basic law, the amendment of the Presidential Elections Act, the Central Electoral Commission and others should thus influence us to have consensus today in the hall, and tomorrow in our company. I understand that we are all public actors, and we must express the opinion of certain categories and parties. But I urge that we remember that Ukraine is under threat today. If power is captured on one side, and on the other side the decision is made not to send funds to the State Budget and so forth, we are already on the verge. Let's stop at this point, think about it, and make a balanced decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u51	Thank you. Please. Yes, Alexander Frost. Head of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander the Turkinov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that everyone already has a choice and no one else is interested. So I would ask, let's listen to each other, because one faction is not going to make any decisions. We still need to find some compromise. You know what is now going on between the constituencies of the electoral campaign. There are representatives of Yushchenka, there are representatives of Yanukovic. And I think it's easy for them to make deals. Why? Because there are eight members of parliament. This is exactly what they all did together in a constitutional coup in 2000. In this way they have something to agree on, and they will easily resolve all these questions. Let's trust them. But in order not to burden them too much, it is necessary to make the right political decision here in the Supreme Council today. Because they can't make a deal. Today, their interests differ. And we can decide. That's because it's about making a political decision, because all the fraud that's been going on around the President's election doesn't require any legal basis and evaluation, except for the evaluation of the Criminal Code. I'm not going to give examples of how this was done. You've got a ton of evidence. We have every reason to say that the authorities forged the elections deliberately, deliberately, purposefully. Just one example. Here we took 105 and 108 districts in the Lugansk region after the election results were published. According to the wet protocols that the C.V.C.C.A. did match, we have to say, but it's strange. When you count on real protocols it turns out to be 2 percent and a half of a successful candidate less votes than what the CBC wrote. What else is there to talk about?? It's not arithmetic, it's a criminal crime, you just have to say it. Then. We see evil from power. She says, "You obey the law and the Constitution, you do as the law says. " And all the time, when you go to a discussion, on television, that's how the whole Constitution is read to you and shown you how wrong it is to do, but they don't talk about what they are then contrary to the Constitution, they're sorry to spit on the Constitution, the law, but to keep opponents bound by that law. Well, you can't be in unequal conditions, it's fraud. That's why a policy proposal like this needs a political solution. [[That's why!]] It's straight, it's straight. And to stop having to comedy with a court decision and everything else is a dependent decision. We have to take the risk and say we need to re-vote the results of the second round. However, both candidates are ready for it. And one more thing. There's a concrete draft of the decree. I think it should be based on a lot of things that make sense. But we certainly should today, I emphasize! - must be recognized by the Supreme Council's ruling, which is the norm of Ukrainian legislation, the recognition of elections as falsified, the results of elections invalid; the purpose of voting on December 12 or 19, the statement of mistrust by the CWC; the request of the President for the release and appointment of a new composition of the CWC immediately; the establishment of a temporary order for the continuous work of Parliament in plenary until the end of the President's election, a meeting. [[This should be done by Tuesday]] What am I trying to say? Yesterday I held a round table of 15 political parties that don't fit in any blocks. They, by the way, offered even more radical proposals, including the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. It seems to me that in this regard we need to listen to the thinking of these political parties. And finally, today, we have to make a strong assessment about attempts to separatize Ukraine. It's an abnormal phenomenon. We're not talking about who's first, who's second. We are to blame for allowing this, but there are specific officials who before the Constitution must be subject to the law for their actions, and then everything will become clear. Once again, we must make decisions today. And you don't have to drag them away for later. We don't have to wait for the rulings of the Supreme Court, we're going to relieve him of that burden. Let us free ourselves from the pressure of the Central Electoral Commission and make the decision that Julius Jooffe spoke about, decide on a date for consideration of the issue of political reform that must be taken before the President’s election. This is already an understandable street, and it has been understood everywhere, and I think, regret those who have so much charmed me and those who have sided with this reform, realizing that it is the key to solving the problem in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u53	Yes, Alexander Turchinov, from Julia Timoshenko's block, prepare Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u54	Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! Ukraine was unable to put the criminal’s call on its knees. Ukraine is now kneeling and feeling free, independent. Today, millions of our citizens have come out to defend their right to be Ukrainians, to be citizens of our nation. I want to turn to those who want to be out of conflict or who speak blasphemously against each other. It's not about Yashchenka, it's not about Yanukovich, it's about the right of the people of Ukraine to take power. Dear colleagues! Today, negotiations have begun, and I am very skeptical about the perspective of this action, and the opposition has entered into negotiations to demonstrate its respect for democratic states and democratic principles. The government entered into negotiations only to extend its existence. That is why I turn to the deputies and to those who participate in the negotiation process. The faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, thinks that if today's decision is not made, any negotiation, any work in this direction of the Supreme Council is simply meaningless. Such negotiations will simply delay the time when the authorities, who still feel they should leave! I want to speak separately about the processes that are taking place in some eastern and southern regions of our country today, the authorities who feel that they are going to have to take responsibility for their crimes very soon want to hide themselves from this responsibility abroad, want to take responsibility by swearing to another state. We warn you that the members of the district councils of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kharkiv, Crimea, we warn the heads of administration: treason to Ukraine is a terrible crime both before the god and the people, and for this crime you will be responsible in accordance with the laws, in accordance with the Constitution, we have made an appropriate decision that forces today's Supreme Council to abolish the illegal decisions that require President Kuchma to release those who have gone on treason to Ukraine today. But we can talk about how things happen in these regions, that it's an adjusted activity, and it's being conducted from the center, it's being conducted by Kuchma and Yanukovich. And that's why they're going to have to answer the same as those who started the separatist process. Dear colleagues, regarding our decision regarding the position of the Supreme Council after the crisis that took place in Ukraine, we believe that it is the first. What we have to accept is to resign the government, a government that does not control the situation in Ukraine, a government that has gone to treason in Ukraine. We consider it necessary to resign the entire force block of the Ministers together with the Government and the entire Attorney General's Office, and we demand that we resign by expressing the mistrust of the Central Electoral Commission and choosing a new uninvited, objective composition of the electoral commission, the Central Electoral Commission. I am convinced, dear friends, respected colleagues, that if the independent objective composition of the Central Electoral Commission checks the results of the elections, he admits that Victor Yushchenko won the victory. And then we don't need any reelections. Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council still has an opportunity to make a decision. Tomorrow this decision will be made by the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u55	The word is Michaelo Gladys, a faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, followed by Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u56	Dear Ukrainian people, dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear friends! The further we move away from November 21, the deeper the gap or the higher the wall that divides people and power becomes. Even the positive thing that we have acquired in years of independence in political, economic and social life today cannot outweigh the huge, legal and moral negative that has been acquired in 130 days of pre-election campaign and especially on election day itself. It seems that it was done with the hands of others on purpose. But the question is, Why was this done? In order to question our independence, our first democratic principles to humiliate our national self-sufficiency, our ability to have our own foreign policy, or to witness the world’s political shortsightedness, freeness of mind, or political blindness. These are the sad conclusions that are being drawn when you analyze the consequences of the social and political chaos that we have in Ukraine today as a result of illegal acts of power at the centre and in the polls of the President. Especially as a national MP, as a member of the PARJE not only indignant, but also humiliating, this feeling in most of my colleagues on the faction. Of course, the authorities did not expect such opposition to the nation, such a moral insight of society, to be healed. They thought that the angry human mass, if any, would direct its main anger against the CLTC. That's why they turned him into an impenetrable fortress. But it was clear to everyone after the first round that the Central Election Commission for the past ten years had never been an independent government body. As Kivalova’s head took office, she not only completely discredited herself but essentially created tension in society. Therefore, I believe that the Supreme Council should take the decision with all seriousness and responsibility. The position of our faction here is clear: First. Recognize elections as forgeries. The other one. It is necessary to express mistrust in today’s CLTC and to form a new composition of the Central Election Commission in the shortest terms. Third. To conduct the vote on December 19th. Four. Continue legislative work on political reform. And, dear friends, I think we're going to make the right decision today to entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania to declare a parliamentary decree before the participants of the Independence Square rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u57	The word is given to Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. He'll be followed by Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u58	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear citizens! The political crisis in Ukraine, caused by the distortion of the will of citizens and the violation of their constitutional rights, has intensified sharply. Without removing the causes of this crisis, there is no doubt that it cannot be solved. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, where there are deputies elected by Ukrainian citizens, some of whom are now in Kiev, in other cities of Ukraine, has a chance to take good steps in solving this crisis. What happened in Ukraine was clearly a gross disregard for the will of the citizens. And we don't have to call on any Ukrainian citizens. They have all come to the defense of their sacred right to take power. My colleagues, my deputies, you will find yourself in a beautiful family, families of people who speak different languages, who go to different churches, in this family are happy to meet the inhabitants of Donetsk and Lviv, Kharkiv and Odessa, Zaporozhye and Chernigov. Because these people want one, they want to live in a free, prosperous Ukraine. They want to live by law, not by concept. Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine" believes that crisis management needs the Supreme Council to answer three questions. First. A clear assessment of what happened. The other one. Making tools to get out of today’s situation. And the third. Eliminating the factors that led to today’s opposition. In this regard, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine" bloc considers the situation to be the most fundamental issue: (1) consider the announcement of the Central Electoral Commission the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine illegal; (2) the second re-election of the President of Ukraine on December 12th. Such a compromise, we're willing to go to it on condition that those who faked the elections and led to today's opposition in society will be removed. In this regard, we consider it necessary: 3) to recognize the actions of members of the Central Electoral Commission as illegal and to provide grounds for the immediate adoption of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to terminate the terms of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission and the appointment of a new composition of the CLTC; (4) to establish the following principle of the formation of a new composition of the CLTC, by 5 representatives from candidates for the post of President of Ukraine put to the ballot for the re-election of the President of Ukraine. And five representatives at the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Fifth, amending the Ukrainian Presidential Elections Act to prevent the falsification of voting results. Sixth, the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the formation of a temporary government for the period of the completion of the election of the President of Ukraine, subordinated to his Supreme Council of Ukraine, the resignation of the heads of district and district government, who had been involved in falsifying the results of the election of the President; Seventh, a statement of mistrust by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney-General and the subordination of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period of the completion of the election of the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this room has repeatedly demonstrated that we are able to compromise. I hope we can do it now. If we fail to do so, such a Supreme Council has no right to continue its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u59	Igor Shurma, a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, has a national deputy, and he will be followed by the Desert Tenko. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u60	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. The law, the law, the law, and again the law! The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is pointing out to all of you that our task right now is to find common ground and compromise. [[united]] Whether we want it or not, the responsibility for this political crisis rests with all of us, regardless of our faction. We've all passed a law on the election of the President of Ukraine with all its shortcomings, and we've all chosen the working composition of the Central Electoral Commission together. Today, we are obliged to compromise. We don't understand the language of ultimatums and the pressure on the side of the street. We understand and respect the position of those people who are now at the Supreme Council, but that's not an argument. Let's go to Donetsk, Lugansk or Sevastopol, and we'll find ourselves under quite a different kind of pressure. Threats such as “let’s not let go until you make favorable decisions” are political irresponsibility and are very dangerous in both Lviv and Donetsk. It is obvious to everyone that today’s events were being prepared in advance. Now they're looking for a defensive cap and they're finding some power in his person, well, power. We've heard statements from "Our Ukraine" for two years now. What I said, if our candidate doesn't win, it'll mean forging and causing massive disturbances. If the opposition had assigned the winner in advance, and the election procedure itself was considered to be a simple formality, the performances would have taken place in any case. Forgeries on both sides should be dealt with by the court, not by a rally. If we think we have no claim to your behavior, you're wrong. We're against wanting to hear another point of view and glamour the people who express that point of view. It is now clear that the people who voted for Yanukovitch want to defend their choice were doing so under pressure and threats, or even simply declaring themselves criminal. Repeat! There is little to hear about what is happening in Lviv and Kiev. We need to hear and see and feel what's going on in Lugansk, Kharkiv, Donetsk. So let's not be color color color color color color. Now, not wanting to hear another point of view has been very practical, has practically put our statehood beyond division. Because the last decision of a number of district councils in the East and in the West of Ukraine may be limited to non-definition, non-recognition of the functioning central authority of the laws of the Constitution. But this was not initiated in the East! And look what happens in Lviv. Look at them filming people who had their opposition. Today there is persecution and pressure. And I don't think you need those people who today under pressure support your opposition and claim, and will continue to live with their beliefs. Why would regions need such a way to defend their interests? Think about it. Our task is to make sure that the regions never have such a requirement, and in such an extreme way, to defend the interests of their citizens. One of the most important tools of understanding is understanding is adopting political reform, and this is number one problem. Unfortunately, the right opposition still excludes the possibility of democratisation of the political system, and we need to take it to the second round if it is possible and achieved. That's the point of view in the room. Today, I would like to emphasize another aspect. There's a result of the election and a documentary decision - Janukovic won. There's another thought that another candidate won, but there's no documentary confirmation. Ukraine needs a legitimate president of Ukraine who will enjoy the respect of all regions. But all decisions must be made on the basis of the laws in force and the Constitution. Today you can put changes and additions to the Presidential Elections Act, but do we want to? We want to cancel the resilient coupons. But would it not be by restoring the pen we voted against here? [[And you and us.]] We want to talk, secure the vote. Do not prohibit voting at home. But will we answer those people, or have we not deprived them of the constitutional right to choose? We suggest that we give careful consideration to all legal aspects of the matter and make an informed decision to please the parties. We demand an immediate one. Differences between all decisions in places that do not comply with the Constitution. Today we have a political crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u61	Thank you. The word is given by Valérie Emptyovetenko, the NDP faction, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. He'll be followed by Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u62	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The fact that there are now supporters of various presidential candidates in this Supreme Council Hall is evidence of general concern about the post-election situation. First of all, we have to admit that the political processes in Ukraine have come to a dead end. I'll tell you more. National security and civil peace in Ukraine are at stake. From the political struggle, we are rapidly approaching civil conflict because of political crisis. We also have to admit together that the reason for this is because of the unthinkable pre-election juggling of sharp and confrontational slogans, I've repeatedly called attention to both sides. Unfortunately, political gambling has put most of their participants on the path of fighting for power by any means. The transfer of this logic to the post-election period puts us not only within the limits of political but also legal nihilism, the crisis of statehood, the social divide. My conviction is that it is time to give up actions, exaggerated methods of political war, and the logic of the streets. I believe it is essential that all political actors confirm their willingness to act only on the basis of law and democratic procedures, on this basis alone, an important dialogue also calls for an end to the general discrediting of decisions of legitimate state authorities. In my opinion, the decision of the CEVC to win Viktor Yanukovich's adoption on the basis of the actual signed documents of all the districts is a starting point for a new political dialogue. As I agree that all the facts of the infringement must be investigated and a verdict rendered, but these questions will be taken in accordance with judicial procedures. We also need to understand every word we say as politicians, every step we take can have irreversible consequences, including the threats of secessionism that are now occurring in Ukraine, devastating social conflicts, undermining national security, destabilizing the work of executive organs in the center and in places. I ask the President of Ukraine to state the order of restoration of the work of local government administrations. I can, my dear friends, give an example of what I have just done at the Coordrada meeting, when Paul Lazarenko, who kept the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, the deputy district council, and after he was released from Dnipropetrovsk to create an executive committee, and the executive committees can only work within the limits of the powers represented by the district council and then no one has paid any attention to it. It should be made clear that the conditions of division of society, one’s one - person victory, are equivalent to national defeat. I assure you that Victor Janukovic understands this, he's ready to find mutually acceptable solutions to get out of the corner, it is imperative to renew the political dialogue, to create a broad political compromise. A dialogue and a political compromise that will satisfy all parties. These are the basic two principles on which I insist, we need to consolidate ourselves around the common goal, preserve national integrity, prevent social conflict from escalating and bring the political situation back to normal, so we need to re-establish political consultations on the development of a national reconciliation plan and take practical steps to stabilize the situation. The first thing that we have is that factions aren't all people's deputies and they have different thoughts, and I want to say that we're going to be guided by exactly what we think is absolutely necessary to cancel the elections as illegal, in my opinion and move on. And the first step in the implementation of the National Reconciliation Plan can be to put together a kind of pact of political stability, a draft of which has already been drafted by a group of political scientists as early as this summer, and can now be taken as a basis. At the same time, the Covenant can be both written and declared in the form of a political statement. The main thing right now is the political will to make a new post-election compromise that sets up all sides so that the idea of political stability, development, becomes a guide to action. Next, constitutional reform needs to be carried out; the NDP has always been a proponent of a broad discussion of constitutional
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u63	Yes, thank you, Valery Pavlovich. 30 seconds, finish the show, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u64	Okay, I think we need to start forming a national government, a government of national agreement today, and sign a political act of constitutional reform, and say, with regard to the review of the election summary, I want to say that we're going to vote differently by the faction. And I think we should vote in favour of the election and vote again in the short run with the same candidates who took part in the second round today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u65	We invite Vasil Nadrag, the Alliance MP, to prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u66	Vassili Nadrag, Union MP. Respectable colleagues, respectable people of Ukraine. We've been with you for a long time, almost 14 years, and we've come to the point where the abyss begins, because all the talk in this room about democracy today is that we don't hear each other. And that is the main problem, because the basic thesis, the basic characteristic of democracy, is the ability to respect one's opinion, to hear interlocutors and to be willing to engage in dialogue. We don't see it. We are hearing today that one or the other party, to some extent, under a sauce, withdrawing people from the streets, agrees only to what is consistent with its approaches, to its vision and, accordingly, to step by step, to add to its situation. I'm not saying in any way that people who don't share my point of view today are wrong. I mean, they're wrong when they think I'm wrong. And the people who have chosen me, and in this case the Lugansk, the area that is very often and very much remembered here, are also, as any Ukrainian citizen, entitled to their views and their views are bound to be considered. For if they are not counted, then excuse me, everyone has the right to do as he sees fit. Now literally two words, which is what we're going to do if we don't hear each other in a big way. There are several options. The first is that we're going to try to find a point of view that will satisfy everyone. If we create some complex solutions and do not go into the room to say that my opponent is not right, but to agree on a decision that will kill all the main points. Including the same constitutional reform. The same steps towards the recognition or non-recognition of elections and everything else. But in the complex, and not so, they say, "Let's call the election invalid." The next step is to abolish CFCs, the next step is to change CFCs, and then replace the Prime Minister, the President. I have a question. This is where Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenic read out the draft decree on what they proposed to do. I have the only question that I've asked this respectable man: "My dear, why do I have to choose if this decision is to take place? If you get it all?" So I have a question: if you think you have the right to do so, why do we, including myself, not have the right to get a piece of my living space in this State?Oh, my God! Why do you deny it to my countrymen?Oh, my God! Why did you, speaking of what's being done in Luhansk, start by declaring your independence to Lviv?Oh, my God! Why is the police already beginning to claim that the lions and their neighbours are not subject to central authority? So who's ruining this State?Oh, my God! And the last. We have an option where today the opposition will add force, I stress, by force its decision. What do we get? We will get simple and unthinkable -- we will build at least two States from that State. And it will be the responsibility of those who, in their desires and in their interests, have denied people the right to have a right, you are Democrats, yes, the Rabbit now accuses me of separatism, he is a Democrat, he has the right to give me his word, he deprives me of my words!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u67	I'm asking you to give me a chance to speak! I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u68	He deprives me of my right to be a free man! And so today I want to say only one thing: no one has the right to absolute truth! And when they tell me that I'm bad, that my countrymen didn't vote like that, then I want to say it again -- don't take away my right to be who I am! Don't take away my right to vote the way I want! And if you think that's possible, then I also have the right to do what I think is necessary with my countrymen. And when, I beg your pardon, without our coal, without our metal, with our high technology, in the end without our bread, you and your sugar beet and smurf live as you think is necessary! This is your right! My right is to remain human with my position and approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u69	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u70	And if we don't have this dialogue that I'm calling on you to do, we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! Please! I'm asking you to be more patient with each other, and we're going to find a search result. Pinzenic's name was mentioned. Replica, Pinzenic. Please do not appeal to the names of specific national MPs. Pinzenic replica. Microphone. Pinzenic, please. Well, please. Pinzenic. What? I can't hear you. Well, here, please. Because there's no microphone running from the turntable, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vassil Ivanovich! I would advise you to watch less "Ukraine" channel. Apparently, you hear rumors and provocations. I want to tell you that the Luganans are wonderful people, our brothers and sisters. They're not lucky enough because they have bad and local authority, and we're happy to meet the people of Lugansk, the inhabitants of Donetsk, Kharkiv, Odessa, and they're people who want the same thing. You were just distorting their will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u73	Last name. I didn't call. Bogdan Hubsky, faction of Ukraine. He didn't mention your last name. I remembered! Well, then there'll be a line after the show. Please. Well, one minute! They announced the speaker, then the line, then the Bandur will act. Don't mention the last name, please. Please, Bogdan Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to urge everyone to consider the seriousness of today’s situation. And the essence of the question is not only what will be the name of the next President of Ukraine, but also the fate of Ukraine. For hundreds of years, our famous ancestors fought for the unification of historic Ukrainian lands. Ukraine’s independence and composure were the goal of Ukrainian patriots at all times. Bogdan Hmelnicki, John Mazepa, Mikhailo Gruszewski, fought for our faith, language, and state. Their actions were aimed at achieving the noblest goal: the independence of the Fatherland and the prosperity of the nation. And today these very basic principles of statehood are at stake. Let's look into each other's eyes after the election. Serious accusations of democraticity in the electoral process, mutual accusations of falsification of the results of popular will. And these accusations have supported a Ukrainian society that has launched actions of civil disobedience. Extremely negative trends in areas where local and regional governments call for political decisions on autonomy. And we can't, and we have no right to observe it indifferently. First of all, we see today's unity in Ukraine on the basis of three components: independence, assembly and democracy. Here our position is absolutely clear: the national interests, the unity of Ukraine must be higher than any political ambition. This is a difficult and contributing moment for our nation, we propose to unify our efforts by all political forces and parties in order to preserve our main historical achievement — the gathering of the Ukrainian State and not to make use of the results of the elections to separate Ukraine. We need to unite around the Constitution, which defines the people as the only source of authority. One who does not see the will of the people makes a mistake in assessing the situation. In order to preserve Ukraine’s unity in order to avoid bloodshed and the drop of innocent blood, politicians are obliged to sit at the negotiating table. There is no alternative, no one can have a monopoly on the truth because Ukraine lives in the West, in the East, in the North, and in the South. Of course, we should thank the international mediators who came at this difficult time to hurt us for our fate, but we must deal with it on our own, and we will be able to do so. You have to take all the violations of existing legislation into account without prejudice and reach a compromise, acceptable option for both sides. The winner should be declared the one who won the transparent democratic elections without deceiving the Ukrainian people. There are two ways to solve this problem: legal and political. Legal: First of all, there is a need for a transparent and expeditious review of complaints before the Supreme Court of Ukraine without pressure. We believe that it is possible and necessary to run a census of all the regional electoral commission protocols and protocols. We may consider or wish to consider ourselves a legal state and that is why the existence of falsification must be determined solely by the judicial institution, the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And if we do, I'm talking about the legal effect, if we want to consider ourselves a rule of law, we're going to have to take any decision of the Supreme Court. It's different. It's very important today, and I think it's very important to state that if there are any violations that have significantly affected the outcome of the election, we're going to propose a legal solution until the re-elections are held. That's the legal aspect. Political decision is already our business with you politicians who will have a wrong and a political nature. First. Any force action must be unacceptable. The attempt at political pressure will lead to escalation. And we must guarantee the safety of the Ukrainian people with you. Next. Even now we can and should talk about the necessity of changing political power, changing the whole system of power, and so we can talk about the consideration of changes to the Constitution. Generally speaking, mutual accusations of counterfeiting, political tensions in society, legal nihilism make it necessary to consider, with the agreement of the candidates, a possible option: the abolition of elections; the adoption of political power reform; and new elections. Finally, I would like to remind you that these difficult trials can weaken, break or reverse the will of our people and make the state stronger, stronger. And in our common interest, do all we can to bring together the Ukrainian people. Our own Ukraine is the only one! That's all we've been given. Let us therefore, along with God’s help, come to unity, to national harmony. Otherwise, we will be cursed by our descendants. We have to be together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u75	Yes, thank you. The replica. John the Rabbit was mentioned by name, and then we will ask Alexander Markovich Bandurko. I think we can get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned that some Ukrainian national deputies continue their policy of zoning the people of Ukraine. Today they moved on. They put an ultimatum before us: either you accept the usurpation of power that took place because of the falsification of elections, or we will split Ukraine. So we're going to break the territorial integrity. I want these people's deputies, including the Prime Minister and the President and Kravczuk, who claimed this yesterday, to state that this is a state crime, and no one will be able to break up Ukraine today, that they will actually be in prison for it. And I demand that President Kushnarov be released immediately today, and you should know that the City Council of Kharkiv has just condemned the actions of Kushnarov and his administration in the division of Ukraine. I want you to know that we equally respect the choice of those who voted in Donetsk or in Lugansk or Galicín. But we don't recognize today the falsification of the elections that power has made -- this ruling regime. That's why I want to go to the loony bins and to the dummies. We're not going against you, we're going against the authority that faked the will that made you the same today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u77	Yes, Alexander Markovich Bandurka, from the Democratic Initiative Group, is invited to speak. Next is Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u78	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to calm down. Because if we want to be heard by all the Ukrainian people, we need to learn to really listen to each other. I would like to remind you of the old wisdom that history teaches by teaching those who do not want to learn. In 1918, Ukraine lost its independence just declared. Not because there was a threat to the East or the West, but because there was so much anger, disunity, that they overpowered themselves and the authority they created, because in the Ukrainian Parliament then the central council could not agree on anything. And Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Finland -- much smaller states -- have preserved their independence because they were united. Dear colleagues! The formation of new self-governance bodies, those processes that take place in the east began after they were already made in the West, because the central authorities are now paralyzed by the crowd, and life continues on the threshold of winter, the population needs to be provided with warmth, nutrition, health care, schools, schools, businesses should work, district councils and Luganske, Donetska, Dnipropetrovska and others who are preparing to make decisions that are adequate to the situation in the country, in the country. If we decide to restore the work of local government authorities and local self-government, it is necessary to do so throughout Ukraine from Lviv to Lugansk, and there is no need to intimidate district councils with threats to prisons, my friends, let us turn to you and so we went through it all, and the collective organs they can take only let us not push it. I can see that the way out of the crisis could be to stop fighting on the streets, both in Kiev and around Ukraine. People who came to Kiev to pay if they didn't pay and let go. Not from the East, not from the West to Kiev. The Supreme Council would need to accept or support the efforts of the Chief of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to secure the negotiating process, a draft decision adopted by the Conciliation Council as a whole. Putting it first would be the best way out of the political crisis. the adoption of political reform under draft Law No. 4180, with all the resulting consequences, the distribution of power and authority between all branches of government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u79	Okay. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u80	Dear radio listeners! Dear colleagues! Today’s social political crisis, provoked by criminal clan politics, is a major problem. They have led to a large-scale civil opposition that threatens to escalate into a force of conflict and a major federalization, which is the destruction of the integrity of our nation, but it is a war of the rich, people justly condemn power and it is a sincere desire for change for the better, today's political crisis would not have been possible, as if the Supreme Council had voted in favour of the political reform proposed by the communists. The Communists, protecting the Ukrainian people, will do everything possible to overcome the political crisis in a purely legal way, our principle position is not favourable to either candidate, we Communists are not going to play against any of the Ukrainian clans, we demand all political forces, we demand the Supreme Council to take the necessary constitutional measures to normalize the social political situation immediately, we express a strong protest against any foreign interference in the internal affairs of Ukraine and any provocative statements and assessments that they do not come out of. We condemn the oppression in society of mass psychosis, mutual accusations, and any powerful means of coping with today's political crisis, today's opposition can end with bloody clashes, federalization and even the territorial division of Ukraine. We are proposing that the political reform initiated by the communists and the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine should be carried out immediately, and that the Communist faction should defend the following requirements: that the 2004 presidential elections should be regarded as non-existent, and that we insist not on voting, but on re-election. The mechanical voting of the people will not do anything, for the district, district, district commissions need to be replaced, and appropriate legislative changes should be made. And then we'll also create conditions for us not to engage in double morals, because the basic falsification of elections took place in the first round of elections, and just re-voting is a recognition that you're not at all interested in forging a large-scale election that took place in the first round of elections, that's a double moral. We propose to create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate the facts of falsification throughout Ukraine, the full authority to transfer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend the exercise of its powers by the acting President. The Cabinet of Ministers is governed exclusively by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and the decisions of the Supreme Council. All the respectable colleagues and all those who listen to me today, the distinguished radio audiences and the participants in the rally, all of you today have come to appreciate the threat that the president's office poses to society -- the threat of the division of society, the bloodshed and civil war. Today, we now announce with a view to preserving the unity of the nation, we must urgently eliminate the presidency as the main cause of today's political crisis in the state. We Communists are convinced that only the real people, who are called upon by the Communists of Ukraine, are able to ensure that our Ukraine is transformed into a truly economically powerful democratic and social state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u81	Honorable national MPs, speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. We agreed with you on the Conciliation Council that since everything is said, each party has its own vision, has its own position, and has its own affection for the other points defined in the draft decrees. And we agreed that we would consider that draft decision that the Conciliation Council actually made. Then we have every reason to vote on each point. We will vote, and then we will see how we can proceed depending on what decisions are made or not taken. I'm inviting people's deputies. So we agreed that there would be no vote. I'm inviting you to. I'm asking the MPs to come into the session room, take their seats, prepare for the vote. I'm going to put each paragraph separately, including the options that were offered by those or other MPs and factions separately. Invite the national deputies to the session room before a responsible vote. Invite the national deputies to take their seats. Now I see 434 national deputies in the session room, 433, come on, your honors, take your seats. It's a motive. Three minutes, please sign up for the vote. Sign up, three minutes. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, are not taking part in the consideration of the matter. We'll vote, then we'll figure out what to do next. We are in the process of dealing with the issue. Regrettably, the question needs to be completed. Motivated. Please, Winterfell, our Ukraine faction. Then Matvienkov. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u83	Victor Pinzenic, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to get everyone's attention and warn them about unaccounted for actions. There is a paragraph in this provision that stipulates that the election is invalid. I want to explain what this is about. This is about preserving existing authority. Dear friends, I ask you very much to pay attention to this, because your decision can either lead to a normal situation or give you a new strain.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u85	Matvienkov. Then Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. I'm on record, dear colleagues, I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u86	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to ask everyone to calm down, because when passions are aroused, emotions can't be solved, the fateful problems of our Ukraine are the first. Second. I know very well that if we assess the situation, whoever wins this situation with the candidates, unfortunately, we will come to the moment that the entire Ukrainian people lose. The one standing at the stands today, the one standing on the street today. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would ask that each faction carefully decide to go to the meeting, to announce a small recess so that each paragraph of this order can be weighed. For each line, for each letter of this decree, the fateful moments of our Power are the further development of Ukraine. Let's hold consultations, let's weigh down and start voting in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u87	Yes. Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u88	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u89	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u90	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! I appeal to all of us today because we are united in the desire to restore justice, honesty and legality in the actions of the entire vertical, vertical, which promotes the exercise, exercise, and will of our people to elections, fair elections. And in this case, it seems to me that those who have asked the question of fair elections today are not interested in the fact that all the counterfeiting took place in the first round of elections, and this does not allow you to believe in the fact that you're just trying to make sure that we're with you in general, so to speak, that we don't allow further falsification. So we're Communists, and we're going to say, in general, we're going to say, "No" and we're going to have a re-election. Then it'll be just as fair, and we'll all be together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u91	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u92	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The question is a very responsible one. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I propose before the vote to reconvene the Conciliation Council, because it has been agreed earlier that we recognize the invalid elections on the second round and we are re-voting on the second round. This is the first time. Secondly, I'm addressing the national MPs, you have to understand that there are 200,000 people on the street right now, none of them will come out until we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u93	I beg you not to be afraid! The Supreme Council is aware of its position and responsible. Don't be alarmed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u94	I propose to invite three presidents, to invite Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, there is a chair. If most people have their own president, put them on the right hand. Look to Leonid Danilovich, where he will sit: on Lubyanka or you will set up a chair here, and we will make a decision, but by consensus, so that we do not fight so that we do not divide Ukraine, but rather by consensus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you all of the decisions of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and factions, and I would like to be able to comment and interpret the decision of the Conciliation Board as Head. We've created a compromise draft of the Supreme Council's decision to present options that have been proposed by different political forces, different factions and groups. So let's say the first one is three choices. So to say that we've agreed on one option, we don't have yet, unfortunately, a reason. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you that a lot of people, representatives of the institutions, are now calling for a speech. But at the Conciliation Council, we decided that we would only have speeches from MPs and factions, and we agreed. And we're going to make decisions, because we're all clear. If we don't make a decision, then we'll speak again until we reach agreement on the consolidated position of the Supreme Council. So I'd like to take it as a tribute, not to be offended, but right now, in order for us to really consult, we don't need to gather the Conciliation Council, because we've already talked everything out at the Conciliation Council. So right now I'd like to ask the factions to gather in different parts of the session room and make an offer for a break of 14 hours for 30 minutes. After that, everyone should be in the session room to express his or her position. A break of up to 14 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u96	Invite people's deputies. Please take your seats, we'll keep working. Invite the national deputies to the session hall, because the number of national deputies we have registered is 441, now 367. This is a testimony that national MPs are taking out cards. Dear colleagues, while you're organizing, I'm going to make statements to the national MPs who insist on asking me to publish them. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the departure of the national MP, Igor Vasilovich, from the MP's "Region of Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Kisse Anton Ivanovich, from the Socialist Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Yes, invite the national deputies to the session room. I'd like to invite the people's deputies to come into the session room. Yes, distinguished national deputies, at your request, a recess was announced. You've consulted. We've identified, I think, a final position. I'm asking the honourable colleagues there to prepare for the vote so that they don't say that they don't understand or that the cards don't work. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. For reasons, please write down three minutes. An entry is being written for motifs. Three minutes. Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u98	Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, our Ukraine faction, together with our bloc partners, with other factions, is the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Socialist Party and others. We just held a meeting, and we still want to inform you of what we've come up with. We still insist that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today stop exclusively at the first point, i.e. to recognize the results of the vote in a way that does not correspond to the will of the citizens. Declaring elections in a way that is invalid puts us in a very dangerous legal field that is totally not regulated by the Elections Act. Yes, admit the President's election to someone who doesn't answer. Excuse me, Turmanov, this is how we signed up for the procedure. It's Turmanov from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Bronnnikov, Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Bronnnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u101	Please turn on Bronnikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u102	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The decree generally exacerbates the withdrawal of the President's election procedure from the Ukrainian legal field. Therefore, I believe that we must focus on the drafting of the decision to enter the legal field, wait for the court, set up a group that will make the necessary amendments to the President's electoral legislation and only then consider the matter that is being raised today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u103	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u104	The Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich! There is a request to follow the Rules strictly, because we will not vote so, and by evening this draft decree will be back by morning. I mean, the offer that's been made by the agreed council to vote, it's not going through. Second as a comment. Vladimir Mihajlovich, you did not respond at all to the provocation of Rudzkowski. During these elections, the people have already come to understand what the socialists are -- the provocateurs who keep the masses excited, and Rudzikowski has now stated that no one will come out of this room; he is now standing to warm up a crowd of students. I just want to say that if we go out, we'll take Rudkovsky with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your observation, but we don't want to put up a fight in the session room right now, but there's a replication at Rudzkowski's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u106	It means giving the word to Alexander Alexander Frost and apologizing to a colleague for calling me that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u107	Please freeze, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I can't say I'm indignant, I'm looking for a word that better explains my attitude towards what Deputy Kravchenko said and I'd like him to think about what he said first. And secondly, you notice, there's been a multi-tousal rally in Kiev for many days now, he's been holding a meeting, he's holding this meeting, he's got enough reason not to speak against the communists, he hasn't said a word in these days, you think about what you're saying, and if you do that, believe me, I'll find a lot of arguments for you not to say that again, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to concentrate, calm down, we must make a judgmental and responsible decision, so according to our agreement, I will read, we will vote on each and every single point separately. If we do not make a decision, we will consult, so I am now reading the preamble: the Supreme Council, expressing the sovereign will of the people, seeking to develop a democratic rule of law in order to ensure civil peace and tranquillity in Ukraine, ensuring that the will of the Ukrainian people is determined in the elections of the President of Ukraine is determined, and recognizing the responsibility for the situation in Ukraine and the political crisis that has arisen in connection with the holding of the elections of the President of Ukraine, as the only national representative body in the country decides. That's how I vote for the preamble, please vote. [[14:43:17]] For 425 Dear colleagues, since we voted in the preamble, are now assigned to make decisions on the operative part. That's it. In general, huh? Now, I'm reading the first paragraph in the first version. Please listen carefully. First point. To recognize the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 as having occurred with mass violations of electoral legislation and not reflecting fully the will of the people. In this regard, it is necessary to re-vote under the Ukrainian Presidential Elections Act with changes made to the practice of implementing the existing law on Sunday, 21 days from the date of entry into force of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine or a separate relevant law. Yes, there's a vote coming. Please vote. Change the vote. Please, three minutes after this point. Please write to vote on this item. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Yuri Shirko, please. Whom. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u111	Roman Zvaric, please. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. First, we ask that our formulations be very clear. In connection with this first paragraph, we propose that, after the word “see the results” be declared invalid, the results of the re-voting by the CTED are declared invalid, then by the text. Vote this part separately. The other one. We think that trying to increase the vote is trying to drive the problem into a dead end. So we agree with the possibility of re-voting, but no later than December 12th, the second part of which is to record the December 12th, 2004. And these two parts vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is how we're going to go. If you insist, then we will vote on the ground, and then we will vote on these proposals. You can't do that. Dear colleagues, if you don't, I'll put you to the vote once, and you'll follow the procedure. I say again, follow procedure. We're not going to make decisions, we're going to move on to other proposals. But let's follow some real scenario. Please, Colony, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass on the word to the Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u115	Vladimir Julius Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this point is most decisive. So we would ask, first of all, here are some clarifications about the text of the preamble itself, we're counting on the word "with mass," they, if confirmed, then they'll be confirmed somewhere in both CBC and in court. And so far, they're being taken off -- "massive." And secondly, we'd like to look at all of these in terms of options -- the first option, the second and the third. Because this is the most fundamental point that determines the future fate of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u117	George Ponomarenko. We can only vote on each article. Because then every sentence will have to be voted on. But then we won't accept anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u119	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u120	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I address you again and address our radio audiences. The representatives of our Ukraine admitted that there was a terrible forgery on the first tour, primarily against the communists. And in this case, if we don't count the first round, then you and I only give reasons, let's say, to admit that it was forged in the second round. We, the Communist faction, are going to vote for the second option: "to see the President's 2004 election in a way that did not happen." So we're going to condemn the entire counterfeiting system on the first round and on the second round of the election. And then we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u121	Well, I can't. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u122	And in society, give positive signals that the Supreme Council is fighting for legality, justice and for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u123	Yes. Dear National Deputies! Calm down! I want to say again, we sign up, we say, now the proposal will be voted on as a basis, and then, if it doesn't pass, we'll vote on the proposals. Sign up! I'm going to read again, my esteemed colleagues, the first paragraph, the first paragraph, which will be put to the vote on the basis. Now, one minute, I'm mobilizing. May I have your attention, please? The first item is to recognize the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 in such a way that there have been massive violations of electoral legislation that do not fully reflect the will of the people. In this regard! In this regard! In this regard, it is necessary to re-vote under the Ukrainian law on "On Elections of the President of Ukraine" with changes made with regard to the practice and implementation of the existing drafting of this law, on Sunday, 21 days from the date of entry into force of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law "On Elections of the President of Ukraine" or a separate relevant law. This paragraph shall be put to the vote as a basis. Please vote. That's the basis! No matter what I say, there will be no vote at all. [[14:50:12]] For 225 Dear colleagues, this item, then it is still not considered at all. Now comes the second point. Please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We'll be back, we'll get through it! But we had to score. Well, if you'll excuse me! Give me a chance to say. The factions, please. Yes. "Our Ukraine" didn't give one vote. "Our Ukraine" - 99, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 0, SDPU - 3, "Trudova Ukraine" - 6, National agrarian - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Union" - 8, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Centre" - 12, "NDP and PPU - 12, "Deminiciatives" - 2, "Postfaction - 17. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Please calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, who's in charge of this, may I have your attention, please? - to go back to voting on the first paragraph in the first paragraph. Voting and then moving on. And then we'll move on, well, then we'll move on. I see we're leaving now. Well, I've already put it to a vote, please be sure, that's all! Well, let's move on. I've already put it to a vote. [[14:51:41]] For 217 Can I have your attention, please? We'll go through everything, and then we'll come back not once, please don't worry. Well, if we don't make any decisions, I mean, Peter Mikolayovich, if we don't make any decisions. May I have your attention, please? The first item in the next paragraph is the vote. Attention, one minute, calm down! We're all going through options. What about Vladimir Mikhailovich? I don't want to spoil it. I want to follow procedure. That's how he's gonna break up. He didn't say, he won't break up. Let's move on. Well, what do you want from me? Do you just want the first paragraph to be voted on? Let the Supreme Council determine. Well, what are you doing? Well, let's at least preserve the visibility of democracy! What are you talking about? Yes, calm down! The other one. You suggested that we take it as a basis and then make it up to you. We can't do that. But the Supreme Council didn't accept it, well, how can you not understand that? Now let's move on with our motives. Wait a minute! Second item. Well, let's go through, and then we'll go back. Well, what do you do all the time? Now I'm going to read the second paragraph. Wait a minute! I'm going to read the first item, the second option, and then I'm going to exchange it with a motive. Wait a minute! He'll bet on it. Well, calm down! Well, what about Vladimir Mikhailovich? I'm going to the Rules. It will be the first paragraph of the second paragraph, which will be put to the vote by the honourable colleagues: "Confirm the elections of the President of Ukraine in 2004 to those that did not take place. The President's re-elections will be held within the deadlines set by the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act. Three minutes out of the procedure, please. I'm going to the Rules. What are you accusing? Dear colleagues, you're acquiescing the hall, not me. I'll vote for everything, yeah. Please sign in. Ivancho, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u124	I'm asking you to pass on the word to Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u125	Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I ask you to pay attention once again to what we are talking about. It's about that. Dear National Deputies, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear friends! We don't have the right to put points like this to a vote. The point is, dear friends, that nothing should happen in a country that is essentially in power. Inadvertent recognition means that new elections are under way. After the first tour, the Supreme Council gave its assessment. It's about that. to reverse the results of the second vote, to recognize those that did not occur. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have made a proposal separately for parts to vote first. Individually vote, declared invalid. And separately determine the term of the re-voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u127	I mean, the honourable colleagues that we voted for the basis. And then, when we're in general, we can vote in positions. And you suggested, Victor Mikhailovich, let's all be objective now and try to preserve the truth. You've suggested that the election be declared invalid by the election and still by the text. So we had to take the basis and then vote on the proposals. And I'd like to reassure the people's deputies. Please don't teach me. I can still get you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, don't teach me the rules. Don't teach me. Dear National Deputies! Please, calm down. Anyway, we're going to have to vote for the document as a whole. This is not generally accepted, so calm down. Now Samofalov, please. I'll give you the procedure. Sign up, then I'll give it to you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u128	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to correct you. You misread option 1, paragraph 1. "To recognize the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31st and November 21st as such. You read it. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you read "didn't happen" and here you read "what happened." And I'd like to give the floor to Bogdan Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u129	I ask George Samofalov to listen carefully. There's a second option: "to see the President's 2004 election in a way that didn't happen." And the third is "to see what happened." At 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u130	First. We are not the "applause to the 2004 elections of the President of Ukraine in such a way that they did not take place." That's not a good point. The other one. The first paragraph suggests voting and dividing it into two parts. The first part is "to see the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 in such a way that mass violations of electoral legislation have occurred and do not fully reflect the will of the people." And to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's work this out. I see we have no agreement here. Now we're going to go through these three options and then we're going to vote on the paragraphs. That's it. Well, no questions. Then I'd like to have your attention. They've been swapping. You'd better make up your mind. I'm saying everybody signed up, calm down. There is now a vote to be taken on the basis of paragraph 1 in this version of the "visiting the elections of the President of Ukraine in 2004 in such a way that they did not take place. The re-elections of the President of Ukraine will be held within the deadlines set by the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. There were already motives, dear colleagues. [[2:58:09]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Please write it down for three minutes. With motive, three minutes. Now we're going to vote on the third version of the first article. Yes, Giulinsky Mikola Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u133	Roman Zvaric, faction of our Ukraine microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This action consists not only of paragraphs, but of parts. We suggest, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we suggest, I repeat, because you have been distracted. This decision consists of items that, in turn, consist of parts. We propose part 1, paragraph 1 of this draft regulation to be put to the vote separately on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! Once again, I would like to say that the Rules apply to the voting of the article. Now we're not going to make a decision then we're going back and we're going to vote on the paragraphs, I can't throw in half-ways and do someone's work, let's stick to the Rules, Coloniari, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u136	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u137	Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Our comrade Kravchenko said we should vote in accordance with the Rules. We fully support it, and we have excellent knowledge of the Rules in the Bureau. But why do we start voting? Let's write it down, let's print it, let's distribute it, let's read it all. And after hearing the case, we'll deal with each other and blush in front of our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! We don't vote out words, I'm going straight to the Rules. We haven't voted on anything yet, I'm voting on what's in the text. Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u140	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u141	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, where I am addressing us again and again when we are meeting today, defending the truth, to bring order to the state, and to tell what stage has taken place, at what stage the falsification of the elections took place. I'm underlining that, in this case, those who have not supported our proposal are using double morals because it's not clear then who in the second round is in general, if in the first round of this kind of quantity has been falsified, then who in the second round has fallen, what is it that happens to us? In the first round, falsification is complete for criminal capital to come to the second round, and then, in the second round alone, we cancel the results of the vote. That's why I insist that we recognize elections that didn't take place in two months, according to the rule of law, and we'll be running elections already.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u143	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to draw attention to the text of the first paragraph that we will vote on. Since we are talking about the need for a vote, there must be a legal assessment of the reasons why, i.e. the recognition of elections is invalid, and so the first point must be written: that the invalid results of the re-election of the President on November 21st, which have occurred with mass violations of electoral legislation, do not reflect the full extent of the people's will, and that in the second round, it's also lacquered, because we found them invalid and the vote provides for a term of voting, then in the text after the words "sunday 12 December 2004" put a dot. And finally, if we go back to the first round, let's go back to the 99th year, where there was even more counterfeiting, and we'll also consider that after the first round, we've considered the issue of that, too big.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u145	Yes. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put the first in the third. To recognize the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31st and November 21st 2004 as having taken place in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the valid laws of Ukraine concerning the election of the President of Ukraine and the Central Election Commission of Ukraine. [[15:03:44]] For-69 Please, calm down, dear fellows, calm down. Well, let's keep working. Well, please calm down, dear fellows. Well, you see. Let's go to the factions, please. Well, calm down. Let us seek consensus, not opposition. "Our Ukraine" -0; "Regions of Ukraine" -56; Communists, SDPU(o), Labour Ukraine -0; National Agrarian -1; SPI, Block Timoshenko -0; "Union" -1; "Only Ukraine" -7; "Centre" -0; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -0; "Democratic Initiatives" -3; non-fractional -1. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Now we're going back to the first paragraph in terms of paragraphs. May I have your attention, please? I'm reading, please. I read in that paper that was fixed at the moment of the Conciliation Council. Based on, yes, based on. To recognize the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 as having occurred with mass violations of electoral legislation and not reflecting fully the will of the people. Please vote. [[15:05:16]] For 323 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, please let's work. "Our Ukraine" - 97; "Regions of Ukraine" - 3; Communists - 19; SDPU - 37; "Urban Ukraine" - 27; People's Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Union" - 13, Party "One Ukraine" - 12, "Centre" - 15, NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 16, Deminiciative - 8, non-fractional - 18. Now, honourable colleagues, made suggestions. I will now put these proposals to the vote. Supplement. May I have your attention, please? "According to the invalid results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004, which took place," we release "with mass," "with violations of electoral legislation and do not fully reflect the will of the people." Once again, I read, "Condemn the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004, which have occurred with violations of electoral legislation and do not reflect fully the will of the people." Please, vote on this motion, please vote. Now. [[15:07:00]] For 247 Point taken. For reasons, please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u146	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I still have a question for everyone, let's calm down. We've had forgeries in both the west and the east. And once again, in the first round of the main course, in the West, the candidate on the one side, in the east, on the other side. So in this case, let's also define the attitude of our Supreme Council that these candidates have no right to participate in the elections. Because they helped to make counterfeiting in both the west and the east of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The second part is now put to the vote with the clarifications that have been made. There was a clarification -- December 12th, the first proposal, the second proposal, the second proposal, December 19th. Before that, I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues how to put these two proposals to the vote. May I have your attention, please? To vote, to say this: "If the Supreme Council decides and acknowledges, it expresses its mistrust to the Central Election Commission. If you're making a proposal and an invitation to the President of Ukraine to submit new candidates to the CBC. If there is a question of the formation of local election committees. If there's a question of printing ballots, having another room, then you know very well that by December 12, it's impossible to do that." I'll put it to a vote, but it's a revolutionary push. Let's be clear. And then the second sentence of 19, we're going to make these proposals consistently. For reasons, please write down three minutes. For the second paragraph, please sign in. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u148	Mikhailo Kossov, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've listed exactly all these problems that need to be solved before re-voting. You have rightly indicated that it is impossible to solve these problems in two weeks. But it is unknown whether the Supreme Council will vote for all the changes that you have called. So let's vote first on the CFC, on the district commissions, on the amendments to the Presidential Elections Act, and then we'll vote on the date of the re-voting, which may finally be December 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u149	Yes, Matthew gives Alexander the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u150	Deputies! We have force majeure. If we have declared the election invalid and have agreed on the need for a vote, we must not postpone the matter. People are oriented, they're going to vote for each other, they're going to vote for each other, they're going to vote for each other, but you don't have to pull the trigger. And the 12th number is quite enough to do all the procedures that Vladimir Mikhailovich was talking about. So what I think is that before the last vote, the second set of ballots was ready, they were made immediately. So let's give both the formation of CFCs and the formation of territorial commissions according to new principles, and the adoption of laws that need to be adjusted for the vote, you can do all of that if you want. And we will do so, for all interested ones are more likely to solve the problem and address the social crisis. Vote to the 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u151	So you take your offer off, Alexander Alexander! Yes, it is. The Doman Anatoly, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u152	Please hand over Bondarchuk Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u153	Alexander Bondarchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u154	Thank you. Comrades, if we want to be completely consistent, we really have to take into account two, at least the following moments: falsification, I repeat the position of our faction, they were both in the west and in the east, they were both in the first round and in the second. And if we really want the honest elections that we're talking about here today, we have to start an electoral campaign with you from the very beginning. And secondly, understanding that the crisis is largely due to the fact that we have such powers today by the President, I reiterate that this should also be a condition for the holding of subsequent re-elections. First the constitutional reform, then the re-election from the very beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u155	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote taking into account the acceptance of the second article in the first version. I'll read it. Can I have your attention, please? Taking into account the proposal that you add. In this regard, it is necessary to re-vote under the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine and changes made to take account of the practice of implementing the existing law on December 12th, after the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Elections of the President of Ukraine" or a separate relevant law has become effective. Dear colleagues, if we don't accept a change of law, we won't be able to hold an election. They need to take action. I'll put him to the vote again. But how will you vote when there is no law?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, I read again carefully that the election takes place in 12 numbers. I am voting only on the amendment that has been tabled. May I have your attention, please? I'm reading again. In this regard, it is necessary to re-vote under the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine and changes made to take account of the practice of implementing the existing law, on 12 December following the entry into force of the law on 12 December 2004, after the entry into force of the law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine or a separate relevant law. So we're fixing December 12th, and so far we need to adopt changes to the law. This part of article 1 is voted out in the first instance. [[15:15:22]] For 210 The decision is not taken. So, your honors, please pay attention to the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" 99, "Ukrainian Regions" 4, Communists - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 3, National Agrarian - 19, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" - 3, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Centre" - 14, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 7, Democratic Initiatives - 2, non-fractional - 17. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, please? I'm now voting for the whole 1st article of this content. May I have your attention, please? "Conceal the invalid results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004, which have occurred with violations of electoral legislation and do not reflect fully the will of the people." Yes, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We only accepted it as a basis. That's what I'm putting to the vote as an article. [[15:16:50]] For 255 We have generally accepted this formulation of the article. Let us now proceed to the consideration and vote of article 2. I'm reading it. "To express mistrust to the Central Electoral Commission in relation to the improper performance of its obligations under the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine." Do you understand the wording? I'm putting it on the ground. Change the vote! Please sign up for motive. Three minutes of motive. Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u156	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. I'm asking you to pass the word to a colleague of Roman Zvaric's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We now have a historic opportunity to restore justice in our country. If we do not vote for mistrust by the Central Electoral Commission, then our decisions that we have already made will not make any sense to anyone. That is why we insist that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined to fulfil its responsibility and acknowledge that the Central Electoral Commission has allowed the falsification of the results of the elections. As a result, she admitted her mistrust.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u158	Matvienkov, please, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u159	It's 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I urge you to calm down again. I want to say one thing: I think that everyone who lives both in the West and in the East and in the South, we all want our families to live properly, so that our children can live properly, so that the people of Ukraine can live properly. We cannot today lead to us starting to divide or tear Ukraine apart. But I wanted to propose and stand in one position, zero if we were talking about violations in the electoral process, let's go straight back to the zero option and conduct the elections honestly from scratch, with a new law, with political reform. Today, unfortunately, you didn't go to this option and you didn't support it. Now I ask you the following, you understand very well that there are people working on the election boards and working for them. You're all in euphoria today, so what you're giving for three days, you're going to make changes in two weeks about publishing the law in the press and how they're going to make choices about how people work, what you're putting them in that position, they're going to work with that kind of tension anyway. You'll excuse me, but first you have to think about the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u160	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! The Central Electoral Commission is an accounting office that calculates everything that's passed on to district areas. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that all the violations took place in the district commissions, with no one asking about what was going on and no one changed. So I insist that I first set up a temporary special investigation commission and deal with all the violations, because the same divisional committees will be holding elections, unless this is the case again, is the reason that, let's say, they will be falsified for the benefit of one of the political forces, unless the same temporary or let's say technical candidates with the President have not distorted or altered the composition of the same district committees and formed a falsification of the elections, so, honourable, before we talk about the Central Electoral Commission's evaluation, let's deal with this vertical.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u162	On the basis of your motives, your honors, your attention, please. The vote is based on article 2 of the Draft Decision: Express distrust to the Central Electoral Commission in connection with the improper performance of its obligations under the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. [[15:21:43]] For 263 Yes, please pay attention to the factions I'll give you, for -263, an article accepted as a basis, please note, everything. The factions, please. Dear people's deputies, I ask you once again, attention please, let's not blame each other, not scream, but work quietly. "Our Ukraine" - 99, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 39, SDPU - 4, "Trudova Ukraine" - 7, People's Agriculture - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 6, "One Ukraine" - 3, Center - 14, NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 1, non-fractional - 17. Now, if there are no warnings I can put in this article as a whole, I am voting on the adoption of article 2 as a whole. Please vote. [[15:22:45]] For 270. Article accepted. May I have your attention, Your Honor, please pay attention, let's work, I beg you, calm down. I read article 3. In factions, please, sit down, please, allow me to work. "Our Ukraine" -100; "Regions of Ukraine" -3; Communists -45; SDPU(o) - 4; "Urban Ukraine" -6; National Agrarian -20; SPI -20; Block Timoshenko -19; "Union" -6; "Only Ukraine" -5; "Centre" -14; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -10; "Deminicatives" - 1; non-fractional -17. May I have your attention, please? I announce the third article, which will be put to the vote on the basis. Invite the President of Ukraine to submit an application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the suspension of the terms of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission and on the basis of a proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and candidates for the election of the President of Ukraine for five candidates each to serve as members of the Central Electoral Commission. Please withdraw from the vote. For reasons, please sign in for three minutes. Yes, Paul Silent, faction of "Our Ukraine." Please, Zvezigilski next will ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Paul Mokchan, "Our Ukraine" faction, Ukrainian People's Party. No doubt after the vote on the first paragraph, when we have expressed our mistrust, we have to change our composition logically. The most appropriate and objective form of parity. And so I urge everyone to support these very positions proposed by the Conciliation Council. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u164	Yuhim Zviagilassky, faction of "Ukraine". None. Mishur Valery Dmitrovich, Communist faction. Mishur's handing over Peter Simonica. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u165	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that I should put a dot, a dot in a sentence at a place like this: "To invite the President of Ukraine to submit a submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the early termination of the powers of the members of the Central Electoral Commission. " And a dot. And all the rest, we're already in charge of the Supreme Council, we're going to gather all the political forces here in the Supreme Council and we can propose then. Because it seems that we have the Central Election Commission on the second round alone. And we have her working under the law, so let's say, for seven years, if I'm not mistaken. And only at the suggestion of two candidates will a quality warehouse be formed. This also limits the rights and possibilities of the rest of the political forces. I'm against it. So I suggest you put a dot there. Under the chairmanship of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, agree on a list of candidates to propose to the President for introduction and consideration in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you now to listen calmly, without emotion. What Peter Mikolaiovich said is right. The thing is, fellow colleagues, we don't know how the process is going to go any further. All we did was decide to make the election invalid. They've already said it. That's why we had to really, honourable colleagues, write it down and vote it out now -- "Propose the President of Ukraine to submit an application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the early termination of the powers of members of the Central Electoral Commission." And put a dot on it. Otherwise, you know, we still don't know how the process is going to develop. For what reasons? We've already voted. Motives. Let's calm down. It's real. There might be another point. "To invite the President to make nominations after consultations with factions and groups of the Supreme Council." And that would have made sense. There's no other way you're waving your hands? Take a look at the Constitution, then you'll wave your hands. Dear colleagues, we're about to create a coalition that we can't get out of. Three more minutes, please. Three minutes. Turn around, please. Adam Ivanovich, so are we now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u167	Yeah, yeah. Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u168	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I have a specific offer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to yours, to develop your proposal. We need to set a clear date for the President to make these proposals. This should be no later than 1 number so that the Central Election Commission can form everything. So if we're going to compromise and offer all political forces, this date should be set. Because I wanted to warn you, every day we lose goes no further in favor of democracy. It's a closed-circuit radio company called South and Southern Zaporozhye district. Yesterday those punks who arrested the Mukachevo bandits were actually arrested. Democracy is under threat, we can't pull. Therefore, there should be a clear date for the submission of the CTC. First number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u169	Potapov, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u170	Oh, no, no, no. Nope. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In the midst of such passions, we can take whatever we want. We have the Constitution today and we have the CTC Act. We need to focus on the law. And here, Vladimir Mihajlovich, those proposals that you made are entirely useful. Absolutely appropriate! And we cannot in any case deviate from the law that deals with CLTC or the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u171	Yes, Kuharczuk, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Blue Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u173	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u174	Dove!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u175	Blue Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u176	Respectable comrades! Vladimir Mikhailovich! The situation is developing in such a way that one political force wishes to privatize the Central Electoral Commission for seven years. This is serious. Dear comrades, we do not end our lives in Ukraine by presidential elections. We have local elections ahead, parliamentary elections. That is why I would like to hear the proposal made by Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko. They put a point where it was said in the proposal, and, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, your proposal, as you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u177	We are then. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Listen to the wording in which the third paragraph will be put to the vote. Please note: To invite the President of Ukraine to submit before 01.12.2004 a submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the suspension of the terms of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission and the nomination of members of the Central Electoral Commission, priorly aligning them with the parliamentary groups and factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear national MPs, there can be no other. If you want. This is not going to happen because we did not vote on the second paragraph, and you understand that logically. Well, how can you not understand? You didn't vote on the second paragraph, and now it's an absurd question. There's already been a procedure. And I'm voting now. Come on. Then, dear colleagues, we won't take any points if you don't vote. Please. I'm going to vote again. Please note: The President of Ukraine was invited to submit a submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 1 December 2004 on the suspension of the terms of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission and the nomination of members of the Central Electoral Commission, priorly aligning them with the parliamentary groups and factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote in favour. Please vote. [[15:32:47]] For 228 Decision taken. Yes, paragraph four, I ask you to listen very carefully: to acknowledge the need for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 30, I'm here to clarify, because by 29, we're not going to be able to make it. On November 30, 2004, the question of the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of mass violations of electoral law and the conditions for the establishment of the electoral ballots, the territorial constituencies resulting from the 2004 elections of the President of Ukraine. And the next. Arrangements for holding a solemn meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the taking of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine There are two points here, two warnings. I propose, please note, your fellow Members, to delete the word “mass violations” because we deleted it in the previous paragraph, i.e. to talk only about the violation. With regard to the need for an order and procedure for voting. The need for such a decision is due to the fact that the honourable national MPs who launch rumors are inspired, but that the President's inauguration will take place somewhere at the hands of someone. So in order to remove these grounds for any such rumors and for such blackmail, which annoys the public and the national MPs, we need to clearly determine by the Supreme Council's decree: how, by what procedure, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, an appropriate act will be carried out. That's it. No objections? Please write down three minutes of motive. Roman Zvaric, you just signed up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u178	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when we voted on paragraph 3 of this decision, you did not put the vote on the ground. So it seems to me that the decision that we have just made is about taking this point as a basis, but I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that according to the practice that you have already applied to allow the people's deputies of Ukraine. make suggestions to the accepted item as a basis, because I have a lot of suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u179	So let's make proposals right away. Why don't you give them up? Please, you have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u180	Respectable. Then I'd ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give me another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u181	There's only one thing I can say, I'll give you two minutes, Roman Mikhailovich. If you want us to make a decision, we must make it in the form that we have proposed. If you want us to destroy these arrangements, please make suggestions, you'll destroy them. Yes, please, Bull. Calm down! I think you'll consult there and make the right decision. Let's keep voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u182	Please give the floor to Simonek Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u183	Peter Simonenko, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u184	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners! We've all been with you both our friends, our friends and our family were under pressure on 1 round of elections, when they were forced to falsify both in Western Ukraine and elsewhere in Ukraine. The falsification in Ukraine was "common" and widespread falsification. So we, the Communists, and we insist that such a temporary special commission of inquiry may with extended powers be established urgently to verify the results of the vote in each area and again, and again, to identify all those shortcomings and also to bring responsibility to both those who have forced forgeries and those who have ordered this forgery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u185	Dopkin Mikhailo, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u186	Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u187	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u188	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is the third time I've been on the list to be able to express myself. Sadly, something was not included. I thank Michael Dobkin. Dear colleagues! What's going on in the hall today? We demand respect for the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the organs of local self-government in Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv. We're throwing the Constitution and the laws today. And today we're showing how to disrespect the law and the Constitution by making decisions that are not our responsibility and that will be very, very difficult for us to answer for. We are ruining the legal system in our country today. And our citizens need to know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u189	Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind myself that I am watching the computer light up and that, according to my time, I am giving everyone the opportunity to speak with tolerance. Maybe there wasn't enough time for that. I want to reread the four points that I put to the vote. To acknowledge the need for a review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 30 November 2004 of the issue of the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into non-mass-free violations, the investigation of electoral legislation violations and the circumstances of the establishment of the electoral summary in the polling stations, the territorial constituencies and the results of the 2004 elections of the President of Ukraine. The arrangements for holding a solemn meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the taking of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine, I think there is no need to take a stand here immediately. I put to the vote the whole of this 4th article, please vote. 30 numbers, please, this isn't Monday -- it's Tuesday when the Supreme Council of Ukraine is sitting. [[15:39:42]] For 307 Article accepted. I'll read Article 5, please. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government will provide preparations for the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: (a) Within a two-day period of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine or a separate relevant law, it provides, inter alia, for the abolition of the institution of voting for reinforced certificates, as well as outside the voting facilities, for the clarification of the mechanisms of judicial control over decisions, actions and inaction of the relevant subjects of the electoral process. Improving legislative mechanisms to ensure the stability of electoral commissions, equal representation from candidates to the Presidents of Ukraine, including adjustments, including the adjustment of often-regulatory positions in electoral commissions, etc.; ( b) By 29 November 2004, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the arrangements for the holding of a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the taking of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine. Well, as you can see, point (b) is adjusted to the requirements of paragraph 4 that we WRITER IN THE ZALU
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u190	We didn't vote, it's okay. So I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. and then the proposals, on the basis of that, please vote. Puts to the vote the adoption of the law as a basis. [[15:41:16]] For 256 Please sign up for 3 minutes. With motive, yes. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who wrote: Valerius Assadchev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u191	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think we should take point (b) off because we've already voted it out, it's just going to repeat itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u192	What point?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u193	Paragraph (b). Paragraph 5 (b).
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u194	No, it's not. We've written it down in point four: to the 30th number, but to look at the 30th number, but in order to look at the 30th number, you have to have the 29th number of the Committee present this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u195	This is a commission why the Supreme Council, the committees so know that it has to be done, it's a simple repetition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u196	It's not a repeat, so be it. Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u197	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I understand that anything can be taken under euphoria today, but let's think about what we're doing, let me give you a specific example, of course, of course, of course, that's not normal, but let's think about these examples, for example, in a combination every two days, about 500 people leave to rest in the Ay Daniel sanatorium, they vote there, the second moment, we have people who don't live where they're registered. How can we today deprive you of their right to vote? How can we violate their rights, let us write this article in such a way that you can come up with a mechanism that does not allow this matter to be used, that it is a mechanism to control this issue, that is another matter, but to prohibit the use of such things, that is an attack on human rights, nothing else, that is the deprivation of our citizens to vote as they see fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u198	Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction. Please. I'll give it to you, dear fellows, after they've signed up. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u199	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, indeed, in the way that we are voting today on strengthening coupons, this may not be the best mechanism for the realization of the human right to vote. And it's probably time to work out the form of these punching coupons so that you can only vote once on this card. And second moment. Again, we propose, mass, millions, I am sure, veterans, old people who cannot come to the polls to vote themselves, this is where we deny the right to vote. These are the elderly, the sick, in winter, they will not come to the precincts. It is therefore necessary to ensure their right to vote outside the stations, while ensuring control. That is why we cannot vote in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u200	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u201	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, let's go without emotion to what's going on in the hall today. Imagine a person who has been made an illegal decision then has the right to punish someone who has taken it, a decision that does not satisfy him. Dear colleagues, today we are pressing the Supreme Court 6, pressing the Central Electoral Commission, the constitutional bodies that we do not have the right to make, even any decisions. Dear colleagues, today we are violating the Constitution, today we are violating the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, which was imposed on us by our Ukrainians. If this goes on, we won't have the right to blame anyone for similar actions at any level of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now propose a clarification. Anatoly Sergiyovich, you'll agree with him. I'm reading it now. Not "returning the voting system," "improvement of the institute." Isn't that "no, no, no"?Oh, my God! Are we going to be the law to consider that "no-no-no"?Oh, my God! I'm reading the article, please. "Article 5. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to provide preparation and input to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: (a) Within a two-day period of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine or a separate relevant law, providing, inter alia, for the improvement of the institution of voting for reinforced certificates, as well as for the limits of voting facilities, the refinement of judicial controls over decisions, actions and omissions of the relevant subjects of the electoral process, the improvement of legislative mechanisms for ensuring stability, the activities of the electoral commissions, their equal representation from candidates to Ukraine's Presidents, including the adjustment of the frequency of management positions in electoral commissions, etc.; (b) By November 29, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the arrangements for the holding of a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the formation of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine". I put to the vote the adoption of this article in general. Please vote, in general. [[15:47:14]] For 233 Article accepted. I read Article Six. She's there in two ways. But the second option can no longer vote according to the logic of the draft ruling. "Article six. With a view to completing constitutional reform, it is appropriate to propose to the Interim Special Commission for the Drafting of Bills on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine to ensure the preparation and submission of a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the period from 1 to 3 December 2004 amending the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 4180, provided that its text is previously supported by the signatures of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the amount necessary for its adoption. I think it's a second. This is a condition that we have to withdraw and vote. I write, Peter Alexiyovich, if you want compromise, you have to compromise. I repeat the article, and now, for the purpose of voting in such an editorial, with a view to completing constitutional reform, it is appropriate to propose to the Provisional Special Commission for the Drafting of Bills amending the Constitution of Ukraine to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is prepared and submitted for consideration between 1 and 3 December 2004 a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 4180. Please vote in full. Vote please! Please vote in full, because then you won't get the search results. Vote! Vote please! [[15:48:58]] For 271 Decision taken. Article 7. May I have your attention, please? Invite Viktor Yushchenko and Viktor Yanukovich to negotiate urgently with a view to overcoming the crisis at the signing of the relevant political agreement. To urge the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" faction to appeal to their supporters and organizers of civil disobedience, to sign the stated political agreement, to refrain from blocking public authorities and administrations, communications and institutions that ensure its functioning, which, since such actions, taking into account the winter period, can have negative consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the round table, may I have your attention? Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. Calm down! He promised that only the care of government agencies would take place, but there would be no blocking their work. And he gave his word yesterday at the Round Table. Alexander Alexanderovich, I was at the Round Table and was told by Javier Solana in an interview with a journalist. I want to say again, if we want compromise and to make a decision in full, vote, dear fellows. I'm voting on this paragraph, 7, entirely. Again, I mean, I'm always objective and, well, don't vote! Then there will be no decision in general. You don't want to do that. [[15:50:40]] For 267 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 0, “Ukraine” - 56, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 35, “Urban Ukraine” - 30, National Agrarian Party - 18, SPO - 0, Timoshenko - 0, “Union” - 15, “One Ukraine” - 14, “Centre” - 3, “NDP and PPU - 14, “Deminiciatives” - 14, “Affectives” - 9. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of various factions! If you want to go to heaven on a strange hill, we will not make any decisions. If we're talking about compromise, let's look for compromise, all the more so that this point was accepted by everyone. I ask you carefully, article eight, please: "The local authorities of the executive branch and local self-government to ensure compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, as well as the uninterrupted work of hospitals, educational institutions, transport, municipal services, communications enterprises, to provide effective assistance to law enforcement authorities in ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens, to review immediately after 21 November of this year's decision and to bring them into line with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. We're going to move them, we're going to move the seventh and the eighth, because there's no logic here. No objections? I put the vote to the adoption of this paragraph as a whole. Please vote against Matthew's proposals to move. [[15:52:34]] For 391 Decision taken. Paragraph 9, honourable national deputies, let us make a decision. Paragraph 9. This paragraph is directly copied from the common communiqué that used to be. I'll read it, then. I'll read it, then. What was written yesterday at the round table as a result of the round table. 9 points. It is unacceptable to use force against members of civil disobedience, which may further exacerbate the conflict. Sign up for your motives. Three minutes, please. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u203	Please pass the word to Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u204	Please. Check the microphone at Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I've put in a draft decision that matches that point. In my draft decree, I propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine prohibit the use of firearms against participants in mass protests. This draft decree is in the hands of the human rights authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass the word to the Commissioner for Human Rights so that she may also support my draft ruling on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u206	Dear people's deputies, who do we have, Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u207	I'd like to give the Bronnnikov a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u208	Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u209	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, a respected human rights defender in Ukraine! I'd like to pay attention. That the use of force is unacceptable on both sides. Of course, I'm here to support Mr. Zvaric. There can be no firearms. But we have to understand that power is generally unacceptable in carrying out civilian actions of any kind, both on the one hand and on the other. I therefore propose to complement and call upon the parties to the action to renounce any forceful interaction with other actors in public life.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u210	Valentina Matthew, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u211	Vladimir Matthew. Please give the floor to Simonek Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u212	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u213	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think we still need to make an amendment to this point. And I suggest we make it that way. "To consider it unacceptable to use force against all actors of the stock to eliminate civil disobedience, which could further exacerbate the conflict." And the addition of "as long as they comply with the laws in force." Because it is achieved that they will now arbitrarily do what they want to do and they will not be held accountable under the law. There's a law in force, so I suggest you add "with the law in place." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u214	Yes, we exchanged thoughts. Since there is a supplement, please. All right, time's up. Oh, one more minute. Please, Michael Dobkin, there is one minute. Mikhail Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u215	Please contradict the word of Nestor Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u216	Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear fellow countrymen! Note that Ukraine's higher legislative body now has nothing to do with the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, or the Constitution of Ukraine. [[N o M e s s a ……]] We're here to determine the results of the election. Why did we make those choices at all? We're here expressing the trust or mistrust of the CTC. It's not our competence, and it's also defined by the Constitution. And notice the previous vote. We're here to negotiate, and they're not going to do that, they've given us zero votes to settle the situation in Ukraine. Hence, those who voted in favour of them today may call themselves political thieves. I apologize for that word, but it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u218	Yes, may I have your attention, distinguished national deputies? I'm going to put item 9 on the base and then. Mikola, we're running out of time. Let's follow the rules. 9th paragraph. Consider it a base. It is unacceptable to use force against members of civil disobedience, which may further exacerbate the conflict. On the basis of that, please vote. [[15:58:15.]] For 358 Now, if you'll excuse me. A proposal that is put to the vote. “It is unacceptable to use force against all political actors.” I'm asking you, I'm putting a motion to the vote. You want me to listen to you, I want to say calm down again. “that may result in further exacerbation of the conflict, provided they comply with the applicable legislation.” All must abide by the laws that are in force. With this proposal in mind, I would like to vote on the adoption as a whole, please vote on the 9th article, please. [[15:59:03]] For 279 Yes, for -279, 9 articles have been adopted. The factions, please. The motives will be different. "Our Ukraine" - 2, "Regions of Ukraine" - 56, Communists - 58, SDPU -34, "Trudova Ukraine" - 30, People's Agrarian - 20, SPO-1, Block Timoshenko - 5, Union - 15, only Ukraine - 14, Center - 8, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, Democratic Initiatives - 14, non-fractional - 9. Dear colleagues! We've made a normal, civilized decision that's written down in all the documents that's for. It's just... it's... Paragraph 10, please note, let me make an announcement and then it will be for reasons. Calling the representatives of the international community to a more balanced attitude, I would simply throw out more and write simply: "Talk to assessments, situations in Ukraine, and refrain from inciting and preconceived speeches and calls which. I think this point should have been thrown out. So I'm taking this as a basis, and you just define yourself. [[16:00:21]] For 231 Copy that. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1; "Regions of Ukraine" - 57; Communists - 59; SDPU - 27; "Urban Ukraine" - 30; National Agrarian - 1; SPI - 0; Block Timoshenko - 1; "Union" - 13; "Only Ukraine" - 13; "Centre" - 3; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 8; "Democratic Initiatives" - 14; non-fractional - 4. With the motivations of this article for 3 minutes, please with suggestions. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Joulinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u219	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u220	Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u221	Honorable colleagues, respected compatriots. The fact remains that almost the entire international community has qualified our presidential elections. She clearly concluded that these elections had been falsified. We have reached the same conclusion today. The drafting of this paragraph actually calls into question the sharpness of criticism by the international community. And it's inconsistent if we, in fact, also admit that the elections were falsified. That's why I'm proposing to delete this item.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u222	Domanski. Please. And, Matvienkov, excuse me, Matvienkov, please, "Regions of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u223	55th District, Mariupol, Matvienkov. Dear colleagues, Ukraine is our common home and the order in it can only be arranged with you. And we don't really like to be watched and heard when they start teaching us how to do the right thing. I don't think anyone but you can make peace in this house, no one but you can solve the issues we have with you. Therefore, the paragraph is balanced, normal, civilized, so it is appropriate to leave it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u224	Anatoly Domansky, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u225	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u226	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u227	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, people of Ukraine, this paragraph is correct and The Communist faction voted today to draw the attention of the entire public to what is happening to us in Ukraine, but you see and we are with you witnesses of how anti-Russian hysteria is constantly being suppressed, including, let's say, representatives of various media, and this will not lead to better neighbourly relations with Russia, Ukraine becoming a geopolitical platform for using pro-Western politicians, conducting experiments in Ukraine. We therefore demand that this paragraph be included today in order to exclude the interference of external political centres, including various political structures, in the assessment of developments in Ukraine, particularly in the pressure of anti-Russia hysteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u228	Nestor Shufric, please, the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u229	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and thank you separately for the opportunity to meet here today, we are gathered here to find an opportunity to resolve the situation that is now taking place in the streets of Kiev and its areas. But now the vote on the possibility of negotiations on the possibility of settling the issue and upholding the rule of law on all sides is ignored and confirmed by zeros when voting on the representatives of our Ukraine. So they want reconciliation, so they want the rule of law in our country, they ignore the memorandum of yesterday's, yesterday's memorandum signed by the Presidents and the presidential candidates and our winner Victor Yanukovic. The laws and the Constitution are for them nothing, everyone has to know about it and we have to live with it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-27-m0.u230	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, I have a general vote. Because there were no suggestions for him, the 10th: calling on the representatives of the international community to take a more balanced view of the assessment of the situation, so that the word "more" could be agreed, "to call on representatives of the international community to take a balanced view of the assessment of the situation in Ukraine and to refrain from encouraging and biased speeches and calls that only complicate it." It's the tenth point. Huh? Please vote, here comes the vote. [[16:05:43]] For 242 An article was adopted. Article eleven. “To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay with the publication of the texts of this decree through the media and to participants in the peaceful actions taking place in Kiev in connection with the election of the President of Ukraine.” I would suggest that we do so. "To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay with the publication of the text of this decree." And put a dot on it. I think it's right. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this way, let's get this straight. We have a lot of work to do, decisions to consolidate Parliament. I need to consolidate Parliament. And when I have to, I'll go around, I'm not afraid to walk yet. I'll vote on paragraph 11. Well, don't vote, it's up to you. "To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay with the publication of the text of this decree." Period. And in general, I'm putting it to a vote. [[16:07:00]] For 363 Decision taken. Now the twelfth point is, "This decision takes effect from the day it was adopted." I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:07:24]] For 337 Copy that. I am voting for the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the political crisis in the country that arose in connection with the election of the President of Ukraine, registration number 6366, please vote in general. Please vote. In general. [[16:07:53]] For 307 It's been decided. The factions, please. The factions. "Our Ukraine" -98, "Ukrainian Regions" - 3, Communists - 54, SDPU - 6, "Trudova Ukraine" -10, National Agrarian - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, Union - 9, "One Ukraine" - 12, Center - 14, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 15, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, non-fractional - 18. Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to think about and work out practical papers on issues that have been adopted. The order of the day that we planned was exhausted. The meeting of the Supreme Council, in turn, is closed. Monday at 11 p.m., Conciliation Council. If there is a quality of unintended circumstances, we will quickly inform you that the Supreme Council has gathered and responded adequately to certain events. Thank you.
