ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:57]] Registered -393 393 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals from national deputies. People's deputies are invited to sign up for statements, messages, and suggestions. In the meantime, I'm going to announce the questions that have come. Is there no objection? Please record. Please sign up, your honors. Please state the name of the national MPs who are registered. A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Julius TIMOSHENKO to the President of Ukraine on non-compliance with the law enforcement authorities of the Donetsk Region with the Presidential Decree of 16 October 2003 “On serious shortcomings in the work of addressing citizens’ appeals by executive authorities and law enforcement authorities in the Donetsk region”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:23]] Z-62 Request not supported. Victor MUSIJAKI to the President of Ukraine on the order and deadline for the appointment of the Ukrainian National Deputy President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:52]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resolution of the telephone issues of the closed mine village. Red October of the city of Yenakiyeva. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating official decision-making procedures for designing the deployment of nuclear and radiation-threatening objects. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the formal review by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the parliamentary request for a grave violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[BOLOGA, YVANCHO, MIHOVI]] Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the Austrian-renewal work of the Berislav Pedagogical School of the Herson Region. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Novokahov local authority on the disposal of boiler No.6 and the failure of the city of Tavrian to provide central heating and hot water. Stepan HMARA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the application of measures to repeal the illegal Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 836 of 26 July 1996 on compensation payments to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster, as opposed to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster of 28 February 1991 and gravely violates the constitutional right of citizens to life, health and social protection. Mr. Andrija DERKAČA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the responsibility of officials for the impeccable conduct of an expert project on the construction of a nuclear fuel depot at the Chernobyl AES. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the consideration and approval of new innovation and investment projects in special economic zones and areas with special investment regimes. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the lack of market value of the rural garden for the value of the esteemed inventory office, the high state-of-the-art payment. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the mountain settlement of the village of Ganichi Tachiv district of Zakarpat. LUKYANKA’S lion to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of environmental legislation that have led to the destruction of the coastline of the Black Sea in the area of the Skadovian Herson region. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for delaying the Government's establishment of a new, well-founded tariff for payment of payment and delivery of pensions. Victor Tarana to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Zakarpat District State Administration, on the construction and consolidation of a dam on the River River to protect the village of Lipch in the Zakarpat region. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine for the establishment of a government commission to verify the failure of State programmes to combat diseases of mass distribution, the use of measures to threaten national security of Ukraine and the gene pool of the Ukrainian nation, the improper compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution in the area of health care by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and the implementation of State programmes to combat tuberculosis and cancer. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the compliance of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on measures to improve the efficiency of power management in Ukraine's legislation. Ms. Oleg Panasovsky and Ms. Anatolia NALIVAYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of gasification funds for the village of Debaltsevé Donetské region. MICHAEL SETINE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of pension differentiation and the increase in the minimum pension. Paul MATTHEWENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the work of drilling artesian wells in the northern areas of Ukraine, which were exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the reconstruction of the secondary school in the village of Jaszkowska District of Cherkas region. [[SYMONENKO, NICOLAENKA, SQUARE]] Igora Jeremeeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt from the State Budget-funded organizations before the opening of the Lvivgaz Shareholder Society. Andria POLITA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of debts to the disaster liquidators at the Chernobyl AES. Alexander THE Prime Minister of Ukraine for the settlement of the imbalance in pensions for military personnel who have been released before 1992 and for those who have retired since 1992. Anatolia KLIMINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of the abuse by the leadership of the Ukrainian State Customs Service. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rightfulness of efforts to reorganize the pharmacy network, which is jointly owned by the territorial communities of the Hersonian region, and the creation of the only district communal pharmaceutical company. VICTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine on the additional allocation of subsidies from the State budget for the implementation of measures for prejudice and the prevention of technological disasters in housing and utilities in 2004 to the Romani and Žitomir regions of the Žitomir region. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the negative consequences of the adoption and implementation of Presidential Decree No.1486 of 25 December 2003 on measures to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens and to normalize the vitality of the city of Mukachev Zacarpat. [[MIHOVI, HERASIMOV, AND OTHERS. Total 8 deputies]] Georgia KRUCHKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the legal status of the so-called “Parliamentary-Governmental Coalition”. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the absence on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of lists of National Deputies who supported the change of voting procedures and voted by hand in favour of amending the Constitution on the basis of which the people were deprived of the election of the President of Ukraine. [[JEWISH, WORKER, AND OTHERS. Total 4 deputies]] Vladimir DEMOCHINA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the expenses associated with the provision of benefits and grants to the population of the Hersonian region. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on compensation for agricultural stock associations for expenses incurred in the construction of socio-cultural objects for rural areas in the Herson region. Vladimir ANISTUKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the clarification of certain provisions of Ukrainian civil law in the application of facsimile copying of a handwritten signature. Anatolia GREZEVA to Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Kirilenko of Ukraine on the situation that took place in the former collective joint venture “Fowl” of the village of Mokrec of the Brovar district of Kyiv region regarding land and property relations. Anatolia PALIGARY to Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Klav of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the “Vertical Skipping Tree Complex” of the “Olchowatska” mine of the city of Jenakiyev. Group of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andrey Klav, on the issue of creating social tension on the AES as a result of the implementation of the “Programme for the Restructuring of the National Atomic Energy Company Energy Company Energoate”. [[SIX, ALEXIUM, RED]] Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitr Tobacco, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine on the critical situation that has taken place in recent years in the Kirovograd Regional Radio Company. Mr. Andria POLIETA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitr Tobacco, on the financial security of the Kirovograd City Centre for Social Services for Young People. Group of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the conduct of the auction and the sale of examination marks and the persecution of Professor Sitnik at the National University of Donetsk. [[THOMEN, ALIEN, BILORUS, AND OTHERS. Total 8 deputies]] Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Kljeva of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the provision of solid domestic fuel to retirees of closed mines in the territory of the 111st constituency. MICHELLE TO THE Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko, on the basis of a write-off to a parliamentary inquiry about problems in the cultivation of non-drug cannabis. Anatolia GREZEVA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko on the environmental threat to the Scadovian children's resort. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with the two-year trial of the criminal case against the head of the Preyaslav-Hmeljna Election Commission of Homić on the intentional failure to implement the decisions of the Preyaslav-Hmeljna Municipal Court of 29 March 2003 on the removal from the registration of a candidate for the post of city head and 4 April 2002 on the illegal decision of the Election Commission to establish the results of the elections in the part of the registration of the city head of Sokura on the basis of the crime envisaged in section 1 of article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the issue of improper inspection by the Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning violations of current legislation in the process of excluding the project institutes “Crimcomunproject” and “Crimeprojectreconstruction” from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation. Olega KARJOWA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on infringement of the rights of citizens in the property of the pie and privatization of housing in the Krynican district of Dnipropetrovsk and insufficient response of the district prosecutor to these violations. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the purpose of leading to bankruptcy the shoe factory of the closed stock company Gefest, Winnica. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney General of Ukraine in response to a previous request for a limited-liability “Energoprom” society. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the attack in Kiev on 7 November 2003 on the arrival of a group of young people from Ternopolska at a demonstration dedicated to the 86th anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with his complaint about the inaction of certain officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine in overseeing the authorities of research and investigation. Valeria Assadchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the preservation of state property and the protection of state property rights. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a crime committed by the Lieutenant Colonel of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region and for the refusal of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kirovograd district to investigate it. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the course of criminal proceedings following the fact that the so-called “open letter to the electorate” had been distributed, allegedly from the Ukrainian national deputy Yushchenka W.A. Victor BALOGA and John YVANCHO to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of the prosecutor of Mukachev, Mr. Kukurjak, and his inaction in ensuring compliance with existing legislation. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the double delay in the criminal investigation of the attack and beating of veterans of the Great Homeland War and the work of unknown attackers during the “Resurrection, Ukraine” campaign in Kiev on 6 February 2001. Igor REZNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ignoring the interests of citizens regarding the distribution of traffic routes in Odessa. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the longstanding burden on local law enforcement authorities in the Suma area on the protection of the rights of the farm family. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for gross disregard of the current Ukrainian legislation, the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens and failure to execute judicial decisions by officials of the Ostrozh District Department of State Executive Service of the Ostrozh district administration of justice in the province of Ravensk. [[RED, ALEXIUM, WIDE]] Mr. Mikoli KULCINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case involving the head of the “Ivanov-Selishtski” cooperative of the Globin region of Poltav region, which carried out self-containment of land rations. Georgia KRUCHKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of a criminal case based on the use of a bank account drawn up for a citizen of Kravczuk O.L. in the Swiss bank for the dissipation of state funds in a particularly large amount. Aleksandra TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the city of Stahanova Luganov. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal sale of property from the “Zara” mine auction of the state-owned “Snow Anthracite” company. Istwana HYDOŠA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of the function of the public education school in the 1st degree with the Hungarian language of education in Hust Zakarpatsk district. Dmitry SANDLER to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the Lviv Railway. Mikhaila RODIOWA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the prosecutor’s office in the district of Kyiv. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the budget programme for the purchase of growth hormone for children suffering from pelvic nanism in the region of Rožnetiv, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Ms. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the provision of information on the conduct of an auction of examinations at the University of Donetsk. BORISS TO THE U.S. Environment Minister regarding the construction of a bacteriological laboratory in the Obolon district of Kyiv. Mr. Timoshenko to the Minister for Education and Science of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the appointment of Mr. Nechayev to the post of Director of the Krivorazian Economic Institute of the Kyiv National Economic University. Mr Mikoli KRAVKAN to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the violation of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” by the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine by Anatoly the Jury. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the violation of the law on the collection and payment of hospital letters by the collective company Bilšovnik of Kirovograd. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the removal of residents of the closed military town of Lubic-1 in connection with the liquidation of the A-3330 military in 2003. Vladimir Petrenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory execution of the decision of the Kovpak District Court of Sumi to collect debts on the salary of the closed stock company "Summebli". Mr. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the status of a participant in hostilities. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the financial crisis in maternity home No. 2 of Kirovgrad, which resulted from the use of medical equipment, tools, and motor vehicles. Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Science and Education of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the resurgence of traditional sports and combat uniting and applied martial arts of the Ukrainian Cossack “Spas” and “Fighting Gopak” in the civil, military and law enforcement education system, as well as in the power structures of the State. [[RED, MANCHULEN, AND OTHERS.]] TO THE U.S. minister of health, Alexander’s health, regarding the comparison of cancer patients with the first disability group. YEUGENA JOLLY to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the violation of housing law while evicting residents of a military town in the village of Gorenič, Kyiv district. Dmitry RUDKOVSKH to head the National Property Fund of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Institute of Postgraduate Education for Home Service Workers. Mary MARKUS to the head of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission of Ukraine in response to the refusal to respond to the request for a review of compliance with the securities and stock market legislation in the Open Shareholder Company “Institute for Complex Transport Problems” during the holding of non-ordered shareholders’ meetings on February 19, 2002. JANUARY to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the release of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sergey Shorty. VICTOR BALOGA to the head of the State Committee on Religious Affairs in connection with discrimination against Zakarpathian District Administration of the Church Communities of the Church of the Roman Catholic Church. MICHELLE TO THE Head of the State Committee on Physical Culture and Sports on the organization of the work of the Working Committee on State Affairs of the Association for Sports Dance in Ukraine. Alexander MASSENKA to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the need to take steps to protect the legitimate rights of the Karlovy V.P. team. JANUARY to the head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the provision of accommodations arranged according to the living conditions of a deported family in connection with a child’s severe illness. YEUGENA HYERNIKA to the head of the government of the Open Stock Exchange Association of Ukraine for the improper response to the MP’s request to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the payback of employees of the Open Shareholders Association for the capital repair of wells in the city of the Valley of Ivano-Frankiv region. Eugene Kirilczuk, Igor Jeremeev and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the construction of a high-pressure underwater gas pipeline to the village of the city-type Olik of the Kivertsi district of Volinsk. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the illegal compensation of VAT PP "Papyrus - 2002". Dear colleagues, all requests have been made. In accordance with the Rules, I hereby announce the entry of Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich into the Democratic Initiative Group. Let's move on to the performances. Please fill in the name of the national deputies who have signed up. Gregory Bondarenko faction, "Regions of Ukraine", prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u2	Gregory Bondarenko, national constituency number 92, Kiev, faction of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. How we did not resist, and unemployment came to us. It is not possible to get rid of this phenomenon. It is wise to help people to minimize their negative influence. And it turns out it's not easy, it's hard sometimes. The rural electorate bothered me with questions when you stopped paying hard-working, healthy men-darmoids? It was so baptized in the villages of the unemployed. In order to get a better understanding of the matter, he studied and commissioned himself to study the problem with his assistants. And here's the thing. Volodarsky’s showy area, with the highest unemployment rate in Kiev, is 14 percent, the most typical village in Kosovo. During the past year, there were more than 30 people in employment. In view of the small village of Kosovo and its population, as everywhere else, the elderly, are alerted by such an unemployed group. The salt, as it were called, is not that. In Kosovo, people are constantly brought to work in the local farm -- when 30 people, when they are 15, when they are 10. They drive from the center, from the Carpathians, the Ternopolis, and other cities of Ukraine, to the barrels, to the harvest, to the farms. The situation in many other villages is similar. People and leaders especially curse the Employment Service instead of gratitude. There are reasons for that. And I want to emphasize this: the so-called "unemployed" day and night are bumping into the fields and farms, picking up the lost ducks of corn or the heads of sunflowers, digging potatoes and so on. But the fields, you know, aren't the Kiev supermarkets where every square meter is the security service. So the folded ones don't fit in the cages, they don't need a cheat, they don't need a machine. On the farm at night, they take out the nutrients, the feed. They also told me about this jobless thing: land pie doesn't want to rent, it processes itself, it's good. He's got a tractor, two trucks, another technique, and he's got unemployed people. In the meantime, his earnings are many times higher than that of the employees of the employment center. Just to make sure I'm a busy man. But, of course, the situation needs to be corrected. Experts believe that it is necessary to act in such a way that you do not always rent a piece of land without giving up, owning yourself — you do not have the right to account in the employment service. If the average monthly income from the rent of a pie is higher than the minimum wage, it should also be at the expense of the unemployed. As a result, appropriate changes to the Employment of the Population Act should be made and the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers should be linked to them, which were very much the case. Since government structures are best placed to deal with these issues, the necessary legislative and regulatory changes are also to be proposed by the government. And then, please consider my statement as a matter of interest to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u3	I'm asking our technical services: three minutes out -- turn off the microphone. Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u4	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u5	Lilia Grigorovitch, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u6	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, distinguished voters of Ukraine! The main gain of power over the past three years is stability. It is stability that determines the best interests of the Ukrainian people and stability that determines their prospects. Before the official media can declare these stability, I will allow myself to analyze its composition. So the territory of Ukraine is 603,000 square miles. So far, we have not lost a single island. Population: Not 52, not 50, but 47 and a half million. But given that more than 7 million today are in forced labour migration, fewer than 40 million citizens live in Ukraine today. They consistently receive the lowest average wage in Europe of 205 dollars and the lowest in Europe and the SND, with a minimum of $9 - 10 not even taking into account pension reform. So the steady percentage of the poor in Ukraine is between 90 and 85 percent. The budget, which was accepted by stable violations, brought a whole series of irregularities, as said yesterday, when the tax burdens changed, and I'll say, "fracture." Bread or price breaker, diaper wreck, drug wreck, pension reform wreck. In turn, other stable wreckages and priced meat products and utilities. In view of that, I would like to stress another steady trend. Today, Ukrainian pensioners, who also have low living standards, still have major problems with the fact that certain clan structures, the stumbling of law enforcement agencies are practically "smoking" and taking housing from such pensioners. An example of this is the January 29 publication in the Facts newspaper, where a worker of Kiev, who worked for 33 years at the Arsenal factory, received an apartment at the Forest of Ukraine, was practically thrown out of his apartment. The door was welded, and the false actions of the law enforcement agencies allowed this man to stay on the street for two years, and his son was stable behind that door for 20 months without any social and legal aid. The situation was unlocked by the Women's Union of Ukraine and the Victor Yushchenka constituency, which is taking on the legal protection of such people, and today calls on the government to develop or improve the legal conduct or conduct of such situations. We're not against stability, we're against stability. If Yashchenka's government were to work in a stable way, we'd be talking today about 650-700 dollars of average pay. But stability that serves the corporate interests and stability that serves the national.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u7	Yes, please, Kemenash, non-factionable. What? But we agreed, I asked. A woman would have to give and an MP, but we agreed that after three minutes we'd shut it down. Well, that's not my preference. Stones, please. None. The oil man instead of Yvchenk, the faction of our Ukraine. Peter Olinick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! We Ukrainian national deputies are concerned about the increase in crime in Ukraine. Today, there is virtually a rise in the law enforcement system and criminality. Hundreds of appeals come from Lviv, Zakarpatski, Donetsk, Ternopil, Lugansk, Frankiv region. As Ukrainian national deputies, 10 of us, with the help of the head of the district council, invited the head of the master’s district administration to the meeting. the areas and supervisors of the law enforcement authorities. But unfortunately, they didn't show up, they ignored, they only responded to the President of Ukraine, who had a similar meeting in Kiev four days later. Today, persecution follows political motives, and today the deputies of all levels of power are being kicked out of opposition factions. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we saw the city chief's office in Zakarpatt being guarded by the head of the 6th government of the Zakarpat district and the leader of the criminal group. The situation was similar in the town of Mosticka Lviv district. There is Mr. Homík, who is now appointed head of the tax administration of the Lviv region. He has the mistrust of the Lviv City Council. He's got a criminal case, where he's got 200 grand worth of flashbacks. But he is appointed head of the tax administration of the Lviv region. Today we see that spontaneous corruption, the spontaneous increase in the law enforcement system, is being tolerated by regional authorities today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will not hide from history, we will answer to the Ukrainian people and we will answer to the Lord God. So I'm counting, the situation in Ukraine today is extremely catastrophic. Ukraine becomes a totalitarian criminal state, and I'm making an official proposal: to hold parliamentary assemblies next week, to invite the heads of the law enforcement structures of Ukraine's ministries and to discuss the situation that is in our country today. If we don't do that, we're going to get basically an uncontrollable situation in the near future where it's not a public authority, where it's not a law enforcement system, where it's not going to rule the law, it's going to rule the criminal, it's a crime that's already in practice now. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm resubmitting this proposal. And I think that all honest MPs who care about the fate of the Ukrainian people, the fate of the Ukrainian honest business, should support me and we should do this work next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u9	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. A statement by the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in connection with the illegal actions of the government against pensioners. The beginning of the pension reform once again demonstrated the unprofessionalism, irresponsibility, and antinational nature of the governing regime. Instead of being promised by the highest social justice officials, most pensioners received a pitiful pension allowance of between four and ten. After the minimum wage has been reduced from 237 to 205, the price of bread, other food, medicine, and utilities. This seems to be an outright abuse. The picture is complemented by a lack of public understanding of the mechanism for the recalculation of pensions, a turnout in the local offices of the Pension Fund, and a disregard for the attitude of officials toward pensioners. Not only did the Yanuković government not succeed in organizing normal services and information for pensioners but it also conducted an illegal audit of Ukrainian legislation. On November 20, last year, the Cabinet of Ministers passed decree 1783, reducing the average wage for 2002 from 376 to 306 dollars. Since this indicator is in accordance with the law, article 43 of the State Pension Insurance Act is used in a formula to determine the size of pensions, such actions have led to a significant reduction in the level of pensions. The "Our Ukraine" faction has already taken a number of steps to remedy the government's guilt. We have lodged a complaint with the Cave Court of Kiev demanding that the above - mentioned decision be repealed. Members of the faction submitted to Parliament bills for the Government’s Day on Pension Reform, which the Supreme Council does not want to vote on, as well as for amendments to the National Pension Insurance Act. The "Our Ukraine" faction requires the executive to take immediate action to restore the rights of millions of Ukrainian pensioners, namely. First, cancel the illegal positions of Cabinet Order No. 1783 of November 20, 2003. Second, recalculate all pensions, starting on January 1, 2004, and ensure that they are paid to pensioners without interruption. Third, to break the criminal case with the aim of attracting the guilty to criminal liability for the illegal underrepresentation of pensions. We assure all pensioners who have suffered from anti-national actions of power that we will never leave them alone in opposition to this authority. If our legal requirements are not met, we leave the right to apply the constitutional measures of civil authority and call on citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u11	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u12	Thank you. Would you pass it on to the head, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u13	Please, Sergey Headate. Yeah? Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I've already announced. Now Valentina Seminouk and all, I've already announced and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, I ask one minute of procedure before I go to the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u15	Please come in. Please speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u16	I'm asking from the procedure to give me one minute before I move on from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u17	Please, three minutes, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u18	These are different things. There's a procedure, there's a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u19	If you'll excuse me for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u20	You're breaking the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u21	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u22	I'm asking you to give me one minute of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u23	Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u24	Then I ask you to stop the timer. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to stop the timer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u25	Speak of what you are asking for incomprehensible things.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u26	I demand it first. Today, the issue is the head of the delegation in PARJE Olijnik. [[I wanted to speak out of order first, then out of question.]] The consideration of this matter, to my deep conviction, provides for discussions or statements by other members of the delegation. Because the head of the delegation cannot represent my point of view and my position. The delegation is composed of representatives of different factions, and each faction has its own position. So in this question, I'm asking after the speech of the Oilynik to give the opportunity to speak to the members of the delegation who represent the other factions. That's the first one. The other one. Dear Mr. Head, why a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the Ukrainian question has not been issued so far. Why was it not handed out when the so - called next session took place on Tuesday? It was the resolution that the resolution should have known the MPs before voting, because it was these things that were involved in the resolution. And so far there is no resolution. And Ukrainian MPs don't know it's been touched by them, to the Supreme Council. Perhaps they changed some point of view at least at one point. Why are you hiding the resolution from both the MPs, both the public and the citizens and the whole society? This responsibility, Mr. Head, lies with you. And last of all, you wrote a letter to Scheder and Schwimmer, to Genesec and President PARE, you say we're moving towards European standards. Mr. Head, one moment. The D.A.'s office. I want the businessmen to think, and I asked this question on my committee, and I said, "Please tell me, who can break a criminal case against the Attorney General in Ukraine?" On the committee, he fell with his shoulders: no one. A criminal case may be brought against the deputies, against the judges, against the opposition, and against the Attorney General, what would the investigator who was under his jurisdiction violate the criminal case? And you, and first of all, the businessmen, didn't lie down on the asphalt? And you support the return of communism, the Stalin High Prosecutor's Office, by expanding the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This, Mr. Head, is not a European standard, this is a return to the darkens, during the Stalin regime. Therefore, we need not deceive society; we need to give true information and to MPs who may not understand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! As far as the recommendations are concerned, the honourable people's deputies, when they are officially given to the Supreme Council, I will officially send them to every national MP, all factions, all groups. The official document of the Supreme Council was not received. And I think you know very well that the document is being sent out officially. Once again, I say official. So, honourable national deputies, I announce Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u28	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the distinguished Presidency! First of all, I want to speak to our voters and to the councils of different levels, and especially to two powerful public organizations, such as the council of cities association, this is Mr. Omelchenko and the councils of different levels, rural, rural and urban councils, this is to Mr. Slys. I'm especially talking to you. I'm very sorry that, as a member of the Supreme Council yesterday, I failed to prove to the representatives of the government that the Law on Municipal Property should be accepted and acted. Because today, without adopting this law, a criminal legal field is primarily created to extend the communal property that should serve the territorial communities. It's for the Act on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. We speak and the President claims, and the Cabinet of Ministers program tells us that we have chosen the European principle of state development. But please tell me, if we're speaking on the basis of a 1991 Presidential decree, that we're bringing our legislation into line with the Council of Europe standards. If we're in 1996 when we're in this room, we've kept the representative bodies on board. We ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We have to follow it. And today, everything is being done on the part of the majority, the Cabinet of Ministers, so that the Law of Public Property doesn't work. That is, the council has no material basis to function functionally and directly in the performance of their parliamentary duties. Today, the members of the Supreme Council have left, have denied members of the local councils the right to govern the respective territories. All of this is done for, first of all, I declare it officially as the head of the Special Monitoring Commission. The trend is made corrupt in this way. An object from state property is transferred to a utility. They decide to sell without the right of control on the part of the Supreme Council, i.e. to make decisions, to sell at no cost. Money goes to most of the pockets, not the local budget. And then we're talking about, there's nothing to count on with the salary, the pension, that kind of thing. I want to speak to the deputies at various levels, to all Ukrainian citizens. And it is correct that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have asked the question of publishing which of the deputies voted against this law. I mean, most people didn't vote, except for one Agrarian party. I mean, that's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already taken the time for 12 minutes more, so let's finish the speeches of the national MPs and move on to the next question. Information on the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to South Africa in the January 2004 session is being discussed. Dear colleagues, your attention is on such a schedule, may I have your attention, please? First, a report, a statement by the head of the Permanent Delegation Boris Illich Oilynik - in 20 minutes, a question to the rapporteur - 10 minutes, and then, within 15 minutes, a speech by the National MPs. What other suggestions will be made regarding the procedure for considering the matter? You got it? Thank you. Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u30	I believe that this procedure cannot be accepted at all because the issue has been addressed in the Council of Europe. It's a very serious question for the state to just give it information and put a twig on it. This must be a full-scale review, with factions speaking, of the decisions taken by the Council of Europe. And these decisions are to be taken by the Supreme Council, and action is being taken. This is a serious approach. And what you're doing right now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is to set up a bird and inform the Council of Europe that all the steps have been taken. It's, you know, honest lie and dishonesty on your part. So, for example, I cannot agree with this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u31	Dear colleague, if I were you, I would advise you and ask you to keep your word. I'm acting according to the Rules. The rule provides for the consideration of the matter for 45 minutes. You're going to have another proposal -- make a proposal, we're going to vote. And so to speak, you're going to learn a little bit about culture. Once again, on the Conciliation Council, the question was thus proposed. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u32	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Before I start this question, I'd like to propose to us, and I'm going to my colleagues, to assign Vladimir Mikhailovich a telegram of sympathy, but maybe send a telegram of sympathy to those who suffered the terrorist attack in Moscow this morning. Indeed, dozens of people have died, suffered. May we, the Supreme Council, extend our condolences to those who have suffered this tragedy. We will continue to discuss the matter, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor. I already did it on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Please, someone will determine. There's the Head, everybody can't go right now, and then Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u34	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, not 15 minutes after Boris Illich, but to be able to speak physically to the factions represented in the delegation, not 15 minutes. It's not arithmetic, it's politics, it's the political position of the bloc. And the second. The resolution refers to the Supreme Council. And the right Assadchev, that we should have considered, is our duty to consider the resolution and to make a decision on it. Because we need action from the Supreme Council. So there was little information, there was a discussion of the question and a draft decision on it, and the ruling was voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u35	Make a draft decision, we'll vote on it. Please, Yuri Klukkowski. And let's do it. Let's make some suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u36	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think the problem is really not as simple as some people want it to be. And if, let's say, today, we're going to turn this information here into an attempt to rematch the defeat at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, then I think that's how it's going to be seen in the world co-workers, not just in Europe, but around the world. Today, Ukraine cannot live behind an iron curtain, perhaps someone would like to, but it will succeed. So if we don't have the official parliamentary assembly resolution today, let's take a preliminary look at this today. And then we're going to make our own resolutions, with the full-time debates, in order to make the official decision in the appropriate official resolution. And in addition, today there can be no unilateral information, at least the two sides that have been represented must be represented.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote an offer to support the proposal that after Boris Illich's speech, 20 minutes, 10 minutes -- answers to questions, give all the factions a chance to speak. Please vote. I'd like you to determine by vote. To - 125. The decision is not taken. The procedure provided for in the Rules remains. 45 minutes. Please, Boris Ilchi. The factions, please. Please, Boris Illihu. I say, pick your words. You're a poet. Do you have a jargon like that? Please, Boris Illihu.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I'm about to give without comments, no grades, just a chronicle. On January 26-30, the first part of the Paris session took place in Strasbourg, with the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council in the composition of Oliynik, Rahanski, Gladys, Gladia, Glaciers, Carpov, Klimpush, Kostenka, Pisarenko, Rybak, Simonenka, Šibka. Among the issues of order of the day, and there were almost one and a half dozen and all of our delegations participated in the discussion. "The political crisis in Ukraine" and "Terrorism is a threat to democracy." Both in an emergency debate. On the morning of January 26, at the Paris Bureau meeting, I noted on an ad hoc basis that the rapid inclusion of the constitutional crisis in Ukraine into the agenda and even on an urgent basis is not very productive because we have not yet exhausted the internal reserve for understanding between the confrontational and, while you are already on the table, as a parliamentary crisis. I was supported by a Polish colleague, Yuvinsky. President PARJE - Peter Schiderts further informed him about the receipt of a letter from the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but he suggested moving further discussions into the plenary session, which also began at 3 p.m. after the opening of the debate on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian issue, Anatoly Rahansky suggested that the monitoring committee's decision on 7 January be declared illegal because he felt that it had been approved in violation of the rules of procedure. The proposal was rejected in the vote. Simonenko added a number of arguments and suggested that the Ukrainian question be removed from the agenda. This offer was also rejected. So the constitutional crisis in Ukraine remained the order of the day. Members of the permanent delegation Gladys, Klimpus, Pisarenko, Rahanski, Rybak, Simonenko were formally amended to the draft Assembly Resolution on the Political Crisis in Ukraine. We also assisted delegations headed by the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, who was also appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs of Grishenko. The delegation was working in Strasbourg from January 28th to January 29th to clarify the position on constitutional reform. On January 29, before discussing our question, Alexander Karpov, according to the rules of procedure, called on the chairman to check for a quorum in the session room. The proposal did not get the required number of votes. Hanna Severinsen, referring to the report, quoted me as saying, "What is happening in Ukraine is not an internal matter, because the State has made certain commitments that are currently being discussed." They regretted that there had not been a major open and open discussion in the implementation of constitutional reform. Because making changes to the Constitution is not just changing the emphasis, it's filling the document with a new substance. Severinsen stressed that, according to the Venice Commission, constitutional reform is not a step forward, but rather a step back. Nineteen Assembly dignitaries, members of our permanent delegation, and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Constantine Grishenko, participated in the discussion of the reports. What they said, say Sergey Petrovich the Headman, he might say today, I'm leaving him, I'm going after the transcript. According to Kostenko, the reason for the political crisis is the attempt to change the way in which the President of Ukraine was elected before the presidential elections, the methods for making parliamentary changes to the Constitution of Ukraine are anti-constitutional. There are no rights defined by law in the opposition. He expressed his hope that PARJE would use all its means to defend democracy in Ukraine and would not allow the people to choose the authorities. In his statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Grishenko stressed that with the true aim of constitutional reform in Ukraine, it is the intention to strike a balance between the three branches of government and to guarantee respect for democratic rights and freedoms, as in any democratic society, any change has its supporters and opponents. The minister expressed the hope that the Assembly would adopt a balanced decision that would help to find the necessary compromise in the Ukrainian Parliament and society. Pisarenko stated that the political forces that initiated it were opposed to constitutional reform, but with the hope of winning their representative in future presidential elections, they were no longer interested in holding it. Karpov's non-convincing crisis in Parliament is provoked by the opposition's strong way of withdrawing the voting equipment, blocking the right of most to discuss changes to the Constitution. Although there was no reason for this, all the bills received a positive conclusion from the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Orest Klimpus denied the existence of a political crisis in Ukraine, noted that it was only a conflict of political forces in parliament. According to Rybak, reporters were very quick to criticize the opposition for violating the Supreme Council’s regulations. In his view, the resolution does not draw closer, but rather separates the majority and the opposition. Anatoly Rahansky noted that the monitoring process was used mainly to support the opposition, only to harm the authorities ’ organizations. He then urged the deputies not to vote in favour of the document. According to Zvaric, the changes proposed in the Constitution run counter to the sentiments of society, as 90 percent of the population of Ukraine opposes the election of the President by the Supreme Council. Most of the speakers, in fact, supported that point of view, that it was rather a parliamentary conflict. The Assembly had 30 amendments to the draft resolution, 10 of which had been adopted, so the draft resolution had not been substantially amended. PARE then decided, I quote, recent violations of the Supreme Council voting procedure run counter to Ukraine’s obligations under article 3 of the Council of Europe statute. Therefore, if attempts are made to push political reform through changes to the basic law through unforeseeable legislation and the Constitution or if Ukraine is unable to guarantee free and fair elections on 31 October this year, the Assembly may object to the authorization of the Ukrainian delegation in accordance with rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and request the Committee of Ministers to suspend Ukraine's membership in the Council of Europe in accordance with article 8 of the Statute of the Council of Europe. That's how the chronicle of events is. In the end, I say that the new permanent representative in Strasbourg, Shevchuk, and the secretariat of the permanent delegation of Loxhin, Korniychuk, Piljav, have provided our work properly despite extreme stress. It is worth noting that the Information Office of the Supreme Council, which organized a rather extensive presentation of the work of the permanent delegation. That's it. We'll give you a full report in due course. So all I did was set a timeline, no comment. I've never allowed myself to have any reckless words to damage her reputation. At home, it is a habit to say what is real, not what is desired. So please listen to me. Dear colleagues, when I was my age, I had seen so much of it that I thought you would never surprise me again. Guy, I'm so childish! What our Constitutional Court has brought to the world has eliminated from the history of Ukraine the entire fifth anniversary of the presidency of Leonid Danilovich and, therefore, us with you, beyond the limits of earthly civilization. Even the mystification of the so - called referendum and the subtitle is not in line with this infernal decision. It's the same unless Gogol had the moon stolen by the devil or the Cannotic Witch of the Founding Flower. But to the Ukrainian people, the truth is insurmountable, he has not yet been in his tragic and heroic history, he will also survive us, forgive me, the Constitutional, after which he no longer has anything to fear and the "fearful judgment," since there will be judgment, not according to the concepts, but in truth and justice, that is to say, the righteous. sinners. No less fantastic was going on in Parliament when the next reform was being voted on, forgive me, who by the hands, who by the fists, and by the "both the slaves": that the opposition, which in the artist's style thundered the apparatus, that the majority, who voted and counted the votes out of all the regulations, in turn, testifying that all the ideological and patriotic cosmetics almost almost covered up the struggle for power, and so loud that they heard it all the way through Europe. Well, Europe isn't our first time. We'd figure out in our own home, where things got so mixed up, that, let's say, the faction brothers ended up on the side of those we call oligarchs at all the intersections. I find it increasingly difficult to explain to the public similar tactics. So I'm not going to take part in these maneuvers as a Ukrainian communist, but I've never been called into power, especially in mixed maneuvers. I want to tell all the beekeepers. One of the few, or perhaps the only, who would now have the right to claim the presidency is a deeply respected great scientist, scholar Valerius Andiyovich Smolius. Why? But because he's an expert in the history of the Middle Ages. But Valérie Andriyovich, as a true scientist, has the skill to speak up on this subject, does not want to do the right thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u40	Dear Boris Illihu, in the media for several days it was very detailed that one member of the Ukrainian delegation allowed himself to vote for his absent neighbour — that is, he specifically transferred our domestic experience to the main European Parliamentary Hall. [[I'm using the word "specific"]] After all, what happened and really did? And I have a second question. Please tell me in such a concise format. What was the position of the Russian delegation on the issue of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u41	With regard to the first question, let’s say our practice is not so bad: it could be passed on to European scopes. But I was not present in this situation, so I cannot speak out of voice as to how it happened. There may have been witnesses and they will tell. Regarding the position of the Russian delegation, she will speak with tolerance, ironically appealing to me in some way, Rogozin said, "Who are you asking here?"and so forth. So I'm fine. The United Left, as always, were for Ukraine, there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u42	Valentin Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Solomatin, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u44	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, holy land of Kyiv Dear Boris Illihu! You said a very nice phrase that you did all you could to keep the reputation of Ukraine from being damaged. Everyone in the hall, and not only in the hall, took it with great pleasure. And my question is: everything we have is a Euro-euro, a Euro-bender, etc., and you don't think it's hindering the reputation of Ukraine's presence in our ranks of Euro-laboratoryists from what we call ours. Please give me your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u45	Well, the point is, dear colleague, that the Council of Europe modeled the Supreme Council on a fractional biological basis, each speaking on behalf of a group with a view to vision. Well, for example, I'm raised in that system, when, let's say, I have to protect the honor of my country, I'm not trying to say that my words are used against, let's say, Ukraine, but that doesn't mean that my model is optimal. Each one chooses according to his own preferences and his or her worldly position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u46	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u47	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Boris Illich, I would like to thank you very much for your frank and honest analysis of the events that took place at the Council of Europe. You gave such a wise and honest analysis that we did in Parliament, putting away who was with the oligarchs, why they became with them, and they separated themselves from it. I'd like to thank you for that. And here's my question, Boris Ilchi. A stenographic name could be given to how the members of the delegation voted in favour of the decision of PARJE itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u48	I can't say because there's a secret vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u49	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u50	Please give the word to Sergey the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u51	Sergey the Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u52	Dear Boris Illihu, in view of the disinformation by the Chief of the Supreme Council and the deputies, and society as a whole that he did not receive the official text of the resolution, please explain to the Head of the Supreme Council that this official text was available on Friday of last week when he was accepted on Thursday. And that the secretariat of the official delegation has been in control for a long time. And yesterday, Boris Illihu, you and I held a press conference where journalists were handed out. And that the Head of the Supreme Council doesn't have to wait for Shider to send him. And for this there is an appropriate regime, and it is the official duty of the Head of the Supreme Council to obtain a timely resolution on Friday and accordingly as Head of the Supreme Council to act. Isn't that right, Boris Illich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u53	You've expressed your point of view. Sergey Petrovich, I don't know the details, but there's a working translation, and there's an official translation. Maybe. The head of the Supreme Council was waiting for the official one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u54	I want to say again, my fellow countrymen, as they address their fellow countrymen. The official document, apart from the unofficial documents that I've always received in the project, and so forth. Calm down! I didn't get the document from the Council of Europe. This morning, I received a report from the head of the delegation with the addition of all the documents. I'd like to ask Sergey Petrovich the Head to adhere to basic human ethics. Please, Hellcat. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u55	Dear Boris Ilic, there are many people in this room who treat you with great respect. I'm interested in your personal attitude on such matters. First. How objective do you think our European colleagues have conducted an investigation into the situation in Ukraine? The second is from the first. How objectively has the issue been addressed in Strasbourg, and how objectively has it been? And the last. You don't think there's even a conflict of ideas in the Supreme Council, not to mention all over Ukraine. There is a conflict of people, and if we all put up with each other for a little while, many problems will fall apart.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u56	I'm taking your last phrase like estaphet, and I'm totally on your side. We have to solve these conflict situations at home. The Council of Europe acted in an orderly manner. She's got a signal. She didn't start alone. And at the signature of the heads of opposition factions or what they name themselves and with the signatures of other deputies. And all of this is presented in an orderly manner at the Monitoring Committee. We have reporters. We could very seriously deny that we have a special attention that sometimes goes from observation to supervision, but unfortunately, we are under monitoring. We haven't fulfilled all the commitments that we're supposed to make in two or three years, we're doing the ninth year. So especially if I sin on the prejudice of the Council of Europe, I would not dare, for it is with dignity that I must accept not only victory but also defeat. However, I am still standing here, and, in principle, I have not only agreed with Winsky, because we have not yet exhausted the internals to which you call, the reserves at home, or the correct order of terrorism is the threat of democracy and the "parliamentary crisis in Ukraine." Well, it's true that people die every day, we don't have, thank God. I think it was possible, because in January, social and political life is not over, we haven't started, we haven't given the president's campaign away, maybe they'd better watch it in April, and when it's put back in April, it's also giving me the impression that we have some special attention that we're certainly proud of, because we've been in the middle of Europe for a few years and we've been telling them how we live and they're proud of us. We love to learn, but we do not like sharing. Of course, every state does.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u57	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u58	Igor Shurma, faction of the united Social Democrats. Boris Illihu, thank you very much for the objective explanation of the chronology of those events, but I would like to ask you one more thing. The whole thing is that apart from the Supreme Council deputies who are in the Hall today, there is a large audience of Ukrainian citizens who have heard something happening in Europe, but far from always being able to have an objective assessment, because the vast majority of people who have been treated patriotically refer here to one of the deputies who has been actively running in a blue shirt on the Supreme Council, and today takes some ununderstanding position. So I have a few questions that would be purely statistical and give people the following information. How many delegates there are in PARJE is the first question. How much did the discussion take? How many non - Ukrainian deputies spoke about the matter, and they spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u59	Looks like a full set of 310. The audience was at our home, at the start of stage 180. We finished the decision seems to be about 49 or so, minus 76. 46 voted in favour. But that's perfectly normal in their rules. It's normal in their rules. They clearly follow the rules. Just like you and I are here on the Supreme Council. Sterile.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u60	Yes, Boris Illihu, thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, we have another 20 minutes, Boris Illich has saved to discuss it. Please have the names of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Karmazin, prepare Igor Ostrash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u61	The Party of Fatherland Defenders, the Solidarity of Victor Yushchenka's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to know that there are more than 100 deputies in this room right now. They're migrating. Although there was 393 on the board. And where is Karpov, who asked, how many people in the European Hall? Why doesn't he count now and why he won't report it to the speaker, and he's not shagging the President like that, and I don't know God, because he's not in the audience right now. And so pervasive of the Ukrainian people, Europe condemned everything that is done in Ukraine after the rape of the Constitution. Europe has condemned anything that does not fit with civilized approaches, because the main issue of political reform has been the pro-presidential majority’s desire to allow today’s President illegally, thirdly, to elect the President of Ukraine, to violate the constitutional right to the universal election of the President, to change and deploy forces and to the fully-managed Constitutional Court, completely expelling judges elected by the assembly of judges. Here's what happened and what then, who made the conclusions. What have we concluded from the decision that Europe condemned us and the political crisis that took place? The situation that followed the so-called adoption and the vote on December 24 could emerge by recalling that disgraceful document that was sent to the Constitutional Court and re-voting all three draft laws and the draft on unacceptableness and exclusion from the draft issue of the election of the President in the Supreme Council and other violations that had been allowed. But unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not go that way, but they announced the next session. His illegal actions, in particular those of the Supreme Council, were explained by the failure of article 83, part 2, of the Constitution, which refers to successive sessions. Having forgotten that there is a part of the first part, forgetting that the announcement of the convening of the extraordinary session had to be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine no later than three days before its opening with the order of the day session. And you all forgot. Boris Illich, I'm so sorry that you just told me today and who did. Why didn't you tell me about those lessons? And then, including the political power you represent, she voted to legitimize everything that happened then. So, honourable people's deputies, I'd like us to draw conclusions for ourselves, I'd like you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to draw conclusions for yourself. Let us re-vote and not violate the right of a national MP to enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u62	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u63	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Indeed, one of the main features of a democratic state is the democratic transfer of power. And in 1994, we had this democratic transfer of power. Unfortunately, today there is no Leonid Kravchuk who actually applied to this to happen. But he's on the other side of the barricade today. And then this democratic transfer of power opened the way for us to the Council of Europe. Sadly, the situation today is repeating itself in the opposite direction. The fight for a new presidency, in practice, is transforming the possibility of Ukraine being expelled from the Council of Europe after or even before the 2004 presidential elections. We realize that the main purpose of power today is very simple: how do the Kerchen canines in the tomato preserve the active regime in power forever. Even more precisely, do everything possible to prevent him from becoming president of the opposition, of the Ukrainian political opposition. And we understand very well that now, after what happened, the main goal will be to do something else, namely, do everything in order, without really winning the next presidential election, to maximize the President's authority and make him such an English queen. I think we had a chance to save our faces in some way, and this could have been done, really, by following procedures, by observing the Constitution during an off-the-shelf session, which is what Deputy Carmazin was already talking about. We could, indeed, do this with discussion, indeed, so that the opposition would have the opportunity to express its point of view, because the basic sign of democracy is that democratic procedures are being followed and, of course, the right of opposition to express its point of view. I understand very well that this opportunity, which, by the way, is also presented in the epistolic genre of the Supreme Council, we have not taken advantage of. And today, again, we look unpopular before the Council of Europe. Finally, I would like to say that we have even more serious problems today in connection with the next election. We see that virtually in the next CBC there will be no opposition representatives. We see that the voter register is not ready today. And this will also be a real reason to say that the next elections in Ukraine are non-democratic, and so, to make it so practical that in Ukraine there will be an active regime, and there will be no investment and new jobs, and our Ukrainians will have to go abroad. In addition, Mukachevo, Gongadze, and freedom of speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u64	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I'd like to start with the question that I've asked the esteemed Boris Ilich: "Euro-coloborationism" and "Euro-coloborationists" in our environment. It's on the verge of national betrayal. Can we agree that certain representatives of Ukrainian politics and Ukrainian society are running to Europe and the United States every day for political guidance and grants? Or are we free if we have over 600 funds, centers, institutions, so-called grantors, whose famous institutions, primarily George Soros's fund, provides hundreds of millions of dollars. And secondly, the representatives of the German institutions. What kind of eulogism is this? Remember those who betray Ukraine and shout that they are the greatest cowards for the fate of Ukraine’s daughter! Sadly, we are not free. We are in the clutches of a foreign overseas state and its local manuals. But I assure our people, I belong to the political power that proclaims: the Jew will not pass! Be together, my respectable compatriots with the Communist Party of Ukraine, and we will win just as our predecessors did in the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution and in the years of the Great Homeland War, when it was our one-party most devoted to the protection of our Fatherland that our one-parties were on the battlefields of the Great Homeland War with a party ticket in their pocket. So I want you to unite around the Communist Party of Ukraine! The best candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine is Peter Simonenko. I'm talking to the centrists. Only in this case will we conquer this shameful invasion that Ukraine is suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u66	Anatoly Rahansky, faction of the Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs", "Trug Ukraine". Prepare the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u67	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Representatives in Parliament, in the people of 45 countries of Europe today are members of the PARJE, the first and only Pan - European organization, which brings together 800 million people, with the operation of the European Convention on Human Rights. These countries, like Ukraine in 1995, assumed their own responsibilities and obligations before joining the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, we have not yet received the CPC, the CDC, the prosecutor’s office, and the transfer. It's a structure to Ministo. Ukraine is therefore under monitoring, and the Parliamentary Assembly has on more than one occasion threatened to suspend the powers of a permanent delegation, as was the case with Russia, as well as the membership of the State in the Council of Europe. I remind you that the delegation is formed solely on the proposals of factions by Parliament. Under the procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, urgent hearings are held at the request of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, an interested committee, 20 members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The organizers of these hearings went through the monitoring committee and, to my conclusion, went quite badly. On January 7, in Paris on Christmas Day, at a committee meeting, which I am also a member of, at the end of the meeting, there were nine members of 76. Well, that's fine. It could be under the Rules. The question is, "It's different." Mr. Yorshi of Hungary took the floor and asked to vote in favour of sending a concern to the Bureau of the Assembly on the constitutional crisis in Ukraine under urgent review. I don't mind hearing, but I'm against breaking the rules. I asked the chairman to discuss the matter before the vote. Mr. Yorshi said, "I don't know this problem. I was asked by Mrs. Severinsen to announce the matter." Severinsen and Waldenssen, by the way, came out of the committee meeting. The chairman of the committee quickly put the matter to the vote without discussion. I filed a complaint, a protest against the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. At the Bureau meeting, the issue was not supported on January 26th after the opening of the debate by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly on the inclusion of the Ukrainian issue, I suggested that we find the decision of the Monitoring Committee illegal. He was supported by 50 deputies, by the way. And this proposal was supported by Mr. Hancock of Great Britain, who is also a member of the Monitoring Committee. To conclude, I would like to say that we need to focus today on fulfilling our obligations and responsibilities. And in return, I said one second, this was about someone voting with two cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u68	Thank you. Yes, Sergey Headate, please prepare for Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. I'm very sorry that you don't have the text in the hands of the PARE Resolution. And Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this official text is on the Friday website, and anyone who wants it can download it on the official website of the Council of Europe. Your services are responsible for not having it on your desk. If you had this text, you would see that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is not. The text of the Resolution is balanced. He does not say who is right, who is to blame. Whether the majority or the majority is to blame, the right minority or not. One thing he says is that the Ukrainian Parliament violated the rules of procedure, the rules of procedure for amending the Constitution, which required non-admission. and what Resolution 2000 required. There's a government bill sitting in this bed. Justice Minister Anatoly Hare. I wrote a wonderful book on the rule of law. He writes in this book that the defining elements of the principle of the rule of law as enshrined in our Constitution, in article 8 and in article 3 of the Statute of the Council of Europe, the principle of the rule of law is the principle of legality. The principle of legality is violated if the rules of procedure are violated. The illegality of the procedure does not lead to the illegality of decisions. This is what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe requires. Therefore, the responsibility in the resolution rests not on the majority, not on the minority, not on the noise effects, not on the hand vote, but on the fact that the speaker, the head of the Supreme Council, allowed this mess on December 24 and allowed the illegal decision to be taken on February 3rd. Full responsibility for violating the rules of procedure, for violating the Ukrainian Constitution. On the violation by Ukraine of article 3 of the Statute of the Council of Europe lies on you personally, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The other one. Boris Illich, I agree with you that perhaps the most worthy president of Ukraine would be a Middle Ages expert. That's right! Because what the Constitutional Court of Ukraine does, by defining one term Kuchma is the Middle Ages, is savagery. What was done on December 24 in that corner and here is savagery. But here it was done in response, and this is said in the resolution -- the opposition acted in response, it defended itself. Because Litwin went that way. It's savagery! Yes, we have everything: the Eurovous, the Eurovre, the Eurorenovation. So think about why our leaders in Ukraine are outside this hall and why there is no Eurosurrection in this room. And what Rahanski's remark that he is voting with two cards is the first time in all the years I've been there, it says that the Parliamentary Assembly rules are held in contrast to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u70	The word has a national MP, Klukkowski, to prepare Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u71	My fellow Members, I think the main conclusion that we need to draw from the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly is that the general concern expressed by the Ukrainian people and expressed here in Parliament by the opposition to the real objectives of the so-called political reform, highlighted by the Parliamentary Assembly, is becoming a well-known world society. The Assembly has acknowledged that we are not dealing with conflict. The issue is the conflict of views, the conflict of attitude and authority: Is power the goal, or is power a means, and the means of what is its own wealth or honest work in the name of the people? The massive propaganda campaign organized by Bankova was unable to become an iron curtain that would shield Ukraine from Europe, regardless of all the screams of so - called Jewish opponents. Of course, they would like a Moscow rematch. So this massive despondency, which was planted in the Parliamentary Assembly, played his real role, he stressed the deep problem that exists in Ukraine, because otherwise the Foreign Minister, not the Vice-Speaker, and the Foreign Minister does not come to the Parliamentary Assembly if there are no problems in the State. The Parliamentary Assembly has clearly defined the main problems of this so-called "constitutional reform", a part of them in fear has now been an attempt to eliminate, but the Parliamentary Assembly has highlighted another principle of democracy: it can only be legal to do what is done by legal means. Europe has indeed gone far from the medieval Makiaveli, who said that the purpose justifies the means. This is typical of some other existing ideologies, but this is not recognized by democracy or civilization. That is why we should stress that the Parliamentary Assembly has drawn attention to some hot heads who have tried to talk about interference in Ukraine’s internal affairs. Ukraine has voluntarily undertaken certain responsibilities, and we must keep them. Yet the main position that was expressed at the Parliamentary Assembly in response to the overly active position of one of the delegates, the main objective of the reform -- anything, by any means, to prevent Victor Yushchenk's presidency. And that's what the world already knows, and that's what Europe already knows. I want to emphasize once again that the unconstitutional path of change to the Constitution will lead to a breakthrough. And second lesson in the Parliamentary Assembly: only honest and open presidential elections this fall can save Ukraine in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u72	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Yeah, and the last nigger, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u73	My dear colleagues, I am concerned about another situation that no one here has mentioned: the situation in Ukraine, particularly the Ukrainian media, has highlighted this difficult and serious problem for Ukraine. The beginning of the lighting was very interesting: the absolute majority of national channels, such as the First National, the Inter and the 1+1, passed, well, in the dark was information that wasn't entirely relevant to reality. It was stated to Ukrainian citizens that representatives of the monitoring committee were coming to meet exclusively with representatives of the opposition, while on the PARJE website and on the Information Agency, all the officials to be met by the monitoring committee were clearly listed. This lie and lie were accompanied not only by the arrival of the monitoring committee but also by the entire Paris meeting and the nature of its activities and its contents. In my opinion, this cynical lie, which has been in the Ukrainian media, has not only harmed Ukraine, but it has, of course, strengthened the attitude of our fellow MPs to the situation that has taken place there. And if in Ukraine we've come to the point where we can't find Ukrainian experts from international issues, and the experts have been speaking: the deputy of Jirinovski, the representatives of other known Russian parties who explained what PARJE is and why Ukrainians can't explain the constitutionality of these or other decisions, then I think we've already reached the pen if Girinowski and his colleagues are defending democracy in Ukraine. There are a few other questions, I'd say, moral issues, which are related to what Leonid Kuchma's representative Alexander the Road, and I understand that he was a little nervous, and this can be forgiven, a nervous state, but to forgive that he's the vice president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Hanna Severinsen called crazy and the media put this in place, so I have a question: did he report on President Leonid Kuchma's official position that the leaders of Paris are crazy, or is that his personal point of view? So as head of the Parliamentary Committee, I will insist that Alexander the Road publicly apologize to all the media for this phrase. If he doesn't, I think there's going to be a mechanism for bringing him to court to respond appropriately to a situation. Actually, you know, when you can't make serious arguments, you have to either keep quiet or get out of this discussion, because when another classic, Victor Medvedczuk's advisor, said that PARE made that decision, because most people don't know English, it's already, sorry, a farce. Let's set up some courses for most English so that next time they can take a more active stand there at the Parliamentary Assembly. So I think we should take this more seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Despite the fact that time is running out, I'm asking for the consent of Vladimir Cherniak to speak, he's the last of those recorded. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I want to draw your attention to three conclusions. First. All the changes made to the Constitution of Ukraine are made to ensure that no change of power takes place. They're aimed at preserving the existing regime. The problem is to build a democratic, civilized mechanism for change of power and to create an effective system of government, thanks to political reform. The other one. Changes to the Constitution resulted in a breach of procedure and of the Rules. Now we're not going to say who's more guilty or more or less, but that's a fact. Without the legitimacy of the procedure and the Rules, there can be no legitimate change. And the third conclusion. The main conclusion for us. The PARE resolution needs to be implemented. I've heard so much nonsense at my age, but I've never heard such nonsense about constitutional reform in Ukraine. And I'm going to limit myself to the stupid things I've heard about the Paris resolution. I turn on the TV, the Funeral says, "Let PARJE accept its resolutions, they are of a recommendational nature, and we do ours." Well, God be with him, with the Funeral. I turn on the TV, the head of the Supreme Council, and the man I'm honored is probably under pressure and says, "Well, what? Well, parje accepts some kind of recommendation, we treat them like we're nice, but for us, it's all like a lamp, we'll do our part." This cannot be said by the Head of the Supreme Council, the Head of Parliament. Our Parliament has entered into Paris, made a commitment, and if we go to Europe or Europe comes to us, and we want to be European, we cannot ignore, we can argue, we can convince, we can even disagree publicly with the recommendations, but we are obliged to do so. If we do not follow the Paris recommendations, it is a course for isolationism. So we want to put Ukraine in isolation from Europe, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask Vladimir Kirilovich to read as I say, not what he wants to hear. Please don't mention my last name. Replica to Rahani in connection with what was called his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one of the speakers spoke here, said that I had voted with two cards, and I had made a comment. I'm telling you that I actually had a conversation with Peter Schroeder, and we talked about that as if who voted and voted. And I moved to Pisarenko, there was a card next door, and there I moved the card, and I voted. But that card came out. So it's not very good to listen to private conversations, I think, and take them out on. publicize. I think it's not right and it's not right. And it's not just these things. How can we talk about how we work here, how we work, if the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe brings dirt here. It's completely incorrect for the person who named my last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up, or all who wanted to, spoke. I just want to say, out of the nine speakers, one was the majority, the rest were the deputies representing the opposition. I think this is where the balance is kept. And so the question is closed. If decisions are offered, I think we will have the opportunity to look at them and determine ourselves as the Supreme Council. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question, this is a draft law on holding companies in Ukraine. The committee proposes this procedure: up to 10 minutes for the report, 5 minutes for the follow-up, 5 minutes for the follow-up, 5 minutes for the interviewer and 10 minutes for the interview. Is there no objection? Please, Burmaka Mikola Alexiyovich, a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. Please briefly and essentially by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u79	The noble national MPs and the great Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You are considering a bill that sets out the general principles for the functioning of holding companies in Ukraine, as well as the characteristics of their formation, activities and liquidation. The bill has been drafted for the execution of the President of Ukraine's decree and the corresponding mandates of the government on this issue and taking into account the conclusions of the Special Inter-Governmental Commission, which was set up to verify the creation and financial and economic activities of state-owned shareholders and holding companies. The urgent and urgent need to adopt this law is due to several important factors that I would like to focus on. For one thing, there is virtually no legislation in Ukraine today that regulates the activities of domestic holding companies. Today, Presidential Decree 224 of Ukraine since 1994 has applied to holding companies that are created only in the process of corporateization and privatization. Now mass privatization has been completed, and the rules of this decree have remained valid only for a limited circle of cases. At the same time, most of the problems we now know are unfortunately not regulated by this decree. The other one. In the absence of proper legislation, state-owned stocks transferred by the State to the statutory foundations of state-owned stockholding companies were at risk of alienation. This could result in a significant loss of government property and, as a result, a lack of funds to the State Budget both this year and future years from privatization. Cases of shadow privatization, so-called disguised privatization, are now well known. Next. The absence of law inhibits the formation of holding companies in the private sector or so - called classic holding companies. We need to understand that steady economic growth can only be ensured by large and powerful domestic corporations, mostly open stock companies, which cover large manufacturing and technological cycles from raw materials production to finished production, from scientific research to production. This is especially true of the systemic sectors of our national economy: metallurgy, machine building, shipbuilding, agribusiness, light, food and chemical industries. This Law will provide good management conditions for state - owned and non - state holding companies, for their cooperation and fortification. And the last. Firmly functioning financial and well-regulated domestic corporations, holding companies are expected to become and are now becoming those blue chips in securities that will invest their assets in the joint investment institution and non-state pension funds. These processes will ensure both the financing of the real economy and the protection and increase of citizens' stockpiling. Dear National Deputies, given the sole importance of this law for the economic development of our state, we propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading, with further elaboration, taking into account the comments and proposals of the National Deputies, as well as the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u80	Yes, thank you. Please write down the questions, dear fellow believers. Yes, the names of the national deputies are on the sign - up board. Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u81	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear reporter, please tell me if the President is issuing a decree stating that the government is to take steps to create a national shareholding company called the Ukrainian Energy Company, which will essentially be a holding company. Does he take over the function of government, because according to the Constitution it is not the authority of the government. That's the first question. And secondly, do you think it is appropriate for one law to address the issues of both holding and national stockholder companies?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. I think that the problems that are being solved today in manual mode are the result of the lack of appropriate legislation, especially since January 1st of this year, two new important codes have been in place: the Civil Code and the Code of Hostages. The second question is, in my opinion, the answer is that again, according to the world experience and taking into account our legislative field, the main points of creation and functioning of both national and non-state holding companies are reflected. Of course, this list can be expanded, for example, by utility holding companies, as reflected in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. These questions can be further developed in the second reading if the bill is adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u83	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Mikolo Alexiyovich, would you please tell us whether the proper formation of holding companies in a specific activity such as the geological exploration branch? That's the whole thing. And in the exploration and extraction of oil and gas in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. The creation of holding companies is appropriate in any field in terms of coverage of the relevant manufacturing or technological cycle. If there is a cycle around which they work or cooperate, a large number of corporate shareholders cooperate, this question can certainly be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u86	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of Victor Yushchenk's Block. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u87	Dear reporter! I have great doubts as to whether we should legitimize holding companies in the way they exist in Ukraine. I have reason to believe that we have a lot of damage from them, and that they are used as cover to "receiv" in order to erase state property in order to defend corporate interests against national interests. In this regard, I have a question. Will this law serve if we adopt it, because the holding companies will be real and they will work for the national interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. I am sure that this law will serve those purposes, the purpose that you have spoken of. One of the main issues is the legislative ban on the alienation of stock packages that shareholders have given to the statutory stockholder holding company fund. If this question is referred to the statute, it may be that a person who is interested in creating a holding company and who has entered the statutory fund will not be protected, he may find himself in a situation where he has volunteered for one, but has taken part in the manufacturing cycle, and then these stocks have been illegally estranged. [[It could be a state, it could be a legal person]] So this is a matter that needs to be resolved by law, not by judgment, for example, by the general meeting of shareholders of the shareholder holding company.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u89	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhiy, factions of SDPU, Zaporozhye. Please tell me, Mikola Alexiyovich, I have a question for you as a specialist, and it concerns the socio-economic consequences of the adoption of this Holding Company Act in Ukraine. I mean, will this bill have consequences for the social situation of our people, in particular, to what extent will the adoption of this bill contribute to the improvement of transport services for the population of Ukraine? I mean, my question is how to get Ukraine's aviation companies to work. Do you think this is the problem of the relevance of the creation of holdings in order to improve the profitability of our aviation companies in Ukraine, which are experiencing an extremely difficult situation today?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, I'm not an expert in transportation, aviation -- I'm an economist, I'm a financier. And around the world, the formation of large holdings in one sector or another is aimed at ensuring a stable production activity or low production. And stable activity is all that comes out of it: both wages, taxes, and development, and the social sphere, and so on, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u92	Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down, Mikolo Alexiyovich. I ask the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investments of Demiohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich for a report. Dear colleagues, let us consult. Maybe we'll work another hour, because we've been reading MP requests for a long time today, and then at 1:00, we'll move on to the Miscellaneous? Is there no objection? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting, considered the bill and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the bill to the Cabinet of Ministers for further elaboration, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies and submitting it for re-reading. I would like to take a very brief look at the reasons why such a decision has been taken by the Committee. The main reason is that the draft is not in line with the provisions of the Master Code which has entered into force. This is also true of the project terminology, with regard to the size of the stock package transferred to the holding companies, regarding the specificities of the holding company's liability to the obligations of the subsidiaries. The issue of the number of shares owned by the State is also raised in the holding company of the State. What do you think of the state holding company, 60-75 or 100 percent anyway? In that case, the company could claim the name of a public company. The issue of communal holding companies was also not addressed. And we know that this is a very serious issue, especially today. In view of the shortcomings described above and the fact that the issue of protection of economic competition is very incomplete in the law, while the holding company implies concentration and certain monopolies in industry, the Committee decided to recommend the drafting of the bill and to submit for re-first reading. In terms of the findings of the Scientific and Expert Management, they do not coincide with the conclusions of the Committee, the Office suggests that the first reading should be adopted and that the second reading should be further prepared. On the other hand, when it comes to what strategy we should have in the State for holding companies, we must first say that holding companies, the concentration in one hand of the country's stock packages, should have the primary objective of developing and implementing a strategy in certain sectors. Here before me, the rapporteur spoke of the possibility that companies may be holding companies in construction, which is not the case, is no longer possible. There is no longer a base on which to build. We have virtually all shipbuilding plants that are no longer state-owned. If we're talking about holding, it's probably the energy of public policy, which should be carried out by holding companies, it's energy, it's transport, including aviation, it's the introduction of new economic, innovative ideas, it's a new policy innovative through holding companies. This is probably the main objective and we need a legislative framework to be able to implement an innovative policy, an economic policy that we are not talking about for the first year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u94	Thank you. Please sign in. Three minutes to ask. Lighten up. There's no seminog. Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u95	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Hinzburg, Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Anatoliyovich, which way does this law spell out a system or a scheme to eliminate the holding company, is it written in this scheme or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u96	The Act provides for a procedure to eliminate either the decision to collect shareholders of the holding company, or if the subsidiaries are disposed of for some reason. We believe that this procedure is not only an extermination procedure but also an exclusion procedure. Because it can be a government holding company first, and then there'll be metamorphosis. And this company is not going to become a very public one anymore. This is also one of the reasons for the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u97	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u98	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Anatolyovich, tell me, please, we are not adopting the law. President's orders are in place, holding companies are being set up, state property is being removed. There is no mechanism of influence. Yesterday, your submission from your committee overturned the Law on the Management of State Property Objects. No one is in charge of government property today. So how do we move? How do we proceed with the President's decree? Here's your opinion as an expert as a deputy chairman of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u99	I can tell you that not only did we say that since our committee was filed, we failed or not, I wouldn't have done it. But in everything, we must strive for maximum objectivity. Yesterday we didn't just crash the bill you told me about. We have successfully overturned the Real Estate Registration Act, which means the land cadastre. You saw what happened in the hall when we voted on the Automobile Support Act, when we saw all the interests in the same room. Therefore, it is still necessary to be more abstract from the specific interests presented by different groups and to speak of the benefit of the State in adopting the law. In this case, the Committee was guided by only one: the bill should strengthen the strategic role of the economic policy of the innovative approach in those sectors in which the influence of the State might remain. Yeah, by the way, it's a real estate registration. But why did the government ask the committee yesterday not to consider this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u100	Volodymyr Anatolyovich, don't come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u101	Dear colleague, I am very grateful for the decision you have made, because your predecessor has done nothing to substantiate this law. In this law, I would like an answer to two questions. First. From a development perspective, what does it offer? And in terms of protection? Should it not be another waterworks to privatize public enterprises at a minimum instead of selling them at auctions? And the second. Will it not be the worst that we will open the door to the oligarchs from Russia, their colleagues from America and Europe?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u102	Indeed, it is not likely, but the main reason why such a decision was taken by the Committee and the danger was that the law might open doors, whether or not the possibility of such secret privatization, of slowly turning from a State to a non-State enterprise. The second reason is that there is no mechanism in this law. It must be one of the elements of legislation for implementation and an innovative model in the economy of our State. We're talking about these innovative methods. We're talking about models. And there's a message from the President, except for the talks, we haven't moved on. Indeed, if a serious holding is to be established in a certain area of industry, an assessment of the assets of this holding, as a result of corporateization, as a result of open management, publicity in annual reports, the law should pay tribute to this element, that the holding company should be public. We can help attract capital. The capital is not that oligarchic you're talking about, it's normal capital. There is a resource in the world today. But everyone's afraid of this shadowy sort of thing, so to speak, methods. When the company is open, when it sees its perspective, it is possible to talk about innovation and capital drag. And then we'll be safe from the fact that this company eventually ceases to exist or.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u103	Thank you, Volodymyr Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. As agreed, 10 minutes in the discussion. Please, Karmazin, prepare for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u104	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, there are 44 of us in this room alone. Nevertheless, we are discussing a very serious matter. And I want to say that the position of Vladimir Anatoliovich Demiokin deserves support because it is absolutely legal. And instead, I don't like the fact that the First Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Azarov, signed the application to the Supreme Council, didn't even open the first article of the law that he's proposing about holding companies in Ukraine, and didn't even see how this holding is defined and what is the definition already in the Master Code that started working since January 1st of this year. The master code defines a holding company as a management entity that owns a control package of shares of a subsidiary or a business. Similarly, such definitions are made in the Civil Codex of Ukraine. What is being suggested now? It's suggested that the holding company is an open stock company that owns and manages the holding company's corporate rights, often for two or more corporate enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, even a sophomore in the law school would have made a very subtle definition of two. So I think that this bill, where there's very little definition, where there's a lot of disadvantages, well, there might be a shareholding package of corporate enterprises, which is 60 or more statutory funds of enterprises, and Mastersky says that more than 50 percent of the statutory fund is then a controlling shareholding. A state holding company is defined in the case of at least 75 percent of which is owned by the State. But in fact, only when 100 percent is owned by the state, then is the state, everything else is a completely different kind of property. Therefore, honorable national MPs need to be made aware of the purpose of this law. If you simply correct the President's decrees of 19943 about holding companies, or the President's decree of 2001 on urgent steps to organize the activities of shareholders and holding companies. And I think it's about what Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk was talking about, that everything that belongs to the State should not be controlled in our country at all. So I firmly oppose the adoption of the law in its present form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, School, get Solomon ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u106	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like first of all to draw attention to the part of the bill proposed by the government, which they believe is about the need to create, that is, the preamble of holding companies. You see, the notion of "necessity" is interesting enough in this situation, not because it's necessary, but when it's done, the holding companies are created. That is, since individual enterprises cannot withstand competition, they unite, and only in that case do they form such holdings when we talk about state holdings. So I don't think the government actually cared about providing state holdings. This is a lot to look at, because by the term "holding," as was already noted by colleagues who were previous speakers, there's a very interesting formula: there's no telling how much government interest there is, a packet: 75, 35, 45, but it's all called state holding. And to examine later, when this law, God forbid, is adopted by the Supreme Council, will be very difficult. That's why I don't think we should even discuss the concept of "holding utilities." We don't have to talk about any competition anymore. It will be a monopoly covered by this law by the Antimonopoly Committee. That's why I'm surprised at the position of the Supreme Council Committee, a profiling committee that's not as categorical as it is necessary. The law, as a minimum, is raw and unprepared, and, at the very least, it needs to be returned to work. That's it. Because again we're talking about good intentions. Remember, then, that the path to hell is well - meaning. And so you're actually trying to get a good leaf to set us on the path of hell, both to us and to all the Ukrainian people. I think today and now is the most time-consuming law. Now we have to deal with all the privatization points that have taken place. Now there are bills in the Supreme Council to allow the privatization of the Topaz company, which is producing these earrings. You understand, you know, passive-sensitivity complexes, passive observation. That's why I don't think anyone's interested in state interests by offering to privatize this business. So I emphasize, holding is only good when we have completed privatization processes, when a clearly and unequivocally competitive fight is over, when all the main monopolies are eliminated. Only then can we go back to the subject of holding. Now we have to put off and not come here, I'm sorry, and try to push us again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u107	Please, National Deputy Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u108	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! I'm starting my speech with a statement you know that the government of capitalist ministers has thrown another bourgeois bill into the bourgeois bourgeois Council. And now I have a social class position to figure out with you what the government is up to. And that's the question that we've had here on a number of occasions: mass privatization seems to have been completed, and the holding company should only be created after it's really finished. But I would like to remind you, dear colleagues. A large bite was made in industry when all that was created by human hands was taken. The same was true of the earth when it was adopted in a disgraceful way in this room of the Earth Codex, but there remained the nadra and now all that is in the top and belongs to the Ukrainian people is about to take place here a great last bite. So I'd like to draw our common attention to not having such a bite, but really everything that's on top of it, it's the property of the entire Ukrainian people and it's working for their own good. So from this point of view, the holding company, if it's built under. And there will be no proper state control over all the shares that will be in the holding company and its own subsidiary, if such a company is created just to intercept state property that is a mining complex, then we don't need such holdings. And if this is a means of preserving the real right of the State to ensure that all that comes out of the rubble belongs to the Ukrainian people, we need such holdings. So I want to point out to the profile committee that not only energy, transport and other innovation trends deserve to have holdings there, but also mining and mining complexes as a whole property complex, as well as geological exploration. So I'm asking the P.I. and the government to pay attention to these characteristics of creating holdings in our country, and I'm personally willing to cooperate with both the government and the P.I. Committee on this issue. Our faction to which I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u109	Please, we have one minute to offer. Nigger. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The holding companies are hiding the danger of hidden privatization. This happens when a state-owned holding company becomes stateless, then the possible alienation of state property is priceless. Hostings open doors to foreign capital. It's actually a good thing, but what kind of capital, and it should be proven that the whole sectors of our economy, as has already happened in Ukraine, do not become foreign. There is also the danger of monopolies through holding. So if you prepare this law for second reading, you have to take into account all these threats, all these dangers and eliminate them. In addition, we need to clearly write out the holding mechanism as a tool for implementing innovation and investment policy, and of course this law should go in a package with the Law on State Property Management. When we do all of this, then the law can be passed. I suggest we move it back to re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I couldn't resist the insistence of Valentina Petrovna, so please give her one minute to even break the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u112	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I want to address all the representatives of the majority and the government, in particular. I've been in Parliament for 10 years. For the fifth time, the bill is passed, and every time it gets worse and worse and worse. There is a special effort to ensure that no one does anything about the law in the public sector of the economy. The President's decree is in effect today. In the law, there is no restriction in the President's decree on the right to alienate state property. There is a law in this bill! Yesterday, everything was done to prevent the Law on State Property Management from being passed. So I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to address the Cabinet of Ministers, if you want to be the Cabinet of Ministers, not the boys to be beaten, I beg you, let's sit together, let's go back to the Law on the Management of State Property Objects, we'll take the first reading, or we'll work on the Holding Act. Otherwise, the Order works. It's where they're alienating the patchpiperprom today, the oil products. Today, terrible corruption, please read the material of the Court of Auditors that was commissioned by a special review committee. Do we want to continue destroying our state property, or will we return to the Middle Ages? Let's go back to this document. And I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers and the government. Work and return this document, the management and holding law and work in this room, or we'll be completely destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u113	Thank you. The question is closed, we will be determined on the day of the vote. Let us turn to the next question. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in the area of intellectual property, registration number 3676. Review of the simplified procedure. National deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Grigorovich Osik, reports. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch. Can you do it in three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I am introducing to your consideration a draft law that I might call, given the history of his consideration and all the suspense of this consideration, how a little pernicious. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the following circumstances. The main purpose of this bill is to bring our intellectual property legislation into internationally recognized rules and rules, which are primarily defined by the Agreement on Trade in Intellectual Property and by some other universal international agreements. He intends to remedy the situation and bring into line the External Economics Act and our Disk Law. In terms of its main advantages, they are that my bill clearly distinguishes the licensing of production, let's say, disks and export-import transactions on the same issue, from the same product that creates a more transparent and normal field for our producers. Second and specific advantage. Unlike existing legislation, it provides a comprehensive list of control bodies, I stress, a comprehensive list of control bodies that have the right to control the manufacturer in this area, which, and this is very important, greatly reduces the possibility of abuse of foreign competitors in this area. In closing my speech, I would like to say that there is nothing wrong with this bill. An analogy. We all supported laws to fight the laundering of dirty money, given that we were on the blacklist so - called. And it's very dangerous. I'll tell you that there is no such list, it exists virtually. But it's very bad when our country is on a list of countries where there's pirate production. To see this, you don't have to go to the districts, you have to go through Krestlety and see how many pirate products we still have and are sold almost in the middle of the street. This bill was supported by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Joining. ‘ Tarasyuka and supported by our administration and expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u115	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovich. Please have a seat. The issue is being considered by a simplified procedure. Professor Cherniak, head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on Intellectual Property, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to further improve the state regulation of export licensing and import of disks for laser reading systems. The committee marks three positive points in the law. First. It eliminates the contradictions between the Ukrainian Foreign Economics Act and the Law on the Specificities of State Control of Management Subjects Related to the Production of Importable Disks for Laser Systems by Reading. The other one. The adoption of this bill will help, and we hope that it will help lift US sanctions against Ukraine. That's about 53 million. And the third. The adoption of this law will facilitate Ukraine’s entry into WTO. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. And by the way, there's a series, a whole series of correct comments and suggestions. I note that the bill was also discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. This committee has been critical of the bill in many ways. During the discussion, members of the committee noted that the bill did not take into account the comments and proposals made by laser disc manufacturers. In view of what they decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return the draft for further work. I'd like you to know that. At the same time, the Committee, taking into account the totality of circumstances, believes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading, but when preparing it for the second reading, take into account the comments and suggestions already made, including by members of our committee, as well as those that will be sent in the process of preparing it in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, yes, for discharge: Guess who should be the first to speak now? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u118	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! At a time when we're talking about making changes to some of the legislation in the area of intellectual property, the city of Pervomayk Kharkiv district is not intelligent at all, with the help of the militia, they're breaking down doors in Horizon TV without a court order, without anything. I'm going to the Minister of Internal Affairs: please find a different use for the militia than the door-knocking and whatever else, let them pierce their foreheads better. So, dear friends, this bill I would call my colleague Sergey Osica the hook they want to hang the Ukrainian industry on. Yes, indeed, there are such requirements in our foreign friends. There are those requirements, but I'm against the adoption of this bill, and I want to write down immediately, Adam Ivanovich, that Carmazin has taken a stand against you, or you're writing down who's in favour, who's against it. So, what was I up against? Because this law has to be called quite different: making changes to certain legislation on production, exports and imports. Amendments to the Criminal Code, including up to 203 primes. The Criminal Code is one that narrows criminal liability for illegal acts with laser disks and cancels criminal responsibility for production, export, import of non-licensed disks. Are we contributing to the fight against counterfeit products or not? Next, on export or import of disks for laser reading systems, a license can be issued only 30 days after registration of an application from a business entity. Once again, this disc will reach a Ukrainian performer abroad only a month after its departure in Ukraine, or the foreign one will reach only us within a month. What will that do? Contraband again. Production. Next. You suggest that pre-planned checks be carried out not only in the case of a written request to the licensing authority of persons who are entitled to copyright for violation of their rights, but also in the case of non-planned checks, you suggest whenever possible. And so these abuses on the part of the employees of the licensing authority, other control bodies, the tax administration will be innumerable. So I wonder why the committee, which today represented a very distinguished man to me, Mr. Cherniak, has so leniently responded to this project, anti-Ukrainian in substance and form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Powerful characteristics. Sergey Grigorovitch, you'll say in the end. Please, School. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u120	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, first of all, let's stress that the bill that's being introduced here is being submitted in exchange for the old one. And in general, we need to talk here in this situation, not about Ukraine as a pirate producer, and we need to protect the whole world from it, but about Ukraine, which is basically the author of know-how writing in an optical and metric way, which is the inventor of this disc. Let's not forget that. And the country is a high technology -- let's not worry about that either. And it's also impossible to cut the situation because we have a huge potential to develop this scientific segment of the market. But I'd like to talk a little bit more about laser disks, about what's on them, and about what's being produced in Ukraine. We're talking about licensing. What distinguishes licensing products in Ukraine from licensing products, such as in Poland, Russia? Because the license product in Russia appears, if possible, to be duplicated exclusively in Russian, in Poland - Polish. I am constantly wondering why in Poland, for example, discs do not come out in Russian. Everyone understands. Well, it would be much cheaper to give Russia the right to ensure that there are only two languages in the world: English and Russian. That would be, I think, normal. But in this situation, you have to get out of national interests, you have to develop national production, and even when you're licensed, it's got to be a national licensing company, so if you're licensing the product, it's got to be, like, a minimum, a national language. Change the nationality of the language, change the Constitution, ban the Ukrainian language from the Valevian order, and then everything will be in place. It is now impossible to buy a pirated or licensed disk in Ukraine in a language other than Russian. In Poland, by the way, pirate discs somehow come out in Polish, although in their opinion European experts believe they are done here in Ukraine. I mean, the mind is enough, the desire is gone. And here at least, if we can't regulate the market for pirate products and that's understandable. So let's regulate the licensing market. Why and how long will we not be able to buy any modern medium in Ukraine, especially I mean DVDs, where the subtitles would say what is said there in English, in Ukrainian. And how many times I've been told that it's not convenient for those Ukrainians to have 17 million, 20 million, and those huge Norwegians to have 4 million! And there are eight million of them! And the Ukrainians are 18. And that's basically what we need to focus on. Now this is a competitive battle here, the state has a very circumstantial nature, and all these threats to sanctions are one thing. It's important that we protect Ukrainian language and culture from sanctions when we talk about the development of high technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u121	Thank you, Andrey. You've reduced the number of Ukrainians to 17 million. I think there's twice as many of them as there is at least. Yes, Andrew, you're against this law, that's what I understand. Yes, Solomonine, are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u122	Against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u123	Against? So 2 already went against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u124	Then I'll be 30 seconds with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u126	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have studied this bill carefully. Unfortunately, it does not improve the situation in this important and very sensitive sphere, and our faction cannot support this bill. That's the first one. The other one. I want to say it for a few more seconds. It's not about what language this disk is going to be defined in. There are languages, there must be respect for each language. But I want to say that there are languages of international communication. These languages in our space are, first of all, Russian in the post-Radians space, and if we go there, we move to Europe, there's English. But we haven't moved to Europe yet, and it's like we haven't moved on this side yet, so let's not break the writings around it, let's listen to those who consume these discs, or buy them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u127	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u128	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Thank you, Your Honor, especially Mr. Carmazin and Solomonine for your thoughts on this bill. They're extremely constructive, and they're going to help work. At the same time, I want to answer some of the questions that have been raised directly or indirectly in the hall. First. When we talk and talk about large and paphosic categories like the producer's national interests, we should say that these national interests of the manufacturer are narrowed down specifically to one plant called Rostock. I'm not going to talk about this Rostock. I have great respect for everyone who works there. But I can tell you that we're working, and I've been working directly with the representatives of the Plant Plant Rostok, taking into account the proposals they made. I remind you that this is about first reading, so that in the second reading, they are all included. By the way, this bill, which is the largest and almost only national producer, is being drafted. I don't want to touch sanctions or no sanctions, but I can say that removing certain restrictions on the work of the same Rostok on orders to produce these same discs can increase the production and export of the Roscot factory to $50-55 million a year, I say, as a professional who knows what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u129	Finish it, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u130	And the third. I can say with absolute confidence that active legislation does not work because of the position of imperialists as someone else, just go through the Crusades and look at the bays of pirate production that are and that distorts the image of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u131	Thank you. The matter has been considered, and we will be determined in accordance with the Rules. Dear colleagues, we're going to need to consider two very important laws regarding the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code, so please. The draft Law on Recognition of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine is pending, and the registration number is 4224. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. This bill has a purely legal and technical nature and is proposed to amend the 35 laws of Ukraine in order to provide the terminology and standards laid down in the Ukrainian Civil Code, which took effect on 1 January of this year in order to avoid conflicts of norms. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u133	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the committee of the committee on the legal policy of Musiak Viktor Lavrentiyovich will report. No questions asked. Short-term procedure. Personally, personally, please. Please. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Recognition, which, as you know, became effective, some of the legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the new Civil Code, which, as you know, came into force on January 1st of this year. We are somewhat late, indeed, with the adoption of changes and additions to the vast array of laws that work to bring them into line with the Civil Code. And this is the first wave of these changes that are necessary simply, 35 laws. I would also like to say that the committee has come to the conclusion that, in addition, it is necessary to bring into line with the Civil Code a number of laws that are in force, new texts need to be adopted, or entirely new laws. These are like the Notaryate Act, in terms of regulating intellectual property relations, the Housing Code, and so on. There are situations that don't actually fit the subject of civil law regulation. We have to adjust. And there are laws that have to be provided for here in this normative act from the point of view of making changes to their regulations. I think we're doing all of this together with the Ministry of Justice, there's no problem in this committee. There is an offer to accept in the first reading so that we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u135	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. Is there a need to discuss? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that such serious matters are discussed in such haste in our Supreme Council. It's very sad. I wanted to hear from the minister of justice the direction of the changes proposed in connection with those legislative acts, such as the Civil Code, which the State would continue to follow. This is the minister of justice. He is responsible for the legislative settlement of all processes in the state, for the legislative policy. And I didn't hear anything about it. I am very sorry that this can be hidden in a brief discussion. So what I'm saying is that those experts in the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration who were working on this, both Teeth, and Shevchenko, and Matsuk, clearly suggested that we should make changes not only to these laws and to much more in scope than we have now proposed. There is no proposal to amend the Ukrainian Code of Masters, no amendment to the Code of Merchandise Shipping in Ukraine, which should clearly be brought into line with the Civil Code now, the Law on Taxation of Business Income, the Land Code of Ukraine. Article 102 should be provided for the grounds for ending the earth’s servitude as the death of a person provided for in article 406 of the Civil Code. We need to add the Law on Economic Societies, where we can give a new definition of the company as a legal person, whose statutory capital is divided into shares among the parties that would then be in line with the Civil Code. And we would have stopped all the conversations that are going on today in the legal literature about the contradiction between the Civil Code and the Master Code. And that's exactly what we've been looking at on the committee and seeing these needs. In particular, they saw the need to make changes to the Law on Controversy in Ukraine, to the Water Code. And I'll tell you that a lot of legislation needs to be brought into line today with the new Ukrainian Civil Code. So what I'm suggesting is that this doesn't just work out, and we've written down the commission of the committee more broadly than was considered in the first-reading body is presented to consider this and to reconcile all legislation completely with the rules of the new Civil Code. If we don't, there's not going to be a distinction with the Code of Masters, there's not going to be any legal policy aimed at all legislative acts today being brought to the level that the Civil Code is being raised today, and there's going to be an aberration in the courts. I urge you to work very seriously on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u137	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliovich, but please look carefully at the following question and we will consider what you are proposing. There are no more willing ones to share in the discussion. The discussion is over, we will be determined on the day of the vote. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters is being announced for consideration in order to comply with the Ukrainian Civil Code. Registration number 4445. Report by the Minister of Justice, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. For how long, Alexander Volodymyrovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, it takes a little more here. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. There are two problems that need to be addressed in the legislative order. The master code, which has become effective, has several standards that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. On the other hand, there is part of the rules that are in conflict with the rules of the Civil Code, and this is a problem for resolving issues if they arise in business entities. In particular, I want to tell you a few articles that don't directly fit the Constitution. Paragraph 2 of the fourth article 43 does not correspond to part two of article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding officials who have restrictions on entrepreneurship. Part 1 of article 315 of the Code of Lords conflicts with article 124 of the Constitution. This refers to the fact that for all subjects of entrepreneurial activity and citizens there are unnecessary judicial procedures for settling disputes. This is their right, not their duty, and this is in the interpretation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, so it cannot be overstepped; it must be removed from the Code of Lords. The point is also that we have problems with the Civil Code in a large number of articles. In particular, these are forms of ownership that apply to both the Civil Code and, ultimately, the Constitution of Ukraine, too, because the Code of Lords introduces such a concept as collective property. The Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for this form of property, and we have basically the laws of our state just state private and municipal property. Then, where the subjects of this property are concerned, it certainly affects many articles of the Civil Code as well. The issue of securities, it's different in the Civil Code and the Master Code. In particular, when it comes to the circulation of securities, their classification, and what's very important when it comes to the transfer of rights for securities, they're different in the Civil Code and the Civil Code, and that's why it's meant to be a common denominator. The issue of bank account write-offs for customers in banks is also solved in different ways. In particular, let's say the Civil Code stipulates that the withdrawal of a client's account can only be in three cases -- it's when the client himself cheats on the basis of the agreement between the client and the bank, and the decision of the court. In view of this, in article 236 of the Code of Masters, it is necessary to remove the words of an unacceptable debtor from the account. This is something that does not fit the Civil Code today. It's also about what happens to the operation of the bank accounts in general. There are also several problems. There is a question about the opening of bank accounts and what actions must be taken. The Civil Code lays down conditions for the opening of these accounts, which are much broader than those established by the Code of Lords. And the Civil Code also establishes order and form of calculation, a type of cashless calculation. However, according to the Code of Masters, the establishment of accounts and the establishment of forms and procedures for the execution of accounts will be reduced to the National Bank. In view of this, it is proposed to amend article 342 of the Ukrainian Code of Lords. There is a need to make changes with a view to settling the household relationship in other parts as well. In particular, the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, which deal with the protection of economic competition, reflect the rules of the Law on the Limitation of Monopolymism and the non-adversarial competition in entrepreneurial activities that have already become effective in Ukraine after the Act on the Protection of Economic Competition has become effective. We've worked on these codes for a long time. And in the meantime, the legislation went forward, and there was a law left in the body of the code that was already forgotten when it was valid. But this needs to be corrected. There are also a number of articles that apply to allow business subjects to use clear and clear, unambiguous standards in their activities and not to use two different approaches. I would ask that this bill be carefully considered and that it be accepted as soon as possible, taking into account that since January 1st, both the Civil Code and the Master Code have become effective -- and this is already creating a problem for the economic mechanism of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u139	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Indeed, dear colleagues, we need to take this matter seriously enough while a coconspirator is on his way, and after considering it carefully, we need to accept these changes. Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters who listen to us today! The bill that the Minister of Justice has just reported is really timely, it's introduced by the government, it's designed to harmonize and harmonize the two very important codes that regulate today's basic relations in the field of farming and, in fact, civil law relations. It is the Master’s Codex and Civil Codex, which came into force on January 1, this year. The Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill at its meeting, and I can immediately say that I found it so that it could be based, including with a view to furthering it. The committees came to the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority, which shares this point of view and which will actually allow the Supreme Council to consider it in the first reading mode and take it as a basis. A few clauses are essentially the bill and essentially the provisions it's meant to settle. Reporting, Alexander Volodymyrovich listed mainly the positions that are the subject of the bill’s regulation. I'm just going to pay attention to some of them. In particular, the bill benefits from taking into account today’s new realities, including legislative ones that have evolved and already exist as State relations after the adoption of the Supreme Council of the Civil and Master Code. In particular, I would like to remind you that on January 15, 2003, this bill was adopted, and a number of laws, particularly in the field of competition law, were also in force. That is what is involved in making changes to the relevant chapters of the Code of Lords. At the same time, the position of the committee is that it may be better not to delete articles and chapters relating to competitive antitrust legislation but to replace them with new legal material that should determine principles and approaches to regulation in this important area of social relations. That's the first one. The other one. It is noteworthy that the bill contains some positions of discussion. In particular, the Legal Policy Committee received a request from the Academy of Law, the Coordination Bureau for Economic Law, indicating that, among other things, the proposal to delete a category of collective property and relationships based on collective property needs further development. It's natural that this is a political and legal phenomenon today, and it's been known for a long time. And obviously, it's important for us to address this issue from the point of view, first of all, whether this category is damaged and this legal institution is developing civil or commercial relations. We can safely say that there are many arguments here that benefit this proposal. And in closing, my dear colleagues, I would like to say that the discussion also has a question related to, to some extent, I have already said this, by applying certain standards of competition law. In general, the project is timely, necessary. Naturally, he could not solve all the problems that exist today, such as conflicts between economic and civil laws. They work, practice is being made, and perhaps it is good that we are not in a hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u141	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. I'm distracted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u142	I'm almost done, literally, with one phrase. And it's only natural that Parliament, working in the second reading mode, will be able to improve these things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u143	Thank you. All I have to do is tell Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'm not going to ask you for the first time who's been commenting on the national MPs' speeches, I'm going to say it. Adam Ivanovich, let me speak for myself. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the project under consideration is very serious and very important. I am pleased that the minister of justice has considered criticism and has expanded his report now. In particular, I thought I would find an answer to why after chapter 40 of the Code became effective, when the procedure was complicated and the extended terms of referral for decisions on the transfer to the concession would and would be proposed to exclude the approval by law of a separate list of objects transferred to the concession. Think about how serious this is right now, when the Odessa-Boda concession and inclusion bill is being submitted. And we say, "Let's delete the list at all." This is so that we can think about the future, and I would like to talk about some of the legal issues that I have in connection with this project’s consideration. I don't understand why chapter 33 of the "Capital Building of the Code" is supposed to take effect now, but it's only been effective since July 1, 2004. I don't understand why we have to stop the rules of the game that have already begun. I don't understand. It's not clear from the point of view of legal engineering. I fully agree with the conclusions of our scientific experts, both Zuba and Shevchenka, that parallel application is impossible without the consent of positions, particularly with regard to the legal status of agricultural societies, which are regulated in different ways in articles 113 and 162 of the Civil Code, in articles 79, 92 of the Master Code. I can't understand why we don't yet regulate the general principles of farm obligations and farm contracts, this is article 173-175, 178, 178, 182, 184, 188, defining the terms of specific contracts. I don't understand why we don't write about liability for breach of obligations, such as compensation for damage, which is defined in different ways and in articles 216 of the Master Code and in articles 6, 610-625 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable national MPs, this law as fundamental must be adopted. I agree with Onechuk. But it needs to be expanded and out of the body that is now being proposed to make these laws fit European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u145	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, Black, is there a wish? Please. I already got it. I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u146	My dear colleagues, taking this opportunity, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a lot of shortage in our legislative work, and generally this lack is not about the lack of intelligence, but about the fact that there is a struggle of interest in this room. Sometimes, when we feel that passions are involved, interests really fight. What's it to me? Before we worked very long, productively, constructively, vigorously on the Civil Code. By the way, I was also a member of the working group, and the Code of Masters, it's been many years. I've been watching this fight, and I've been watching science schools that couldn't agree with each other, and I've been watching the interests of certain financial and political groups. And we're finally giving birth to the Civil Code. Once, Napoleon said that I would be remembered, not by winning 40 battles, but by preparing the Civil Code. This is indeed an extremely important event in the country’s life. Roman was the Civil Code and Napoleon, and now we have the Civil Code in Ukraine. It takes a short time, and we see once again that the Code of Masters does not encounter the Civil Code, which in itself has contradictions, there are contradictions in the Civil Code. So let's face it. But I support the minister of justice in this regard, if so, and there is a need, practice shows us that we need to make changes, and world experience shows us that we need to make them. So let's bring them in. But once again, so it's not a summary, if we make it, let's have a concept of change. I'm against making changes through tics, fragmented changes. And if we want to improve the Code of Masters, the Civil Code, let's really think about the concept of change and we're going to make these changes systematically, consistently, indisputably. So in general, by supporting the bill, I felt it was my duty to express some of the thoughts on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u147	Thank you. As a result of the reduced procedure, two spoke in favour, and there are no willing speakers. Thus, the discussion is concluded. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask your permission, we have the tenth time in order of a daily bill, which consists of three words. What is involved in issues related to corruption, laundering, and so forth, and so forth. If you agree, let's take a quick look at this issue. Then what we're going to take to this question, I'm going to add to the Miscellaneous. No, with a broadcast. Don't worry. Then please listen to the bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of the Laundering of Proceeds by Criminal Procedure on the Financial Monitoring Authority. This is registration number 4132. First Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Grigorovitch Gurgy 4122. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u148	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. With a view to improving and developing the national system of money-laundering and in accordance with the Presidential Decree, the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared and introduced a bill for the identification of a specially authorized executive authority on financial monitoring by the central executive body. Following the forty FATF recommendations, countries, including Ukraine, should establish financial intelligence units that are national centres. A project aimed at creating conditions for strengthening the status of a specially authorized body. The project provides for four changes: replacing the government authority of the government, which operates within the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, to replace the words "central authority of the executive branch with special status". According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill has been considered and recommended for adoption. It is also considered and supported by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. I ask you, national deputies, to consider it and make the right decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u149	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovich, please sit down. From the committee first deputy head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The committee at its meeting on September 17th supported this bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council for consideration in the first reading of the adoption as a basis. What did the committee mean? To talk on an equal footing with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSC, the Attorney General's Office, Natzbank, of course, this body really had central status. In Russia, by the way, it's a committee on financial monitoring of the Russian Federation. It's a central organ. So I think we need to support and vote for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u151	Thank you for your time. Dear colleagues, summary procedure. Who among those who have signed up are willing to take the floor? No, I'm not. Carmazine, please. Let's get out of here. Turn on the microphone from Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u152	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Look, how long has it been since FatF threatened us with sanctions and so on? And remember how much did you torpedo what I suggested you would do? Have You Forgotten? Why didn't you say in your report today that Carmazin suggested that we do this right now and get the Ministry of Finance out of the way and not make a mockery of people and not show that we have 90 percent of the economy in the shadows? So I want to give you some examples: when you blur today in the Western region, in the Odessa region, when you sweep one container, only 5,000 dollars are paid in the State Budget, on the average, but 125 goes to so-called law enforcement. 125! Can you today, the so-called Financial Intelligence, resist this? No, because they made you pockety, they made you special, they made you like this. At that point, it was good for you. I'm going to vote in favour of this bill with two hands, but we need to make changes, we need to make this organ not pockety and non-podasarian and non-scrupulous. It's supposed to be Nadazarian, super-curve, and above, sorry, kuschministan, too. Therefore, this body must be law - enforcement, and to this day it must protect the interests of all citizens of Ukraine. Like today, please tell me you're responding to the fact that 40 percent of taxpayers get cash in return -- you don't cook. And I'm preparing a pill for you all. I will now give international institutions evidence of what is happening today in the state, and I will give evidence. And then you'll realize that you have to make a full law on the fight against money laundering. And then 80 percent won't be in the shadow of all the GDP that is being recognised today. Therefore, this body must have special status, but it must be returned to it. And I'd like to ask the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption to prepare a completely new law that would authorize this body to really fight against the laundering of dirty money, not to pretend that we have such an organ. And this is just a fig leaf. I would like to listen to experts who are already teething in this regard. Let's just say that for this money that's being washed today, you can raise every pensioner's pension by 100 dollars -- I'm responsible for what I said, I can present the calculations -- only on the basis of customs payments and the cessation of corruption in law enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u153	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think you've given so much evidence that you have both the facts in your hands or the flag in your hands. Please, we will consider the bill without commission. Every national MP has the right to legislative initiative. Of those who sign up, who else insists? Hinzburg, please turn on the microphone. She's behind her, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Hinzburg. The Communist faction is ours all the time that there are budget proposals, it talks about objects, it tells us why, where and where we can get money to raise pensions, wages for our citizens, including what Karmazin has just said. I'd just like to say that the question is that I'm going to change the word there, so I understand that this is just a change in the organ of the name, but this is a matter for the Supreme Council to talk about, not a minute, but a whole day, probably, because the whole country in us today is in such money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u155	Thank you. So 2 is in. Andrew School, are you in favour or against? Against? Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u156	I'm going to base my position on this, because, you know, Mr. Deputies and Radio Listeners, here we are again facing the problem. When there is a problem in the torso, you can have your fingers, your hands, and even some organs, but when you have a disease, what are you going to talk about? We've already heard this speech by the President, who called on the corrupt to fight corruption. We understand, however, that the "authority" people, thieves in the law in the east, would come together to discuss how to fight organized crime. That's about the same thing. But now we have to change, not add or take organs, change power. And only when the authorities change can we give new powers to new organs. If you write a law on a new law enforcement authority that should investigate and study the issue of money laundering, just do so from the following year. Now you can cook, but once again, with a scalpel, it's impossible to cure vertebral fractures. Well, a broken spine in today's regime. Trust me. Of course, some functions can be passed on here to others, but this will not solve the situation. Believe me, this will only relieve the pressure of international structures, but this will not improve the situation in Ukraine. So I would like to point out that right here, colleagues say you can't eliminate impotence by demonstrating the right movies. You just have to have that potential. And when the head of state and the guarantor of the Constitution come before us and urge us to fight bribery. So I take it, he's been carefully embezzling this for 10 years, and now he wants to get over it somehow by the end of his own regime. So once again, this bill is not going to solve anything. Only a change of power will be decided. Let's get back to that in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u157	Yes, please, Solomon’s for or against? Why would you do that? Yes, would you please say yes or no? Yes, please, then the discussion is over. We have 2 “in favour”, Gornik “against”. Please, Gunner's word. But I'll turn off the microphone if you speak for it. It's written down. Please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich! First of all, the claim is that the text of the bill, although you said it consists of three words that are not in our electronic system, and this is not the first time. I'm asking you to make an order to this phenomenon. And second of all, the organ itself. Of course, it's more positive that it's part of the Kabmin system, not the Treasury system, but the fact is that this could lead to only 3,000 of those 125 grand in customs for the state, and the fighting will increase. So, really, it's not the tool that cures our economy. Moreover, it was one of the points of contention when appropriate decisions were taken to avoid FAT sanctions. It may have some effect on the position of the FAT, but this bill can only be adopted if it is regulated by the relevant law. I've come to realize here that they want to lead to a position that will be confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm against that question, so I think we need to get it back to re-reading so that all the positions that regulate the work of the committee are added to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u159	Thank you. You have kept your word. Dear colleagues! Question completed. We'll determine according to the rules. Now, please fill out the list. Let's move on to different. Please, three minutes, don't forget, Nosenko. After him, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u160	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction, Chernigovishte. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Today, I am forced to speak out on the hard, bureaucratic attitude of executive authorities towards the problems of disabled people working at the Ninja Manufacturing Company of UTOS in the Chernigian region. So after arriving at my address, a collective letter from the employees of the listed company, in which they, describing all their troubles, ask for help speeding up the process of disbursing two hundred thousand dollars of business loans. I turned to Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov for help. 17.06.2003 received an answer to his address. But from the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Djachenko. It stated that the relevant fund in Kiev had been reviewed by the business plan of the University of Nižin, UTOS, for lending. It also mentioned the need for some changes and refinements in terms of "About the Business Plan." The answer to the question of lending should have been given after the business plan had been finalized, but regardless of the conditions that followed it and the repeated attempts of the company's management to bring the issue to a logical conclusion, as they say, a visa and now there. With the head’s information in UTOS, the main reason why it is impossible to obtain a loan is the uncertainty of the fund’s management in the recovery of funds. As a result of this cynical treatment of the disabled, another collective letter came from the employees of the same company at my address. I saw the situation in the letter with my own eyes. I assure you, the painting was more than terrible. The production facility and the shelter where the disabled live is not heating up for a long time because the cost of fuel is insufficient. Despite the gas availability of almost the entire city of Nizhin, no gas was produced for the boiler company. The Administration asked the Commission on Business and Organizations, Social Organizations of Disabled Persons to provide irreversible financial assistance for undertaking gasification. But the question has not yet been resolved. And winter is coming to an end. People with disabilities are begging for help in solving the issues raised. Despite difficult working conditions and living conditions, employees grow production volumes each month. Taking into account the difficult material condition of all the disabled in Ukraine, after what you saw with sarcasm, you mention thinking, I apologize, a humorist for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Leschenko, follow him Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u162	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I want to touch on two very important issues for the people of Ukraine. First, the pension fraud, the bourgeois government of Yanukovich, claims to be socially oriented, but these words differ from what they do. Arguments: fast and constant increase in food prices, goods of first necessity, housing and utility tariffs, lowering the minimum wage from 237 to 205 dollars. And most importantly, pension fraud. The government is implementing such a pension reform, with 80 percent of pensioners receiving no supplement to their modest pensions. However, one, seven or 4.2 percent of the last year’s inflation may not be considered a pitiful addition. The Communist faction has never supported or supported such abuse. We Communists are constantly struggling with bourgeoisies for improving the living conditions of the working people. We're making wage proposals, pensions, tariffs, etc. We call it the source of funding for social programs. Unfortunately, they are not perceived by the pro-presidential bourgeois-criminal majority in Parliament. Once again, I warn the voters that the people of Ukraine will never expect to improve their lives. The only way out is to change the system of power, to take it away from the bourgeoisies, and to transfer it to the people, that is to say, to establish Soviet power. That's why the second question is political reform. This is a consistent position and purpose of the Ukrainian Company. It's a chain. The Presidency-Parliamentary Republic, then the Parliament-President, then the Parliamentary and finally the Republic of the Labour People, the Soviets. For this, we are prepared to destroy both the bourgeoisie of Camp Kuchma and the bourgeoisie of Camp Yushchenka and Timoshenko. In recent times, we have been able to move a little away from the scene of political reform. I underline, in the interests of the people. Just as lies and dirt have not been poured on Communists under the control of the bourgeois clans of the media. In return, I declare. The communists have never been or will not be together -- not with the bourgeois-nassies, not with the bush town bourgeois, not with the President's office by the capitalist Medvedchuk. Never. We're with the workers of Ukraine. I'm deeply confident that our people will have enough intelligence to end this year's bourgeois-criminal bushmism. In our destitute, but proud people, there's enough intelligence to keep the bourgeois-nationalist forces at the forefront of the U.S. Yashchenk prosthetic. It's not going to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u163	The word is given by the national deputy, Grigorovitch. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u164	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Today, unfortunately at the morning session, the Rules worked on my person in such a way that I was not allowed to conclude. I will continue because the situation in which the Ukrainian people are now continues. So, the venerable Ukrainian community, we have a high-level and highly respected stability: stability at the lowest wage in Europe, stability at the lowest minimum pension, stability at the ten unfulfilled budgets in the twelve years of Ukraine's independence. This stability has gone into a demographic crisis, an epidemic of tuberculosis, AIDS, but -- we have stability. No war, no shocks or cataclysms in Ukraine today are the lowest demographic social and economic indicators. Literally on December 24, when we were trying to preserve the right, and I emphasize the right of the Ukrainian people to change power to change this stability, it's been a month. And, as you think, honourable colleagues, underlining the conclusion of this first week's work, perhaps a decree on paradise would have been made to this Parliament, would it be possible to introduce a bill of the Ukrainian national deputy Grigorovich, who then submitted during the constitutional crisis to increase the state aid to families with children to 100 bracelets? No! No! I've reviewed the order of the day this week, and the next one, this bill is gone. So here too, Ukrainian citizens of honour, also "stability." In view of that, I'd like to talk again: and why do we have this "stability" that's been happening for twelve years? Because in the background of this stability, we have a variety of things from time to time. Let's think about a colossal with drugs, a colossal with prices for bread, a colossal with diapers. And in turn, we have a really coliseum with meat products and prices for utilities. I'd like to point out that this is a community for one reason. And the President of Ukraine very clearly pointed out this reason for the colossal conflict by holding a meeting on corruption and crime. He said clearly, the first point is that the main cause of theft and corruption in Ukraine remains the fact that this phenomenon has been brought to us in Ukraine since the last time of the commotion. Who was responsible for the destruction of the Soviet Union? Nobody. The same members of the CD Politburo are gaining an independent Ukraine today. So the shame of such stability and the glory of the citizens' choice of Ukrainians that we must ensure. With regard to the living minimum of 365 bracelets offered once a year to wash in the bathroom, four times to cut and buy one coat and one skirt for life, I want to say that the faction "Our Ukraine" is against such stability and the rights of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u165	Thank you. But your bill stands for next week. Please, National Deputy Chubarov, follow by Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u166	Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! In recent days, the social and political situation in certain parts of the Crimea, particularly in Sudak, has increased markedly. The reasons for the tension are the relationship between Crimean Tatar returnees and local authorities, especially in the land, and far from today. Let's think about the end of the '80s, the early '90s, it was the years when they returned to Crimea on their own every year from the place of exile of 30 to 40,000 Crimean Tatars. It was then that, instead of maximizing the resettlement of people who finally came into the conflict decades later, in the direct sense of that word, to their Fatherland that the authorities then began to build new obstacles to these people. In September 1990, the then Crimean Council approved a settlement scheme for Crimean Tatars that would return to the peninsula, under which the Crimean Tatars did not allocate land for settlement in the populated areas of the south bank of Crimea. And it was in vain to explain to these officials that it was in these areas, such as Yalta, Alushta, Sudak, Simeiz, Capscor, Kutlah, Arpad, Otuz, Shuma, Bukhlambad, Kuchukosen, Dimmerji, and others. I named all the names that were changed after the deportation. Before the deportation, there was a majority of the Crimean Tatar community. Then we warned the authorities that a cynical disregard for the human right to return to the places from which he or his parents were forcibly evicted would lead to internal Crimean emigration. And if there were no land today where the Crimean Tatars were not released! No, the land is but for its own, but for the sale, but for the machination, but for those who come from outside Ukraine with great money. Thus, it is the local princes who bring division of people into the public authorities. Clearly, the foreign Tatars are here from the point of view of these officials. Why do they do that? In order for their own interests to be affected by danger by eating people to avoid their responsibility. And, in fact, in a situation where people are artificially instilled in fear and mistrust, any case at the level of life can lead to an explosion. And I'm done. In May of this year, we're going to mark a sad date: the 60th anniversary of the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people. The Ukrainian Parliament is simply obliged to consider and adopt at least one of the bills on this issue, which are registered and included in the agenda of the fifth session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Shershun's gone. Puzakov is changing places with Rudzkowski. Then please, Rudzkowski. Rudzkowski. He will be followed by Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u168	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs. On Tuesday, the Socialists voted in favour of amending Bill 4,105 on the removal of the President's election bill by Parliament. This enabled, on the one hand, to unlock the work of Parliament and, on the other hand, to move the implementation of political reform. There are so many discussions and allegations that political reform is taking place. It is or is not appropriate. And there are examples that for Ukrainian citizens, for ordinary voters, political reform is there in 20th or 23rd place. I believe that the accusations of such fellow members of my national deputies are in vain, because the simple person today is struggling with survival, the price of bread, the price of medicine, the cost of medical care, the serenity of local authority. But people often don't realize that the reason for all of this is nothing other than an imperfect system of power, and therefore carrying out constitutional reform, from the socialist point of view, is the main solution to all the social problems that Ukrainian citizens have. And so we stand clear in the position that we need to limit the President's authority so that he can't surround himself with oligarchic groups and divide between his surroundings depending on the favour of the factory and the factory, share steamers, regardless of whether it's left to him or not. And my position and the whole faction is that in Ukraine we have to balance the power of that mechanism that is in Europe. If we say that we are a European state and we accept European values, they are in constitutional change, where the President will have limited powers, and the authorities will be transferred to the government and the Supreme Council. And to confirm the need for reform for the simple electorate is the kind of saviour that happens on the ground. In Chernigov a few days ago, 53 percent of the price of hot water was raised for the city. Socialists on February 13th are organizing the town administration's care. But once again, I would point out that there would be no such permissiveness. I understand, raise by 2-3 percent, but by 53, it's a prank, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u169	The word has the national deputy of Yavorowski. He's behind him, Costinuk. You weren't in the room, so you didn't know the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u170	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block I've completed my fourth open letter to the President, but I'm not going to read it today, because I only have three minutes, so I'm going to touch two, from my point of view, painful points of our social being. The wise American president said, "If an elephant wants to go, but he's being held at his feet, it's better to let go of this leg." This reminds me of our Ukrainian authorities today, who are getting their last, literally, days. Instead of letting the elephant go, she holds him by the leg. I think that the absolute record has recently established our Ukrainian judiciary. I'm an MP who's passed a lot of laws, and I used to believe that by making our courts independent, we would immediately break into democracy. Today, I can see as a citizen of this state that our courts today depend on money, first of all, and lately they depend on power. And I suggest, my distinguished colleagues both from the opposition, and from most of the time, let's set up this list and we'll be from this rostrum, because we're here to approve these judges, we're going to call them. You should call now a Sikh judge of fame, and now they say he's assigned to a higher office, so let's take Saprikina and bring her here, say she was a good judge. And now I don't want to judge the level of international relations, but judging for one publication, closing the paper, I think Saprikina's name is going to have to be cut out somewhere. And I'm ready to add today the name of the Kyiv judge Morozov, who, looking at the very basic case of the illegality of holding these congregations, which the authorities have gathered some writers there, of which almost everyone has already refused to be there, is holding a closed-door session, not inviting anyone, on the day the 63-page decision is announced, and on the second day 270 pages. Where else has this been seen, good people? Continue these lists. And the second is that I would like to say to the ésdeans I have honored. You guys are welcome! You've already begun to take the greatest spiritual height that we have in Ukraine on January 22nd -- Taras' Mountain, the unconditional release of Igor Lichov, a wonderful Chechnya scientist who knows all about Shevchenkyan, with his bundles of sensations, without any notice, with nothing to put his man on Taras Mountain. What have we experienced, good people? Today we're going to be, all of Ukrainian intelligence, we're going to be absolutely protesting against this. Nothing! We don't have much left, just nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u171	Please, Kostinuk, prepare Frost Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u172	The National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine" is Bogdan Kostinjuk. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. The recent situation in Ukraine is terrible -- the catastrophic poverty of the population, the abandonment of officials of all ranks, the violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, the use of listed bodies to combat the opposition forces, millions of citizens who have migrated in search of livelihoods. Sadly, this sad list can be continued. The official oligarchic-clan peak has long lived by the principle: we have power, and we have citizens of the law, and the laws are not for us. At every turn, the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular its 10th article, states that the State ensures the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian in all spheres of social life and in all parts of Ukraine. Everyone knows how this article of the Basic Law is being implemented by the highest officials of the State by many parliamentarians, officials in the capital and in places. Thus, the response of law enforcement authorities should be appropriate. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Have you heard anything about a reaction to a violation of the Constitution article on the State condition of the Attorney General's Office, or have you been deprived of the licenses of television channels and radio stations that violate the Constitution on a language issue? Instead, there are examples of ending the broadcast with political motives. The simplest thing was done with Radio Rox, they sent a sansation, they shut down the antenna. The government has made its citizens beggars and forced immigrants. As long as the impoverished citizens are busy searching for bread daily, the powerful clans commit spiritual genocide by destroying Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian spirit, and thus transforming the nation into a population. As soon as the issue of compliance with language legislation is raised, for 14 years public men have warned that reckless steps in the introduction of Ukrainian language in various parts of Ukraine will cause conflict in society. This claim, to put it mildly, is false because 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens consider Ukrainian to be their native language. It is also important that we do not confuse the provision of comprehensive development and the functioning of the Ukrainian language with its implementation. In fact, such a state of modern - day Ukrainian is evidence of a chronic lack of respect for the language and culture of the title nation. On March 9, Ukraine will celebrate the 190th anniversary of the birth of a nation that has lived for ages on the shores of Dnieper and Dniester, the great Cobzar and the prophet of Ukraine, Taras Shevchenk. This day is certainly to be a festival of the greatness of the spirit and unbreakableness of the Ukrainian nation, language, culture, day of resistance to falsehood, injustice, and resistance to evil.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Frost Anatoly. After him, he's Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u174	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhailovich is missing. I'm speaking out of this rostrum just to remind you again, in my time last year, I've been speaking and talking about this situation that happened in the Zaporozhye area in the agro-industrial complex, so to speak, in a natural disaster. True, it not only affected Zaporozhye region, but Zaporez region suffered the most. He spoke of winter, spring, and autumn as a result of the unprecedented adverse conditions of winter and autumn as an unfavourable condition in 2003, killing the winter crops, which were repeatedly sifted in the spring. And as a result of the summer drought in Zaporozhye region, crops died in 310,000 ha. The transfused and newly sown fields of culture died at an area of 103.1,000 hectares. As a result of the severe drought, in 2003, over 445 million dollars were added to Zaporozhye’s agriculture. The calculations are submitted to the Cabinet. In September last year, I and my fellow Zaporozhye deputies prepared draft decree number 4128. It's being considered by the Committee of Agricultural Policy. Sadly, though, respectable colleagues who honor Adam Ivanovich still have no turn today to consider this document. And I don't think it's necessary to convince you and my fellow MPs that providing material assistance to the agro-industry complex and the country as a whole, and especially in the Zaporozhye area, to the farms affected by this drought, it might be very helpful to prepare and do spring-field work that will not start in the country tomorrow. I'll tell you that the situation in Zaporozhye doesn't get better today. It was planned to sow 500,000 acres [500,000 ha], and only 311.6 thousand were sown. In a satisfactory state there are 246,000 hectares -- that's 77 percent. Mineral fertilizers: 8.3,000 tons, and only 4 is 48 percent. And there's also not enough fuel-oil materials, an area that's only 25 percent secure -- think about these numbers. There is a lack of sown material. So I'll tell you that we, the Zaporozhye deputies, have always responded with great understanding to those needs, or to the disaster that has taken place in our country. And I would like Decree 4128, reverend Adam Ivanovich, to be brought up as soon as possible, to be brought up, but it is not coming up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u175	Thank you, your mission accomplished. Consider February 17th she stands in a good place. Now in this respect, which is proposed next week, we'll approach it. Please, National Deputy Czernovetský, prepare Puzakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u176	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Radio Listeners, People's Deputies of Ukraine. Our Ukraine, the Darnick electoral district of Kiev, the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, which I lead, Leonid Chernovetski. First of all, I want to say that this is my first speech in New Year's, and I want to start with two parts of the political force that I want to represent in the future to the Ukrainian Parliament and in the present, of course. First of all, I would like to say that I believe that Ukraine's main problem today is that we, the people's deputies, well, and most of all, these are, of course, officials of all branches of power, they are not governed by the Constitution. And I want the donors to hear that the Constitution, when we adopted it, recorded in the first part that we should follow God's principles when discussing and making any decisions, and that is the main thing. "Love your neighbor as yourself," and those who listen to our broadcast, let them think about it today, and the young will call their parents because they are waiting for this call with great anticipation. In this regard, I have submitted a bill on the oath of the Bible to all Ukrainian judges. The following decisions I make will involve the introduction of the Bible and Christian ideology into all aspects of our lives. If those who today accept my words from this high rostrum understand me, I say that there can be no national MP today, there can be no mayor today, none of those who today make important economic and political decisions in a country that does not read the Bible and follow the principles of Christianity that set out all the problems that we are trying to solve in Parliament. We don't have to talk about fuel. It's about how we help those who live around us. I did it last week. I got two letters from the mayor of Kiev, Omelchenka, who gave two apartments to my constituents. I think that's all I'd be willing to do is relive all my 52 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u177	Leonid Mikhaylovich, we've got a little bit of other rules on the game. Please, Puzakov. He's got dirt on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u178	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština People's wisdom says, "A good garbage master doesn't throw trash out on the street." Who are we? Today you can't remember the TV news and the press about the worldwide memory of the victims of the 33rd famine. How can the President of the high UN rostrum so boldly and proudly report on the famine of the 33rd and, of course, praise himself in exposing the genocide and repression of the totalitarian regime? Why don't you, Mr. President, have the courage to tell us about the famine today? Why don't you tell people honestly how far your reforms have gone? Where, in which state of the world is the equipment of giant factories being destroyed, cut and exported as metal scraps, doing business by charging their own pockets? How could you call 2003 the most prosperous, the most stable? Perhaps for you and for your environment, but most people live on food rations. People in despair are looking for salvation, but everywhere they are, they're running into a deaf wall. In this situation today, the workers of the Kirovograd’s dairy plant. How can these people live, advise, Mr. President, when, since July 2002, people have been plagued by the untimely payment of wages. Early in 2003, the company stopped at a strike, and it was said that the strikers had thrown away the bone, but not for long: from July of the month, people were again without pay. Should they starve to death? That's what happened. In the factory area, a guard named Jarowitz died without paying his salary. And the employee of this company died, and for two weeks she was lying in the morgue because there was nothing to protect her. Instead of money, the factory’s workers are offered a calculation of topping oil, which is not suitable for implementation, and they simply need to be overheated. Mr. President! Mr. Prime Minister! Allow these people to count on public services for overheated oil, since most of them have already turned off light, water, gas, and heat. The question arises, and when the factory was privatized, what did the local authorities or Kyiv’s landlord not know? Isn't it by your recommendation, Mr. President, that this hoodlum has been found? And today you've all done so well to wash your hands. What about these people who want to eat? That's why I'm addressing you, my countrymen. Hold on! Draw strength and faith. The time will come, and not one church will hold a liturgy of the memory of the victims of famine and the repression of the sovereign Ukraine in the days of Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u179	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Grzezhev. There will be a Dry One on it instead of Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u180	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I would like to address the critical issue of the purchase, sale and rental of agricultural goods. The position of socialists here was clear and clear, we stood and stand in the interest of the villagers, to preserve their right to be masters of their land, to abide by Ukraine's laws governing land relations. We have a large number of complaints about violations of the rights of land users in the faction. Here are some examples. Since September last year, in the village of Knajici Brovarsky region, a company called Alfa Capital has been operating in the village of Knežici Brovarsky, which buys land pai. The 2 hectares of the earth’s pie are estimated at 25,000 rubles. Given the fact that the land is almost at the edge of the city of Kiev, one can imagine who and how much heat there will be. By using people's low incomes, every apherist has his own dark affairs, without detesting. For example, there are green snake lovers in the villages. Well, they're already taking 5,000 bracelets. There are violations in other regions of Ukraine. I was recently in Crimea in the Saq district, where representatives of the villages of Mitjaevo, Trudové, Mihaylovka and others shouted about violations in the distribution, use and absolute deafness of the local authorities to their problems. It's not hard to figure out why this is happening. On the same occasion, I request the Attorney-General's Office, the Cabinet of Ministers, Derzcomym, to examine these facts and to take measures to influence those who ignore the laws. I have no doubt, however, that I will receive formal receipts from all over the world, because I know that most of the people in power are ideologists of such policies, and they inspire every one of them to commit such robberies. At a recent meeting with the asset of the area, respectable Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko and the head of Derjkomzem Danilenko were very much in favour of the early introduction of land into the trade, knowing that there is a moratorium on the sale of agricultural goods. The question is, "Will they be the protectors of the towns?" I doubt it myself. And I will say to the radio audience, "Dear fellow citizens, do not hope that your authority will shield you from the sting, and it is not in your interest." Therefore, the Socialist Party and the need to change the current system of power. It had therefore recently voted in favour of the Supreme Council ruling to open the way for this process. There is simply no other way to stabilize the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u181	Thank you. The word is given by the people’s deputy Suhi. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u182	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear voters! I am authorized to give an open letter to the members of the local councils, rural, rural and urban heads of the Zaporozhye region, members of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[united]] "We, the 643 members of the local councils, 52 village heads and 8 village heads, have been assigned to 28,000 united Social Democrats in the Zaporozhye area of enterprises and institutions in the land of Zaporez, and we are addressing you, the distinguished national electorate, the Ukrainian national deputies. We are ashamed to see the struggle for the personal power of the members of the so-called opposition blind you to the plight of the people of Ukraine. Is it to you who does not allow the Supreme Council to work on what they think about our state in the world, or do the so-called opposition mourn the way our veterans of war and labor, disabled people and other citizens live on, that you may be resilient in the development of domestic machinery, metallurgy, energy or agriculture, as it were? Your main task is to have power at all costs. So you had a lot of power, distinguished opponents, when you were ministers and prime ministers, heads of state committees. So it's different, and believe me, the Zaporez community has already learned to figure out who's worth and who's calling for. The foreign land where there are descendants of famous capricious Cossacks have remembered the flock of the Turkish sultan and the unfavorable expressions in it, so do not encourage the Parisians to make such frank but very good grades of your hard work, in your paws, in your struggle, as you say, with the existing regime of your own creation, to take the mind and immediately to work. Stop giggling and flying in the sky. Stand upon our sinful earth with you and work in the name and for the benefit of our nation. In view of the fact that I still have time, I am obliged to say this: "I believe and believe that no Ukrainian national deputy has the moral right to teach me or to teach me how to work, what to do, and what comments about the bills that are being considered here. It is you who, in your efforts, two years of killing the hall that have led to the fact that, today, even social legislation is being considered in a reduced procedure, which is totally unacceptable and wrong, because this is a huge threat to the admission of some legal offenses that we are then forced to correct. I hope very much and I would like to hope that those precedents that have taken place here, with microphone breakers, with screams and senseless blocking of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that all of this has remained in the past, and during the period that we have been given the history of working in the higher legislature, we will indeed serve in the name of the interests of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u183	Please, National Deputy Katusov, prepare Matthewanka Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u184	Commie faction, Katuseva, Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dear Adam Ivanovich, National Deputies, Ukrainian Citizens. The events of the last days, the recent developments in Parliament have left my constituents unwaveringly unwavering, so I will allow myself to recall that in my actions the popular electorate must be guided by the highest standards of morality, act and act with dignity as a popular electorate, as an example and a plan to which society should be equal. It is we who must be responsible for what is happening to us in the Power. Our electors expect us to carry out the high mission they have entrusted us with, the adoption of laws that will bring our country out of the chaos in which we feel and give our citizens the opportunity to live, not to die. In fact, what took place once again in the Supreme Council of Ukraine building in December 2003 and 3 February 2004, this was disgusting and more going to Chamber No. 6 than to Parliament. In general, the year of the monkeys we met under the laws of the jungle and the monkey must be pleased that the people's deputies were like her to probably approve of her, jumped, pooped, climbed on the speaker's table and threw projects and flowers, watered the bureau, ripped up microphones. I think the voters have something to think about. The electorate must be aware of his woes in the face so as not to be deceived in the next election by a cultured, high-educated and educated person who behaves in all circumstances. This makes him different from the animals. As the Speaker of Parliament noted, they were indeed not human beings, but beasts. It is not normal for such acts to go unpunished. With pride for my friends and my faction comrade, I would like to emphasize from this high rostrum that, as always, the communists have endured with honour and dignity. And watering us with more dirt and speculation and blackmail. But, as we know, dirt only sticks to those for whom it is a normal habitat. The rich political experience, intuition and objective in-depth analysis of developments in the country have enabled Communists, as always, to endure all pressures. Our voters had another opportunity to conclude who is who. People’s deputies often speak of love and pride for their Fatherland. Eastern wisdom says, "If you don't speak, the halva in the mouth won't be sweet." A true patriot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u185	Thank you, Zara Hafarovno. The word is given by the national deputy, Matthewenko. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u186	Paul Matvienko, 66 Corestinsk constituency, Party of National Economic Development of Ukraine, faction of "Regions". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In the city of Korosten, the Gitomir region, there was an event that deserved immediate intervention by the central and local executive authorities. For violations of sanitary legislation and for the purpose of warning of outbreaks of infectious diseases since February 4, 2004, the maternity ward of Corstene hospital has been halted until the issue of immediate repairs of the building, rehabilitation and treatment of medical personnel who have been exposed to the domination of the golden stafilokok has been resolved. Provided with the necessary disinfectants for the purpose of maintaining the sanitary anti - epidemiology regime. The point is that this is the only maternity home in the town of Corostene and Corstene region, where pregnant women are sent from five surrounding areas of the Gitomir region. In view of the extreme complexity of the situation, with a view to warning the epidemiological danger that has arisen, I am requesting the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to allocate 150,000 dollars of budget to carry out appropriate anti - epidemiological measures and repairs for the immediate restoration of the maternity ward in Korosten. In addition, I would like to raise the issue of the merger of medical services in Corosten, where the city, district, and railway hospitals function at the only regional health center with targeted budgetary funding. The city and the district authorities are ready for such a merger, although some outsiders are known for the interests of the railway hospital. This medical center is primarily needed for the treatment and prevention of the diseases of citizens living in contaminated areas in the northern regions of the Žitomir region. In this regard, I ask the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, the Zitomir government, the district council to consider this issue and find ways to resolve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, prepare Polishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u188	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. It is a pleasure to start work again and speak before our constituents and. I don't know. Problems arise from the inside of society, and from this rostrum I would like to remind our government today, which has many irresponsible people working inside: why such problems arise. First and foremost. According to article 80, paragraph 42, of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's 2004 State Budget" of 1.01.2004, article 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On Pensions" ceases for special merit before Ukraine. In the part of the introduction of special merit pensions, there are pensions before Ukraine at the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, located in the area of Kyiv, Sevastopol City Administrations. Thus, from 01.01.04 to persons subject to article 6.8, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits, the examination of documents for special merit has been discontinued. This category refers to the veterans of the Great Homeland War, who were rewarded during the wartime by the Orders, the Medal of Courage or the Medal of Usakow, the guerrillas of the Great Homeland War, awarded the Medal of Courage, the persons who were awarded the honorary titles of Ukraine, the MPs of all four local councils, the mothers who gave birth to five and more children and raised them until they were eight years old. The circumstances that have been explained will cause social tension to grow. I realize that this attitude toward this population category does not give us a positive picture of our government. And most of all, I wanted to read a letter, and thank you to this woman, Bibik Maria Mikolayevna, village of Vodjanka, region of Cherka. She writes, "The treatment for us is completely unavailable, about the food we want to eat, they're not available to us either. To get that answer when we asked them to give us back our books, and they wrote us, we'll give 150 dollars to your offspring after you've died." And she's going to the Supreme Council of Lithuania and the Ministry of Finance demanding our savings back. "Perhaps a little rough of my letters, but believe me, the patient has already broken in." The letter concluded that if they cannot find a solution to these questions, give your jobs back to the Communists, who have a positive solution to our painful issues and have decided, will return our savings, and so on. But what she's saying is, I'm sorry, "Where's that? You know, we have a lot of pain in our house, cold and hungry, and it would be a pleasure to watch our old TV. Oh, come on! Including television, one shame is prostitution, banditry, and we just want to watch some good movies: "Flying cranes," " Ivan Brovkin," "Early Love", "Early Officers." We have repeatedly written in the directorate of Ukrainian Television. Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u189	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. Please, Polishchuk. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u190	Mikola Polishtuk, 214th constituency, Kiev, Our Ukraine faction, Victor Yushchenka's constituency. Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! I would like to draw the attention of the President, the government to the social protection of medical, educational and cultural workers who are now below the poverty line, which is below the minimum wage. This is the large group of people who are on the watch for preservation, for the health that teach our children education, are the people who are on the watch for the spirituality of the nation. For the government's sake and for the support of the Presidential majority of the Supreme Council, these people have remained outside the poverty line at a minimum wage of 205 dollars. The government in all the trumpets blows that social budget. So where is this social orientation of the budget when you can't make a living? The other one. How much noise per pension: they will be counted according to the wage level. So what kind of pension will medical, educational, and cultural workers have in the future? Once again, it's a pitiful one that won't let you live. The government, the President, the authorities are unable to provide a decent life for the elite of Ukraine, and this is really an elite. Our children win prizes at international competitions, our actors perform successfully at the most prestigious festivals, competitions, our medics show themselves well in extreme situations. This is Chernobyl, Turkey and Iran. The hospital in Iran showed itself on the best of terms, provided highly qualified assistance to thousands of people, and began its work as one of the first: only 10 days later, the UN hospital began working. The world’s public recognizes our medics, and the authorities are preparing a beggarly life for them today and when they retire. We can't find reserves today, and these are reserves, and we know that between six billion and eight billion are hidden in the budget to raise the minimum wage for education, medicine, cultural workers today, and so that they can earn a decent pension for which they can live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of School. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u192	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to emphasize that my performance has touched. laser discs, was part of the performance that I've prepared now, which touches the proper Ukrainian language, the use of it in all spheres of life. The question of 18 million is about people who. Ukrainians who recognize the only language of communication. That's why I stressed 18 million Ukrainians. They're 48 or 46 with different data. It used to be 52. Now it's 46. But that's not the point. I would like to emphasize once again that there is simply respect for the State itself for the laws that this State must abide by. Questions about native language. In Slovakia, only 30 percent of the population recognize Slovak as their native language, but the national language is Slovak and every licensed product, every official product, every official edition is published in Slovak and only there is Slovak television, and there is no other. Everyone else who wants information in their own language -- Hungarian, Gypsy or Polish -- gets it through the official editions that come out in the territory of neighbouring countries. And in general, Ukrainian language has now long been turned into such, you know, a kitchen official language in Ukraine. I mean, in the kitchen, we talk and we listen to cheap attempts to learn Ukrainian literally on the rostrum, whether it's the Supreme Council or in front of TV cameras. There are trials. Unfortunately, there are no results, so the Ukrainian language has already been converted into a language of national minorities in Ukraine. And another thing I'd like is a national minority. Although in principle, the state is called "Ukraine." It's kind of ironic about that. And two more words. The previous performances were built, you know, and I listened to these speeches, and these were the words of Anna Herman, who was a "durman of sweet cheers" from those words. We went down 15-20 years ago at a convention. The answer was to improve, the only force in the direction and the party that has not betrayed. Of course, that might be good, but I don't like coming back to this "deja vu." So I would like to point out that now the main task facing every person who is hurting for the future of this Ukrainian state is to make it clear to himself. There are things you can't get past. What happened to the newspaper "The Village News," that's what you can't go over, because to destroy, destroy, eliminate the newspaper, they used the lowest, least standard situation -- to ban the newspaper for having published a book that, this book, is still sold freely and peacefully in Ukraine. This has been spat again, shaken up, and so many people can then talk about guidance.: Victory will follow us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u193	Thank you. The word has been given to the national MP Tomenko. Follow him, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u194	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! I wanted to draw your attention to one very important initiative that the media have been talking about for two days in a row, the initiative of President Leonid Kuma to put order in traffic. I'd like to inform the radio audience that Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the other opposition factions have been calling attention to the fact that in Ukraine, in the middle of transport, drivers are white and black, muddy and muddy, and those who have long refused and are not going to follow traffic rules. We are pleased that Leonid Kuchma has finally seen that we have a situation with road transport and traffic rules just like this, but I would like to say that if the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not inform the President, I am prepared to inform the President that, apart from the news numbers of the AP, KM, VR that he wants to ban, and that is absolutely fair, and I support it, we need to ban the order of ten other prominent specialized norms and series that the police do not stop, she knows that they are issued by special or specific ministers, or by specific officials. It has already come to the point that we have, in addition to the U.S., II mud series, which have been published by various interior ministers. We've already reached the point where the Ministry has issued a series of NNs with an administrative and territorial unit of 28. At first I thought it might be the island of Kosa Tuzl or some other unit, because under the Constitution we have 27 administrative-territorial units. The minister told me it's for regional communications. It seems that other cars drive only in separate areas. The most interesting thing is that this pear company, which was carried out by the President's Administration, is clearly not going to lead to anything, because yesterday Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic became the first violator of the President's orders. Yesterday, he visited the Cherkas region and blocked the traffic between Goldilocks and the Chercass for several hours. People stood there waiting for him to look at Chercassa and come back. So if the President wants to make the order as he said yesterday, I don't think there's going to be much benefit from this pear company for drivers. That is why I would ask the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers, until they comply with traffic rules, like all ordinary citizens, not to go to the areas of Ukraine to harm the Ukrainian people's agriculture. You better sit here in Kiev, work, make decisions, and act in accordance with current legislation. And I would like to take this opportunity to remind the government and the Prime Minister once again of the serious problem of enlightenment. The Prime Minister here himself said he would solve the problem. So far, you know, the sanepidem station has shut down the antenna and the radio rock transmitter, and so far there's no broadcast in the FM-range from the Supreme Council session. I think the government will solve this problem. And in the next session in the FM range, we're going to listen to the Supreme Council session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u195	Please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u196	Eugene Hoornik, Valley Electoral District 89, "Our Ukraine" Block. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. The electronic and print media adopted by oligarchs combine the population for a year with at least two thesaurus. The first thesis, purely Stalinic, under the wise direction of the party. Leonidas Danilovich and the government of Viktor Yanukovic became better, life became funnier. And the thesis of the second, denoted by the word "but." In everything that is bad in the state, however, Victor Yushchenko, Julia Timoshenko, and their opposing associates are guilty. Aggressive couples like Jangirov-Korczynski are exposed in all areas and regions of the regime, and, freedom of speech is understood only as the right to shoot people in the back, which is what they do successfully. I hope it's temporary, because their time is up, like Kuchma's time. But as the government does its job, people see it every day. I want to give you a few examples. Spiritual Needs. The 2003 budget allocated 10 million dollars of Hold Info to produce the full Taras Shevchenk. In a month, we're going to celebrate the 190th anniversary of his birth, and we're going to find out that the holding of the edition didn't complete and pass on to the following year. Indignant! You would try not to publish Lenin’s or Brezhev’s works and for them to do so. Fact Two. At the end of the year, the Treasury reported that Kabmin’s reserve had not been met, but an impressive succession was that the government refused to allocate these funds to repair the school’s crash roof or to rebuild the burned cultural monument of the Kaluchs School of Culture. This attitude toward the cultural sphere and the promises of the following year, which are kept secret. The mainstream media seem to be dwindling, and they don't mention the price increase on the food products in June-July this year and the government's unfulfilled promise to bring them back to their level. Budgetians are still dealing with Mr. Azarov's brilliant mathematical discoveries, 205 more than 237, the Constitutional Court teaches that one plus one is equal to one. Seventy percent of pensioners wonder how to repay a government that has blessed them from one to six dollars in retirement. Again comes the moment when the dissidents have to be guided by the slogans, "Don't believe, don't be afraid, don't be silent." Let us not allow ourselves to be transferred to the center of this criminal gang, nor let us go back to the communist past nor to the criminal present. We have a civilized future behind us if we fight for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-06-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, the time we have taken for various, exhausted meetings will be concluded today. I'd like to remind you one more time, especially our radio audience. The chairman doesn't turn off the microphone. Don't blame the chairman for doing this. This is done as we agreed with you, with a proper automatic system. We've already done what we've done, Yuri Anatolyovich. Next week, I think you'll be among the first to sign up for different things and have the opportunity to express yourself. I'd like that. To the next plenary. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that next week, February 9-13, we are working with you on committees, factions, groups. I remind you that 10 February at 10 a.m. is going to be the government day on which we have two issues to consider. It's about the state of conservation of socio-cultural objects in the privatization process and the purpose of their use, the post-privatization period. And one more question is the summation of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2003 and the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2004. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you for being a part of the job.
