ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. People's deputies please come into the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:19]] Registered -440 Registered in the 440 National Deputies Session Room. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. A draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the conservation and purposeful use of social objects during their privatisation and postprivatization period is being introduced. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, the head of the special control committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. A draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers on the status of conservation of social objects in the process of privatization and their use in the postprivatization period is under consideration. We discussed it in detail, discussed it at the committee meeting. I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put it on the ground, and after the committees have sent me the answers in writing, taking into account yesterday's session of the commission that we conducted with education, we'll work it out and bring it into the session room. Here all of the mechanisms we've worked out, what documents we need to make, what legislation we're going to need to work on. And in addition, we'll take the first part of the scientific expertise department's observations into account, which is actually the commission agrees. Let's take it as a base. And I want to go to all the leaders of groups and factions: we sent you letters to send us comments and suggestions. Ask them to submit on the following Sunday. You have a week for this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of conservation of socio-cultural objects in the process of privatization and their purpose in the post-privatization period. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u4	Please be supportive. [[16:03:27]] For 316
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u5	Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u6	Thank you. Committee leaders, please make suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u7	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4194. The first deputy chairman of the committee, Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u8	Dear National Deputies! I'm told don't speak, let's just vote. I think that would be best. But I'll tell you a few words. I reported this bill yesterday, especially from our committee. And I'm asking you to support him. What are we talking about? It is about banning spring hunting, that is, in March and April months for a migratory bird. And why should it be banned? I'll give you just a few numbers. When this hunt was conducted, that is, the bird’s head, the number of birds fell sharply. For example, geese. If there were 730,000 geese in 1995, there are now 217 thousand in 2002. Well, look, it's a three-fold reduction. Similarly, we can speak against the tyrant, so we can talk about other birds. If we were to consider today the number of animals, the picture is the same, the decrease of several times So, honourable national MPs, I'm addressing you. What will we leave our children and grandchildren if we do not ban the spring hunt? I'm not talking about hunting there in the summer and autumn, but in the spring it should be banned. A committee to support this bill. It's so editorial, it's time to make an application. The first paragraph should be worded this way. "In the third part of the first part of article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting, the words "in March-April" are deleted. [["News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 2000, No. 18, article 132]] That's why I, honourable national MPs, ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u9	Zarubinsky. Dear colleagues, this is a discussion. Please, Zarubinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear John Alexanderovich. There are many lovers of hunting. But there are also people who think that hunting wild animals, wild ducks that have flown 2-3 thousand kilometers and then fed and in an unsuspecting state to kill them, it's not humane. Don't you think hunting is a human instinct to undo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to remove all questions. We discussed it, and now the vote is coming, and yesterday we discussed this bill. I'll put it to a vote. Taking into account the proposals just made by John Zayj, to adopt a bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting concerning terms, registration number 4194, with the exception of the Hare, please vote. [[16:07:05]] For 261 Decision taken. Let's make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u12	I suggest we take it as a whole, because there's nothing to add and nothing to take away, dear. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u13	Is there a denial? I can't, there's a denial. If you don't mind, raise your hand. Please, Samowinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, reverend Ivan Alexandrovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the law is necessary. And it's been adopted a long time. We're talking about the standard of use. And we have legislation that regulates that. The head of the State Committee on Forestry is responsible for hunting or hunting, and the Minister of Ecology agrees. And if the minister of ecology doesn't agree to spring hunting, it won't be done. And what Ivan Alexanderovich said yesterday that 50 years was gone is, indeed, yes. It was only once when the minister was John Alexanderovich and he signed it. And I was the Minister of the Forest, and I signed the law, and I signed my order. If we didn't sign it with him, he wouldn't be. So today, in the Supreme Council Hall, talk when you hunt a goose, a rabbit, a fox. What, we got nothing to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u16	Dear Valery Ivanovich, if you will listen, Ukraine does not need any legislation. For that reason, there is legislation to regulate these processes. That's the first one. Secondly, I'm addressing you people's deputies, if we don't now vote in general, it's going to mean that in March we're going to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, who denies what we voted in general? Do you mind? No, it's not. Listen, you're teaching me to live! I'm asking you, who says no, raise your hand? They deny it, all of it. Work on it. It's being announced. Let's move on to the next one, for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. May I have your attention, please? Draft Law on Reforming the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I am voting on the inclusion of the draft law on reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces into the agenda of the day session. [[16:10:03]] For 342 Decision taken. Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich. What Rules does the Committee propose?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to make your point that now it's not about ducks or rabbits -- it's about the fate of the hundreds of thousands of people to be cut down this year. Of course, we need to make decisions. But look at the documents we've been given. They are not balanced in terms of social security, because the budget does not provide for the corresponding amounts. In this context, the faction "Our Ukraine" suggests that we have not considered this law and voted today, let's look at it separately, tomorrow, perhaps we will go a little beyond the scope of the procedure, with financial justification, because we have no right to leave the military at any time: no job prospects, no social security, no housing. That's why I'm asking. We put it in the agenda, but we look at it separately, according to a special procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. Since we are now involved in the matter, we are considering it. After considering the matter, we always make decisions. But this does not mean that we will make the final decision. Moreover, the chairman of the committee at the Conciliation Council informed the National Deputies that it was likely necessary to go to the second reading of the document. Because we're going to look at it, it's going to be your will -- we're going to take it as a base, and then we're going to work on it. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u20	Lucenko, Socialist faction. Honourable national MPs are known to be able to carry out military reform properly and can be carried out as proposed by President Kuchma: to carry it out without budgeting, to carry it out, with the help of tens of thousands of people on the street without apartments, adequate social security and prospects in the future. Our faction categorically rejects today’s stretching of this law from a shoelace, for even the name of this law does not correspond to its fulfillment. The law absolutely does not provide for a reduction mechanism, as required in a normal, legal, social state. We strongly insist on moving this issue forward after the work of both the committee and the ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u21	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to emphasize, first of all, what we supported, what we put into the agenda -- and we had to put it off, because Thursday is not the day that we can pay attention to such an important law. There are other laws that need to be voted on and passed. Second, a shortcut. Here we have to think about whether or not to cancel the question. If Ukraine is capable of supporting 600,000 militia personnel, 600,000 militias, why can't it support 300,000 army personnel? Once again, the army is very thin matter. It's people, it's the power of the state, it's the protection of this state from the enemies that we have too much. So I'm also stressing the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, I'm stressing that we should postpone this law, not look at it very quickly right now, because it's kind of like lobbying. Lobby in this situation, when it comes to human life, is not acceptable to defend the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u23	People's MP Singeruk, the Socialist faction, and we're moving on to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u24	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmělničina I believe that this law cannot be considered today in substance, because reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces is an extremely serious issue, both for national security and for social protection reasons or for those people who are being thrown into the streets today. There are virtually no guarantees in the draft law for the hundreds of thousands who have dedicated themselves to military affairs that have dedicated themselves to protecting their homeland. And that's why we can't consider this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u25	Dear national deputies, Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, this question is included today in the agenda from the very morning, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and Minister, we are watching, and the deputies are waiting to report this question today. And so it's just not possible to put it off. Your correct suggestion was: To listen briefly today, to accept it as a basis, and to read secondly, we will give more attention, to discuss all the issues that will lie ahead of the adoption of this law as a whole. So I'd like you to go to the discussion and acceptance on the basis of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes such a regulation. May I have your attention, please? For the defense minister's report - 15 minutes, questions and answers - 5 minutes, report - 10 minutes, answers to questions - 5 minutes, 15 minutes of discussion, only 50 minutes. Is there no objection? Please, Eugene Kirilovich, Minister of Defense for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! To find out why it is necessary to start a radical reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces this year, we must tell the truth about the real state of affairs within the Ukrainian Armed Forces themselves. That's the truth. As a result of the long-term chronic underfunding of the Armed Forces and the virtual lack of funding for scientific research and research and development, the purchase of arms and military technology has all led to a catastrophic state of military science, particularly in the scientific research and the military-industrial complex. Even in 2004, the largest in the budget for independence years, less than 1 per cent of research and research is allocated to less than one per cent of research and engineering, to the purchase of arms and technology, and also less than a percentage, to the property of 0.3 per cent. So today 80 percent of our budget is going to support the Armed Forces. This is the budget for food and the budget for the degradation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Today, military support is compared to other military formations below 30 percent. The salary of the civilian personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which is 90,000 people, is twice the average salary in Ukraine. 86 percent of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are paid below the statutory minimum of living, which is practically at the poverty line. For health care in the budget only 32 percent of normal needs, last year there were 16 percent. The fuel is 35 percent, and the aviation gas is only 2 percent of the normal demand. The vast majority of technical and complex weapons complexes and samples of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have exhausted their resources or it ends in 2004-2005. The current life support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is being made virtually out of wheels, military supplies in the rear make up about 35 percent, and they are shrinking rapidly. Officers, flagpoles, military personnel on a contract to the Division are provided with only a field uniform. Every year, Ukraine loses 9 percent of its fighting potential. Over the past few years, all European countries have come to realize that not the number of the Armed Forces determines their military power, but the level of their equipment with modern weapons, new controls, intelligence, skills in the task force. That is why almost all our neighbors are undergoing radical reform of their armed forces. The show is published just recently, a few weeks ago, a program to reform the German Armed Forces in the next few years, where the fighting forces will have a total of 90 thousand. Military personnel and about 150,000. - it's part of the security. The draft law that we are considering today is based on the decision of the National Commission for Reform and Development of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Security Council and in accordance with the decree of the President of Ukraine and with the aim of providing a strategic course for our nation to create a mobile modern army capable of carrying out the task of defending Ukraine, protecting its sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity and the adequate economic capabilities of the state. The experience of the leading countries of Europe testifies. It is possible to balance the structure of the budget only through the structural reconstruction of the Armed Forces, the decisive withdrawal of surplus weapons and military equipment, the removal of unnecessary infrastructure. This is a global trend. Virtually all nations have crossed a three-species structure, and there is a general reduction of the Armed Forces, giving priority to the development of rapid response forces, the quality of rearming and the transition to a professional assembly system. The large-scale transformations to be made, namely: modernization of the Armed Forces structures, further optimization of their numbers, improvement of the assembly system, restocking of arms, require a comprehensive solution to legislative, defence, socio-economic, scientific, economic and other problems. The draft law lays down the legal basis for bringing the structure and numbers of the Armed Forces into line with new tasks and ensuring the proper social protection of military personnel and their families. In this way, we would like to emphasize the specific draft law that has a complex nature and covers both the issue of reform of the Armed Forces and the most important areas of social protection. This is the approach the government considers most acceptable because it takes into account the complexity of the reform process and the current socio-psychological situation in the military environment. By the end of 2005, it is envisaged to move to the three-species structure of the Armed Forces, through the integration of military and air defence forces into the only kind of air force. As well as the decommissioning of one operational command, the downgrading of the main commanders of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and operational commands, the transformation of the aviation and PPO units into air command, the deployment of some 150 high-cost military structures, 20 percent of which are in combat and 80 percent on technical and rearward security. These are the parts and compounds that have lost their fighting potential in terms of the state of weapons and military equipment. And their retention results in the spending of state funds, which inhibits the further development of the Armed Forces. If you take the total number of their individual compositions, it is 155 thousand people, including 49,000 workers. Reductions in military liaison and military units have been planned, including the administration of operational commands - one, five, divisional and five, and the 24th, regiments - 17. At the same time, the transition to a tri-species structure and the reduction of intermediate lines will significantly increase the efficiency of management and will cost nearly 40 percent the cost of maintaining a new species. It should be noted that the reduction of the Armed Forces will in no way result in a reduction in their fighting potential. This will be achieved by increasing the combination of regular combat preparedness and the development of functional structures of the combined rapid response force. In addition, the military warehouse, which will form the foundation of the Armed Forces in 2005, is now equipped with the most capable weapons and military equipment, what is now in the Armed Forces. At the end of 2005, the Ukrainian Armed Forces will have command and type of the Armed Forces three, species command; operational commands two; military units three; squadrons one; air commands two; ground troops: brigade 19, regiments - 45; air force: air brigades - 9, of which 6 combat, anti-aircraft regiments - 16. Basic weapons and military techniques: tanks are going to be 880, not three and a half thousand now; combat-armed machines are 2750, that's almost half of what's being held today; air-rocket complexes are about 400, and so on. The delay in optimizing the military force’s military and military composition and in doing so will have an impact on the level of preparation for the technological upheaval, the transformation of weapons and military equipment into scrap metal, and will not solve the social problems of military personnel and their families. And the main thing is that time is going to be lost. Therefore, our common goal is to ensure the full functioning of the Armed Forces as the main subject of the state’s military organization. Thus, planned measures to optimize the military and numerical composition, avoid unnecessary spending by the Armed Forces of funds, will help to stop the inefficient use of financial resources, including the maintenance of unnecessary property and infrastructure, and initiate the process of acquisition by the Armed Forces of rice belonging to the leading European states. These are just individual arguments and parameters for the need to reform the Armed Forces. They and others are detailed in the Ukrainian Armed Forces Reform Programme, which is reviewed and endorsed by the State Commission for the Reform of the Armed Forces, led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and considered by the National Security and Defence Council. Now it's the most painful. Since such reform has not yet been experienced by the Armed Forces of Ukraine on a scale or scale, it is essential that the most pressing social problems be solved. These include further employment, adaptation to civilian life, pensions, and housing problems. I will pay special attention to the basic position of the fifth article, which is to be approved by all military officials. It provides for the calculation of the pension from the monthly allowance on the day of release. What does this give a soldier? First of all, the calculation of pensions for types of financial security such as salary at the end of office, salary for military rank, interest allowances for seniority, academic and scientific degrees, qualifications and conditions of service that are now being carried out to the maximum extent in accordance with the President's decree. In the end, this will allow a 30 - percent increase in the number of retired military personnel. It is also proposed to create additional conditions for the acquisition of the right to a pension and for those military personnel who have less than six months to receive a retirement pension. They're going to be holding state by state during this period so that the pension security guarantees are implemented. The bill provides for a higher level of social protection and for those military personnel who do not have the right to a pension and will need further employment. In addition to those six months, they will be able to receive material aid for up to six months and, if they register with the State Employment Service, they will be able to obtain unemployment assistance without taking into account the limitations that exist today in accordance with current legislation. The reform will not be missed by military educational institutions, so the bill provides for the possibility of further training of students in other schools to be established by the State, and such documents, along with the Ministry of Education, are already being prepared. It is proposed to establish additional guarantees for housing. In 2004, eight thousand 740 officers and flags are expected to be released, and in 2005, 10,000 986 people, i.e. for two years, are 19 and a half thousand. This year’s budget provides 304 million dollars to deal with the housing problems of military personnel. There is also a receivable to the Ministry of Defense, which was about 248 million dollars. As a result of the 60 measures that have been taken, there is still more than 200 million dollars in receivables. In addition, there is an additional resource in the form of land in the Ministry of Defence. According to our calculations, it can provide an additional two thousand apartments, but this will require parliamentary support. The implementation of the bill, together with the existing provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, will ensure an appropriate level of protection for military personnel. For example. An army officer with the military rank of colonel in his post as senior officer and with the benefit of the military service for 25 calendar years will receive a pension of a thousand and a sum of 545 dollars and a retirement allowance of 29 thousand and 725 dollars, and he will also receive appropriate assistance in the event of a change in his residence. Honourable national MPs, the financial resources provided by the National Budget for Ukraine for this year, provide a major opportunity to start reforming the Armed Forces to halt the pattern of destruction and degradation. In 2006, as a result of the 2004-2005 reform, the withdrawal of military organisms that I've already talked about, which have lost their fighting potential, and the reduction in the number of armed forces -- this will give the economy about 500 million dollars, according to the calculations that can already be made for the development of the Armed Forces. Such an amount has never been paid in years of independence. Yesterday, at a meeting of the State Committee on Defence and State Security, a detailed discussion of the bill was held, and many pertinent comments were made, including the name. They will certainly be all accounted for, there is a positive expert conclusion accordingly. And I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u29	Sign up for questions, dear colleagues. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Mikola Nightshenko will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Reverend Eugene Kirilovich, the very idea of shortening the Ukrainian Armed Forces, I think this room is supported by everyone. But I have a question for you. Although you said that the main funding for 2004 is provided. But if you read your explanatory note, you write that for 2004, you need 690 million.380 thousand grand. At the same time, the State Budget Act only provides for $368 million, which is almost half. And what are we going to do, in my district, is two huge military units, what are we going to do about those people that are going to shrink? How are we going to employ them, how are we actually going to set them up? So, Reverend Eugene Kirilovich, I would like to hear how this relates to the 2004 State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u31	Thank you. First of all, the explanatory note was prepared when the argument was presented in the first version of our budget query, where there were 6.4 billion, after the adoption of the budget of 4.93 billion. These arguments have been updated and today they represent such values. In general, for all the needs related to reform, today there are about 700 million in the budget that you have approved. In particular, the payout for the release is 410 million, the payment of cash assistance during employment is 69 million, the lifting aid for the transfer is 14.2, the pay for the shipment is 6, the housing security is 304, I've already said, and so on. We realize that there are still reserves to strengthen social security, and we are aware of such offers. We support them hotly, of course, with proper government calculations. On the other hand, what is involved with employment. We have studied well today, and we know the labor market. Today we have cooperation with the National Employment Centre, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and the Ministry of Family and Youth. Appropriate agreements have been prepared, and after the adoption of this bill, we are being put into effect. And what that means, you know. There are positive trends in the labour market. They're still small, but together they're positive. The number of jobless decreases, the number of jobs slightly increases. But it's really a tough, tiny job. To that end, they have prepared appropriate documents that provide for individual work with each military officer during a preliminary study of the status of the case in the part that will be disbanded. Not the moment it came, but the year before. That is, if the military is to be disbanded in October 2005, it does not mean that this part will begin in October. There will be a preparatory period that will allow many questions to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u32	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u33	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich! Nightshenko, 160 constituency. The reform has already begun with you. If you had previously had generals in the government's bed, represented, now you're women's generals. I have two questions. First. I would like you to repeat the goal of reform again, and what military doctrine remains: defensive, offensive, or helpful to the neighbors. That's the first one. And the second. Speaking of the problems of the social plan, I wanted you to concentrate and give an answer to what fate for today awaits 580 military towns, where there are about 500,000 people. You know that the military part of the entire social infrastructure and output is a social issue that goes beyond your authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u34	Thank you. The goal of reforming the Armed Forces is primarily to create conditions such that the military service is prestigious so that the military personnel get twice as much money as they're getting now, and I've already told you, 30 percent less military support compared to other strong structures. The second is to create an infrastructure that is not burdensome for the economy. And the third. Get rid of the fighting and other parts that have lost their potential and will never be restored. The commission behind the commission, when checked, concludes: Part is not ready. Three or four years in a row. The question of what is needed by the Armed Forces of Ukraine is the sky - high part that eats costs when there are normal parts nearby and can be strengthened by classroom specialists who will be in those parts that are evolving, namely, the creation of modern - day armed forces that are well equipped and the correction of the hypertrophy budget that is today. We've practically come to a limit that's already been signaling itself in two or three years by means of impressions and combat techniques. As far as military towns are concerned. Indeed, it is also a paradox. Today, honourable national deputies, the budget provides for and spends more than 400 million dollars. The money for the maintenance of military towns is about three thousand. Many of them are not needed. And it is this year alone that about 90 military towns are to be removed from the Armed Forces and 130 more in the following year, that is, 220 military towns will be evacuated in just two years, either to local governments or to municipal property or to government authorities. But there is still an extra moment in this regard. Recently, the government has decided to organize this problem so that the transfer of military towns is not burdensome for the local authorities or for the military’s budget. You can see that in detail in the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u35	Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich. Time's up. The word for the report is given by the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Prepare Peter Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The reform of the Armed Forces, including the large-scale measures reported by the Minister of Defence by the government, is being carried out in accordance with the political decisions of the National Security and Defence Council, approved by the decrees of the President of Ukraine. Taking into account the acute problems that arise from this, our committee initiated and the Ministry of Defence supported the drafting of a bill that would not only establish new numbers and the overall structure of the Armed Forces, as proposed, but that attention should be focused on the social problems that arise in the reform process. Taking care of the country's protectors who are being released from the army, which is 155 grand. of the population, including 105,5 000. The military, about the members of their families, is, we believe, a key central issue in the reform process. We must not overlook today’s state of the Armed Forces as discussed by the minister. During the years of independence in Ukraine, our army did not actually receive any new pattern or weaponry. The Ukrainian army is mainly equipped with third - generation weapons, whereas the United States, NATO, and the Fourth and Fifth Generations. In addition, most of the weaponry technology over the next three or five years will exhaust its resources. In the meantime, the government’s weapons and military technology development programme, which has been under discussion for several years, has not yet been approved. The programme for the reform of the defence and industrial complex has only recently been mandated by the President's decree to develop. The cost of maintaining a special warehouse, which is almost 90 percent of the budget allocated to military intelligence, is nearly enough to feed more or less decent soldiers with only one set of military uniforms. The Ministry doesn't even have the option of keeping things. Other problems are well - known. The measures reported by the minister have been taken in mixed terms. Some believe that the army should be reduced to not to 200,000, but to 100 to 150 or even 50,000. On the other hand, there are fears that any reduction in the armed forces could threaten the security of our country. The careful calculations made by military experts, the Ministry of Defence, the Council of National Security and Defence give reason to believe that the proposed scales of reduction for the time being are optimal. An analysis of developments in the geopolitical environment, real and potential threats, recent developments in the world, especially NATO's action in Yugoslavia, American-British aggression, indicates that the victory in today's war does not determine the numbers of the Armed Forces, nor the Armadas, tanks, although no army can afford them, but high-precision weapons, objective information, that is, effective intelligence, secure air space, high military professionalism. As a state whose military doctrine is defensive, Ukraine cannot fail to bear in mind that our neighbors in both the West and the East are qualitatively strengthening their Armed Forces, citing huge costs. On the western borders of Ukraine there is a new fearsome curtain, and in the territory of our neighbours, new NATO members Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, are moving American military bases that were still in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. So in reforming the Armed Forces, we have to make sure that there is no way we can prevent the country's defenses from falling down, refocus our efforts to refuel our army with a high-precision weapon that, by the way, is capable of creating and producing a domestic defence and industrial complex. A few comments in connection with the consideration of the subject. First. According to the Constitution, the definition of the overall structure of numbers, the functions of the Armed Forces, are referred to the exclusive powers of the Supreme Council. Meanwhile, the number that was approved for the beginning of this year was 35,000 less than the number established by law. Our committee has repeatedly drawn the attention of both the President and the government and the Ministry of Defense to the need to act in the legal field. The other one. The military forces' reduction parameters, as defined by the President's decrees, have become known to the media and, through them, to the public more than six months ago. In places that have long known which military structures will be reformed, who will be released from the army. People go through commissions and so on. But how will social problems be solved? It's not solved. This has caused a dangerous increase in the moral and psychological situation in the military and in society. It took several months for an appropriate bill to be prepared. Finally, it was approved by a government committee, a state commission for the reform of the Armed Forces and the Cabinet of Ministers. The project was sent to the President by me and the minister on November 14 for support and referral to the Supreme Council. We thought that the legislative initiative on such an important issue should be revealed by the President himself. That's not what happened. For almost a month, a bill submitted by the government was on Bank. In the document -- they changed his name, we think, failed, to narrow down the social component of the project substantially. After I had asked the President in writing to expedite the introduction of the draft law to the Supreme Council on February 4th, the bill of February 6 from the Presidential Administration was returned to the Cabinet of Ministers for consideration by Parliament. To be honest, I can't understand the position of the head of state, the Commander-in-Chief of her Armed Forces. Although, I don't know if Leonid Danilovich Kuchma has been introduced to us. I've told you so much about this so that our people, first of all the military, know what the attitude is in this country on these issues. The third, reform and development of the Armed Forces depend decisively on proper funding. I'm a long way from the optimism with which I highlighted these questions, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. The situation is much more complicated. For some reason, the government has failed to comply with the two Presidential decrees on this issue. Here will be my colleague, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, so I will not touch this issue. The problem remains very acute to remove the pension gap of citizens who have been released from military service until 1992 and in the years to come. Ukraine is or is not the only country in the Commonwealth of Independent States that has failed to fulfil its obligations regarding the just retirement of its supporters. In considering the bill, most of the members of our committee expressed their support for recommending that the Supreme Council accept it in the first reading, but they made very serious comments. We need to bring the title of the law into line with the content, and most importantly, we need to step up for the citizens who are being released from the army, who are being provided with the social security project. In agreement with the Committee on Budget Affairs, we will work together on financial security for the reform of the Armed Forces. Depending on the correct solution, it will be necessary to continue to take steps to reform the Armed Forces or to carry out them. And the last thing I would like to say is that the situation in the reform of the Armed Forces, the resolution of the social problems of the military, the military pensioners, the members of their families in November 2002 was dealt with in the Supreme Council. Appropriate recommendations were adopted, however, which remained unfulfilled in most of the paragraphs. The problems discussed at the time were further exacerbated. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not support our committee's proposal to discuss on one of the Government's Days of Implementation. Just as the decision to hold the State’s Security Day after the destruction of nuclear weapons was not approved today. It's hard to understand this position of the majority and so-called parliamentary-government coalition. In concluding my statement, I call on the National Deputies to adopt a bill tabled by the Government on the basis that, when preparing it for second reading by the Committee, it will be thoroughly worked with the comments of the National Deputies and scientific experts. I'll be honest: it would be a good time to get the bill back for re-reading. But the situation does not allow that. The army waits for the law, and we must accept it. Thank you for your attention. And the last thing I wanted to say is that it says in our papers that I supported the proposal to adopt a law on the basis of a Committee on European Integration is a mistake. The committee, unfortunately, as I was informed, did not consider it, but the committee head, unfortunately, did not acknowledge it as possible even to talk to me about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u37	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Peter Prashenko, please, from the Committee on Budgetary Policy. Dear colleagues, because we are. Now, one minute! If necessary, there will be questions. Then we need to keep going. Since we agreed to set such a time, but then found out that the Budget Committee had yet to report, we agreed that a simple report would be made by the chairman of the committee, and then we would be determined in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u38	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the problem we are currently discussing is extremely pressing. And I would like to thank those national MPs who are involved in the discussion, who have sent their proposals for inclusion in this bill, because so far, a huge number of military personnel have remained in danger of staying out on the street without adequate pension insurance, with an uncertain stake in the housing issue. And the Committee on Budget Affairs, a few days ago, together with the head of the National Security and Defence Committee with the vast representation of the Ministry of Defence, with the participation of a minister, five deputies, - reviewed the issues and made the appropriate decisions. First of all, we've discussed the need to provide housing for military personnel, because you know that since this year, there's been a new order of provision for military personnel when, at the initiative of the Supreme Council, no advances have been made, and the acquisition of housing for military personnel today is financed by living money. The committee recognized this as a positive practice. But at the same time, we've noted that the allocation of funds in the State budget for this article is extremely insufficient. Moreover, to this day I was curious to hear an evaluation of the Supreme Council of the Law of Ukraine on the State Budget, which was without a single coma, without any change being supported by the parliamentary majority in this room. Getting an estimate that this budget is a budget for the degradation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Since it is sacred truth, it is only when we vote for the budget. Moreover, by his decree, the President of Ukraine accepted the need to increase the financing of the Armed Forces to 6 billion. And that's the number we put in the parliamentary resolution when we demanded the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. All of this was not heard by individual national deputies. And today, unfortunately, dear colleagues, we are invited to accept another unfunded populist document. Again, if at the same time today, with the adoption of the Act on Reforming the Armed Forces, there will be no corresponding changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act, where it would be necessary to decide: (a) The issue of pension insurance by increasing the costs of the pension of military personnel; (b) To clearly follow the procedure that will be followed with the property that will be released by the Armed Forces, because in the absence of an honest, transparent procedure there is a great danger that this property will be owned by separate political forces that are now close to politics; Thirdly, we really need to pay particular attention and allocate the necessary funding for the purchase of arms, Georgi Korniyovich rightly stressed this issue, because the reduction in quantity must certainly be compensated for by the improvement in the quality of weapons. Sadly, all of this is not provided for in this bill. So at a joint meeting with Igor Korniyovich, we agreed that this law should be considered by two professional committees: the National Security and Defence Committee to determine the professional direction of the reform of the Armed Forces, and the Committee on Budget Affairs, where we should ensure adequate resources for the norms to be established by the National Deputies when this law is adopted. I am absolutely convinced that this is the only way to adopt a law that will work. And the only way to finally give clear answers to the military personnel who have actually stayed in a broken trough today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Please give the names of the national deputies who are enrolled. Alexander Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine". Prepare Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! Today’s draft law is not timely. We had to discuss it, if he did, in September months in order to take it into account in the 2004 government budget. Yes, colleagues, the name and content of the draft law don't fit, because in fact today we need to, and this needs to be done today, to adopt a bill that sets out the number and provides guaranteed social security measures to reduce the military force. We must recognize today that in such a number that Ukraine’s Armed Forces, Ukraine, are today, unfortunately, will never be able to provide. That takes 25 to 27 billion dollars. Now, why do we have this number today? Yes, because we were determined only in 2002, where our place in the world’s security architecture was based on our own goals. And today, 200,000 is the real number, but the measures are downsizing 80,000 for 2004. It's practically at least two army corps. It's five teams of mechanized, two rocket brigades, one artillery brigade, six artillery regiments. It only takes at least 20 railway echelons to transport one brigade, and every brigade is up to two thousand people, and the military towns, but the mahogany is running, and that's the right thing to do. Today, we must be in a position to support and accept the draft law as a basis, but we must take part in it. First. To change the name of the Act should be "On the Number of Armed Forces on the Guarantee of Social Security Measures." And the second. With this funding, it does not correspond to the scale of the action. With this funding, the military force has to increase and withdraw 200,000 by 2,000 by the end of 2006. In such a case, provision will be made for measures to reduce Ukraine’s Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u41	Yes. Eugene Kirilchuk is a faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. How did Carmazin the third turn out to be?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u42	Eugene Kirilchuk, militia of the Yulia Tymoshenko block, the "Fatherland" party. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Indeed, no one in this room will doubt that it is necessary to reform our Armed Forces, because such an army as we have can not only protect us. It can't feed or exist, or provide, or protect itself. I think that such an army can be conquered by such countries today. Like Luxembourg and Monaco. Because, tell me, if there's no way to charge a plane or tank today even to go to school, what are we talking about today? But that's not even the problem. Trouble is different. Today we are trying to vote in favour of such a law, which is more than likely to have been in this room. We can't rush to make people laugh so that things don't happen the way they did with the State Budget, which we're afraid of even looking at people with holes like this, taking them with holes like this. So, if you're essentially saying, well, we're dealing with a social problem of preparing for the reconstruction of our army? No, no, no, no. We've got a financial program to provide this in order -- first think about the person, first think about the people who get fired, because 70,000. the ones that have been cut short so far have not yet been properly calculated and are not provided by what our government should provide for these people. Now to this 70,000. I'll add at least 100 grand. homeless people, without insurance, without funding, and without a living minimum. We're going to create and expose this kind of population fire and these people to the Supreme Council that we're going to be very close here. I therefore believe that this law needs to be re-readed, developed in the direction of arms, social issues, towns, finance and even a military-industrial complex that we do not mention today. He's ready, isn't he ready to provide our army with new weapons today? That's why I think again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u43	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Stepan Bulba will perform after Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National MPs, February 23rd, Motherland Protector's Day. Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich, thank you, Mr. Yanukovich, thank you, Mr. President, and to all of you that you have greeted the defenders of the Motherland, now they will not normally sleep after what you offer! Does the law’s name fit its purpose or not? The title of the law does not even match the substance of the law that you write. You're only writing about the abbreviations. Is it about reform? Why don't you listen to George Manchulenka on a committee that was firm on knowing the case, and he's been on this committee for a long time, so what can't be done? Who is serving in the army today? These are the children of ordinary workers, peasants, servants. You are pleased that they have already voted in favour of the JEDU, and they were forced to vote in favour of the JEDU. Now let's go back to the numbers. Today is a valid law on the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2000-2005, and no one is making any changes there. There was a five - year reduction of 25,000 at the same time as the Commander - in - Command, including 15,000 military personnel, and by December 30, 2005, the number of the Armed Forces was projected to reach 375,000, including 295 military personnel. What are you suggesting? And you're only proposing in 2004 to reduce the number by one hundred thousand, including 80,000 military personnel. And at the same time, you don't give instructions to the government until six months after the law becomes effective to develop real social protection. So you throw people away and you don't even hide from it. I'd like all the military personnel to understand clearly: Victor Yushchenk's constituency "Our Ukraine" will not allow you to be offended! We won't let this bill be adopted. It won't work. That's what I'm telling you the day before Motherland's Day. I urge you to stop worrying about how the General of the Security Service, Valerius Kravchenko, who has declared where the funds you do not find today are going, said that in spite of the law on Ukrainian intelligence, the development of opposition forces abroad, the sleaze behind the ministers, was financed by everyone else. That's what the General Security Service says! And you're cutting them in half. They're military personnel, too. 70,000 today, I met representatives of the Odessa Southern Command on Monday of that week. What are you doing? You're doing it alive. You're cutting people down. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u45	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Thank you. The next one will be Matthew instead of Luke’s Lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u46	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners, those who are currently serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine! The day before Motherland’s Day, the Ministry of Defense prepared a gift to remember for life. This is about an attempt by the bill to legitimize the liquidation of our army, an extermination that is called the reform of the army. It began when Ukraine was forced to disarm, to eliminate nuclear weapons. Next, the real - life aircraft’s air defenses were developed. As a result of these so-called reforms, we don't fly anymore, we don't launch missiles on land or zenith. That's terrible! As a result, tens of thousands of former military personnel became unemployed and homeless. They asked the Secretary of Defense why do you think Ukraine should have an army of 160,000 military? There is no answer. But the bill states: "The aim of reform is to create a mobile, uncomplicated state of the modern army, capable, etc. etc. Do you hear it's "powerless" but "powerful"? Where did our ministers see such an army? Let's say that Poland has 38 million people, has an army of 180,000, but it spends 5 times as much on this army as we do. Poland spends 8.5 times more on the defence budget than Ukraine, Turkey -- 13.5 times more, Russia -- 4.6 times. Where did you see the cheap army? The army can be destroyed cheaply, but it will cost the country too much. The cost is not enough, so you might want to see where they can be saved. Why, say, do we have internal affairs, three-four times as many militias as the military? I'm the head of the Social Protection Committee, members of their families and military pensioners, and I urge all of you not to vote in favour of this bill. That is why we will help those people while they are citizens of Ukraine, are normal people, are not thrown out into the street, are so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u47	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u48	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Uliy Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. Is there a pressing problem that we are dealing with today? Yes, of course. Is it worth discussing today? Yesterday. Is there a ministry today that for the first time may have spoken seriously about the problem so harshly, so supportive? Yes, of course. But in the name of what? Obviously in the name of security. What, though, do we see in all that is offered to us today? In the name of one idea, it is a shortcut. The other thing I got with you today is we can't figure it out. The impression is that we're going to try to make some sort of campaign again, because there's some minimum, and if there's less, it's going to be more for those who stay there. Why is this happening? And I'd like to talk to my colleagues. Honorable National Deputies, realize the role you are offered today! Let's think about history. The President of Ukraine has repeatedly stressed that the Armed Forces are his father and the Supreme Council are not allowed there to be a gunfire. And he showed it by his decrees, starting to talk about reform since 2002. Then I repeated it over and over again. After that, he allowed us to assume the only obligation — to pass the law on reduction. [[I'll take that in quotes.]] It's been a long time since there's been a riot in the Armed Forces. And that is the responsibility of today’s guarantor and Chief of Staff. He's no longer in charge of the processes, the processes are no longer in control. We need to translate from our head today into the Supreme Council, we should propose the adoption of the so-called Reform Act, and then we should say: "Here's where the culprits of all the problems that have arisen with the Armed Forces today." I don’t mind having the Supreme Council make these commitments. What's more, we're here today to support the Secretary of Defense, but not in this way. I'm talking to Mr. Marchuk: why are we in a hurry, where are we going? I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council: Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, where it is issued to make such a serious problem: today they have passed a bill and today we have to vote on it. Where it's published, we don't really have much budget lessons, we don't really have much reform lessons. I think we have to take this very seriously, because everything that we're offered seems to me, except to get us down, and also to let us steal what we can steal today, because someone needs to take us to the right presidential elections because of all the fakes. We suggest today that we reposition the first reading, have a serious hearing, and vote it as a serious document of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u49	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues, the time spent discussing the matter is over, we will be determined. I'm proposing to the committee, to adopt a bill by number in the first reading, registration number 5101, bill on reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:11:16]] For 235 The bill was adopted in the first reading. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 2, "Regions of Ukraine" - 62, Communists - 4, Party of Industrialists and Labour - 41, Social Democrats - 38, "The People's Government" - 21, Socceries - 1, Block of Timoshenko - 2, Deminiciates - 19, Agrarian Party - 15, National Choice - 13, NDP - 12, non-fractional - 5. For reasons of what? The project was adopted in the first reading. Please, Marchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, since such information has been given today about people being thrown out into the streets, you are carefully heard by all military personnel. I'd like to give you some additional explanations that fit the point in numbers. First. Today, Ukraine’s Armed Forces make up 355,000. Next. Germany's armed forces are 308,000, Italy is 230, Britain is 211, France is 273, and I'm not comparing it to economics anymore. The other one. Will they be thrown into the street? Dear soldiers who listen to me! Dear National Deputies! No one will ever go to the liberation of any military officer if all legal guarantees are not paid. It's not going to work out this year, there's going to be 56,000 military personnel in the state and 35 on the list, there's not going to be an 80, there's not going to be a bailout for that amount, there's not going to be anybody on the street. The other one. Should We Hurry? We're too late. I've already given you the numbers. First. Today, 80 percent of us spend too much money on maintenance. Three or four years from now, we're running out of missile-arthillery systems, anti-aircraft systems, and we don't want to go into any of the other systems, I don't want to go into detail. Next. Today I was giving you examples. Money retention is 30 percent less than other power structures, and civil servants, 90,000, receive at the poverty rate. This resource can only be taken into account by optimizing the budget structure. It was said that complex weapons should be considered and so forth. The State Arms Development Programme was developed, and it was approved by 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u51	Eugene Kirilovich, thank you. We have a lot of questions. Thank you. The Law was adopted in the first reading. The motive is over, the law is passed, the motive is gone. We don't accept it in the second reading. Dear colleagues! We're moving on to the next one. The first reading of the bill was adopted. We need to consider getting into the agenda. There are proposals to support the proposal to support the proposal by the Professional Committee that we include in the agenda the issue of securing Ukraine's internal market with mineral fertilizers for the period of spring-field work in 2004. Please vote. We're voting friendlyly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u52	Here comes the vote. [[17:15:23]] For-143 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. One minute, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 9, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 1, the Communist faction - 55, Industrialists and entrepreneurs "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, SDPU (o) - 15, "The People's Government" - 16, SPU - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, Agrarian Party - 16, "The People's Choice" - 13, NDP - 4, outside the faction - 3. What? Motive suffrage, please. Now we're going to go to a section with a reduced procedure for reviewing drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u53	Thank you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, for this morning's session, Bill 2188 on the amendment of the Political Parties Act was discussed. There is a request and a proposal, put to the vote to review this bill in a second reading today, and if this decision is taken, vote it again in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, given that the bill is drafted by Alexander Alexander Moroz, I will put it to a vote in this way: who is to go back to the draft? Registration number 1288. Go back to the study. There's a vote coming. [[17:17:18]] For 326 Dear National Deputies, since all comments and suggestions were taken into account during the second reading, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law, registration number 1288, second reading, and generally as a law. Please vote. [[17:17:49]] For 321 Decision taken. This is not a violation of the Rules because I put it to the vote. There were objections to be accepted in general. Well, Alexander Ivanovich! Ivan Aleksandrovich, stop working. Let's move on to the section entitled "Review of Bills by Short Procedure." A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004 is being submitted for consideration. [[on inter-budget transfers and financing]] Porcelain Peter Alexiovich, please. Who will report from the committee? Assadchev Valérie, please. May I have your attention, please? Valery Assadchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The language in this bill is about the error that was made in the draft budget, and it was discovered by the committee. It refers to inter-budget transfers and, in particular, the transfer of Winnica, where there was a six million-thousand error. I just keep saying that because there are no numbers at hand. It was discovered and published by the Ministry of Finance. But as you recall, when we received the budget, the Supreme Council made no change. We remember this procedure. So we're just asking you to vote and correct this mistake right now. It needs to be voted immediately in the first reading and in general, because there is just a change in the number and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u56	Bronjik, please. Turn on the Microphone for the Bronnikov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u57	We would like to hear a confirmation of this issue from the Ministry of Finance. It's either a mistake or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u58	Please, it's the government's bed. A representative of the government. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! As of today, 45 drafts have been registered in the Supreme Council. The government's proposals are summarized as follows. We suggested that all of these issues be considered in the complex, agreed with the Committee on Budget Affairs, and then voted in the Hall by a single law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u59	My dear colleagues, unfortunately too, do not have the situation involved. I'd like to ask you, when you come in, to prepare. The government acknowledged in the person of the First Deputy Prime Minister's Minister of Finance that there was an error in the budget vote and that it needed to be corrected. And if you do not have the question, please do not mislead your deputies. And there's no politics here, there's just an offer to correct that mistake. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on Adoption as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2004 State Budget for Ukraine on Inter-Budget Transfers and Financing. Registration number 4459. Please vote. [[17:21:28]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Please, Victor Pinzenik. Dear colleagues, out of our political passions, because of our political passions, will suffer the city, people will suffer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize exactly what Vladimir Mikhailovich said. Please tell me, what is the fault of the inhabitants of Winnitz, that the budget makes a technical mistake? The hostages of this situation are the doctors, the teachers of the town of Winnitz. And let's not politicize that question. Because you have to fix the error you made when voting for the budget. People are left with no financial security.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u61	I, my dear fellows, will now put to the vote in another plane. Since I put it on the ground at once and in general, I will put to the vote the basis for the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 (U.S.). Registration number 4459. Please vote. [[17:22:42]] For 165 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions. There is no decision. By procedure, now, one minute. For: "Our Ukraine" faction 93, "Regions of Ukraine" - 6, Communist faction - 0, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Party "Urban Ukraine" - 0, SDPU(o) -2, "The People's Government" - 2, SPI - 18, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 17, Deminitiv - 0, Agricultural Party - 6, "National Choice" - 1, NDP - 10, non-fractional - 10. Matvienka, from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u62	Anatoly Matvienko. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you on behalf of all the vice-deputies of Winnitzka. I'm just begging you, there's no politics here. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I beg you too, come on, say your word again. Today, Winnitz’s budget cannot meet the basic requirements. Dear colleagues, I am addressing a faction of Communists, I understand that there are political differences. But not all the inhabitants of the 300th-thousand town of Winnitz are to blame today. Well, let's make this right. I'm just calling you again from all the vice-deputies of Winnitzka and from all the inhabitants of Winnitzki. I think it's just some kind of inadequacy. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please put the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u63	Valery Konovaluk, please, that's all. The Committee on Budgets is still pending.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you and to the Ministry of Finance: unfortunately, we have not only a mistake on Winnitz, but many other mistakes in the budget that we have approved. And the 45 bills of the People's Deputies on the change to the State Budget in February -- that's something that says. I want the Ministry of Finance to urgently prepare a draft law on changes to the State Budget, or we have a separate meeting to address these issues, because there are plenty of these issues, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And we need to react in a comprehensive way and introduce a single draft law on change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable heads of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to ask you instead of making a statement to sit down and consider this issue and make one project. You're all just making a good point. Orzhachowski, that's all. Why are you begging me? I already did. That's it! Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. I understand colleagues who would like to correct a mistake in the Vinnitsky area today, but I also want to refer to a colleague of the national MP, Mr. Anatoly Sergiyovich, who says that there is no policy on this bill. I'd like to ask in his faction, is there a policy when they didn't vote on the bill on recognition of the Hersonian area in the agro-industrial complex that suffered in 2003? Let's respect each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u67	My dear colleagues, in order to take down the sieve, I am voting on who to go back to the consideration of Bill No. 4459 is about amending the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's 2004 State Budget". [[on inter-budget transfers and financing]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:26:36]] For 165 The decision is not taken. All of it. The factions, please. Well, there's no motive anymore! I voted three times! Powder, please. Motives. Well, all right, dear fellows, the decision is no longer made. All of it. By factions, I'll read it. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 1, the Communist faction - 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and "Trug Ukraine" - 0, SDPU (o) - 2, "The People's Government" - 4, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Deminicatives" - 0, Agrarian Party - 2, "The People's Choice" - 0, NDP - 9, "Afterfractional" - 11. All of it. As the author of the bill, with the motivations of Prashenko. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u68	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have just witnessed the abuse of over 400,000 inhabitants of Winnitz. Because of a technical error made by the Ministry of Finance and the government in the preparation of the budget, when the income of the second basket was taken into account, that is, the own income of the town of Winnici was miscalculated into the revenue of the State Budget in 2000, more than six million were paid from the State Budget. As a result, the city council cannot accept an objective budget. This is the salary of the doctors, the teachers, your voters, who voted for your parties, and who you have betrayed by this vote today, just because the author of this bill is Peter Poroshenko, who introduced this bill, completely technical. And to this day, I regret that the inhabitants of Winnitz, the national deputies who had been removed from the city, did not find the courage to vote for the bill today. I am absolutely convinced that this is a powerful testimony to the crisis that has taken place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u69	Thank you. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families is being announced for consideration. [[on the subsistence minimum for children in a multi-child family]] Lila Grigorovich, National Deputy, please. The author of David’s bill, Ludmila Ivanovna, will act as coreporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u70	Victor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, the need to amend the law on State Social Assistance for Families with Children, is dictated by life itself and today itself. These changes make me make, those changes in our lives or these realities, changes in this bill and unlock what we call stability. I want to inform you that this bill was tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council on May 29, 2003. After that, I was repeatedly reminded during various plenary sessions that there was such a bill and that it was intended to raise the minimum of living for underprivileged, multi-child children by 20 percent. What is the purpose of this bill? And it actually executes the decisions of our parliamentary hearings about the demographic crisis, where not by politicians, but by sociologists and demographicists. If the status quo remains constant with our lowest average wage in Europe, the lowest minimum pension, the lowest subsistence minimum, which we have not voted for, for these reasons, unchanged, we have a demographic forecast in Ukraine in 10 years, 43-44 million inhabitants in Ukraine, and labour emigration is not going to be 7, but 10-12 million Ukrainians. That's why I'm stressing for the honorable majority and for the government that are right and saying that everything is already decided by the Budget Act, I'm making changes not to the 2004 Budget Act, which is voted annually, but I'm amending a document that's more long-term, more appropriate in the eyes of our citizens, which is called the Law on State Assistance for Families with Children. In view of this, we propose to increase the cost of living to these families by 20 percent. Dear friends, I would like to point out that this is about 137,400 families, for having a large family in Ukraine today is certainly a feat that requires a great deal of civil courage. In view of the fact that today the Budget Act actually does, and we know that this budget voted very quickly brings out a lot of inadequacies and drugs, and with diapers, changes have been made that the subsistence minimum for low-income children is 110 dollars, increase by 20 percent to 132. But I'm convinced and I'm asking you to put it to a vote and I want to see who doesn't vote for it, and I'm asking you to print it in the Voice of Ukraine, if we count these costs for low-income, multi-child families today, and as a result of the first and second reading, these children can still get two, five, ten bracelets this year. Dear friends! It's very important. This is not a squall or a source of social or political passion, it is simply the fulfilment of our constitutional duty as a Ukrainian national deputy. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading, I ask you to support the entire parliament, because everyone has children, voters, and everyone in the district has many families.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, Lilia Stepanovna. People's John David, please. Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to sit down, and we're still working.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill. The adoption of this law will help to improve the social protection system of single - parent families with three or more children. The committee's decision is to take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! Who denies such a position? Do we need to discuss it? Maybe let's take it as a base, and let the committee work. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of Bill 3565 amending the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families on living minimum for children in a multi-child family. [[Registration number 3565]] Please vote. [[17:33:56]] For 299 Decision taken. Announcing the project. What? The draft law is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, well, please, have a seat. I'll deal with the hall now. Well, let's keep working. Dear colleagues, I'm required. Well, I'll, uh, I'll go to most. Well, I'll talk to everyone, just sit down. Well, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we had a normal rhythm. He's breaking up now. I'm being approached again by MPs, and you just saw, and they're calling for a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's Supreme Council Decision on Information to the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information on the situation that has arisen around the edition of the newspaper "The Village News." As we proceed to continue our normal work, I ask you to listen carefully. I'll put it to a vote. Who is responsible for returning to the consideration of this matter? Please vote. And then not to be blocked. Please vote. For - 209 The decision is not taken. I ask the initiators of this decision to work with the factions and find an agreed position. The factions? Please. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families is being announced for consideration. [[on land standards for assistance]] Lilia Grigorovich is the author of the project and Ludmila Davidov will be the co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u74	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the May 20th amendment was made last year. I think my fellow majors will understand me, because after this bill was introduced into the session hall, we voted at-hoc in the first and second readings. I say this so that we don't get too proud that every year we're more and more enacting laws. At times, such hasty acceptance results in things that have actually taken place as a result of such a vote. In the Marjorie MPs, our committee's tables were practically filled with letters from low-income families from our citizens, and they were virtually rid of additional state aid. Dear friends, I call just one digit, one change is two hectares. In the bill. The one we voted so hastyly was 0.6. I want to point out that this bill has a proportionality between an extra apartment, a large purchase that exceeds the ten times the cost of living, and so on. And all of this is going to be congruent to the area of 0.6 hectares. I know that in Poland there are two hectares. I know that the Ministry of Agriculture, the Earth Committee can deny and say that it's a little bit too high. But, dear fellows, we can't take a low-income family today because it has a land area of 0.6 hectares. So today, two hectares are presented for the transcription of the bill, and I call it the possibility of compromise before the first reading of 1.5 hectares. But, dear friends, we have to vote this out, because if we build our budget on low-income farmers who live outside poverty and have a land plot of one and a half acres, then eventually we seem to be building a road, not into the future, but into the past. In view of this, I ask you to support, repeat for the stenographer, call it 1.5 hectares, and normally scrupulously with the government to work on the second reading of this figure. I very much want our low - income families not to be alarmed at the fact that we are putting them on a virtually low profile. And I'm asking you to support my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u75	Thank you. Please, Ludmila Ivanovna. The woman is always ahead of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered this bill, supporting a legislative initiative aimed at creating legal principles to improve support for low-income families living in rural areas. And this change from two hectares to one and a half acres, we support and ask for this bill to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u77	Vladimir Leschchenko, with motives. And now we're going to be determined by voting if there's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u78	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I have to tell you that in most, in many rural farms, it's just two hectares. So one and a half acres won't solve anything. I propose to vote in the paper on the one proposed by the project's authors and to support the grieving, unhappy, 100-timely deluded peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, no other warnings? I'm voting on the adoption of the bill, registration number 3527, on the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to low-income families on land rules for assistance. [[17:40:37]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. A draft decree on the withdrawal of certain bills is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4101. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko - Head of the Legal Policy Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u80	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee is considering a draft motion for a motion for a withdrawal of a number of draft draft bills that have been considered, and the committee has lost its relevance during the third session and today, due to changes in the current legislation, including Project 1106 on Criminology, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, Project 1154 on Opposition to Political Extremism, Project 1228 on Amendments to the Article of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement, Projects 2214, 2214-1 on Parliamentary majority and Parliamentary Opposition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 3050 on Social and Legal Guarantees of the President of Ukraine, which ceased to execute powers, and 3,438 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Family Code on the Adoption of Children. But this bill was called off by the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, it may not be voted on. The committee decided unanimously that these bills were to be rejected. The same decision was made by the Science and Technology Authority. There are appropriate conclusions. I think we can vote either separately or maybe on a list, because I don't think there's any such deep questions or contradictions here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u81	What warnings may there be? No warning? Can we vote or not? What do you think? Is there no warning? I'm betting on the vote on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw some of the bills, registration number 4105 as a whole. Please vote. [[17:43:33]] For 331 From the Lechchenko procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u82	Vladimir Leschchenko, Communist Party faction, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to put to the vote my proposal to vote a draft of Law 3527 concerning State social assistance to low-income families on land standards to provide assistance. It seems to me that the Agrarian Party did not understand this question, but only five votes were needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u83	I see. I'm betting on the vote, who's to go back to the Bill 3527, reported by Lilia Grigorovich? Please determine by vote. [[17:44:47]] For 215 Unfortunately, no decision is made. A draft decision on the withdrawal of certain legislative acts, amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the preparation for the second reading of the draft Criminal Procedure Code, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u84	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. The Committee on Legal Policy, at its meeting on 24 December, considered a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of some draft amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code in preparation for the second reading of the draft Criminal Procedure Code. The project is proposed to withdraw five drafts for first reading, but not for the agenda of the fourth session of the Supreme Council, and four drafts for committee work. The result is nine projects. According to their legal content, some projects have lost their relevance, some have found their application in the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure project, and the rest should be made in the form of proposals to be included in the relevant articles of the Code when preparing it for second reading. We propose to adopt a decision, which will be called: "To withdraw some of the bills amending the Criminal Procedure Code in connection with the preparation for the second reading of the draft Criminal Procedure Code." And to recommend to the drafters that are working, to review the bills they have initiated to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code and to formulate them as proposals for inclusion in the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. To entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement with taking into account the provisions of draft laws submitted by the legislators when preparing the draft code for second reading. The report is complete. By doing so, we will reduce the volume by nine projects. You have them, the entire list of these projects is listed. I won't stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u85	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Boris Bespali. Next up, Nikolainka. If that's the case, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear reporter and reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have a real question from the procedure. Not yet accepted in the new edition of the Criminal Procedure Code. He's just getting ready. When and where it's accepted, we don't know. And in general, logic is normal. But don't you think there's a bit of a shift in the sequence? Wouldn't it be better to adopt the Criminal Procedure Code first, and then look at which of these laws, or maybe even more of them, not to take pictures? I mean, well, there's a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u87	Dear Boris Yakovich. We took a closer look. In the first reading, the concept of the project is accepted. Most of these positions are included in the first reading. And now it's inappropriate to take up time with people, the more that the law won't, because right now on the exit of the committee of Moses, there's a legislatively secured project. That's why I think you're worried.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u88	Stanislaw Nikolainka, is that your question? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u89	I must inform you, Your Honor, that in protest against the opposition of the majority, the faction of the Socialists in relation to the absence of a question in rural areas has not been voted. We're leaving the hall, we're giving up our jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u90	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u91	I understand the position of socialists, but I'm very sorry that on this very bill I urge Stanislav Mikolaiovich to vote in favour of this project and then to make a sign of protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u92	Eugene Kirilchuk, do you have this project? Please, Kirilchuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u93	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. I have this problem with the reporter. We know that the CDC is going out somewhere in March months, so it's going to go to work quickly. KPC is not yet known when it is introduced. We're eliminating 9 bills and we're creating a lot of blank holes, we don't know when we're going to accept that KPC. So maybe we're in a hurry?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u94	Dear Eugene Ivanovich, I want to tell you that these projects are not in the order of the day of the Fourth Session. And they're not in vain, that's the first. Second, with regard to the preparation of the CPC. I assure you, as far as I know, a month or two and he'll be ready, let's say, a more democratic state and then he'll be accepted. And taking the projects off the table, it won't affect the holes, everything you need, it's already regulated by the laws in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the drafts of the criminal, civil and procedural codes will be introduced in early March. We've already agreed, they'll be ready for consideration. And these bills that the committee proposes to withdraw are not included in the agenda of this session, so we just need to formally remove them. I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of some bills amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code in connection with the preparation for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code for adoption as a whole. [[Registration number 4583]] Please vote. [[17:51:08]] For 347 Decision taken. I'm announcing a 15-minute extension to 18.15. A draft Order on the withdrawal of certain bills amending the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code is being announced for consideration. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I must say, my fellow Members, you have already heard from the very name that some legislative acts and codes are being amended, particularly the Civil Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, although the new Civil and Family Code has been in operation since 1 January. So you're asked to have a decision by the committee and a draft Supreme Council Decision on the removal or removal of such bills as: to amend article 49 of the Ukrainian Civil Code by the Ukrainian People's Deputy. [[Draft No. 3065]] An interesting bill, but its ideas are included in the new Civil Code; a draft amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the responsibility of employers for failing to perform insurance duties, the Ukrainian National MP. [[No. 3126]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u97	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm sorry. There are documents, maybe some of the deputies will have warnings, then we'll explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u98	Please, I agree. There are nine bills and some changes to the CDC. These proposals are taken into account by the committee in the drafting of the Civil Procedure Code, which we plan to issue on 4 March in the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u99	I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal from the Supreme Council of Ukraine of some of the bills amending the Civil Code of the Ukrainian RSR and the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine for adoption as a whole, registration number 4616. Please vote. [[17:53:20]] For 334 Decision taken. A draft regulation on the removal of drafts of certain Ukrainian legislative acts relating to social policy and labour is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy and Labour is Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhi. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, the committee's ruling suggests that 21 bills should be withdrawn from the Committee's consideration, which were previously decided by the committee to reject a number of drafts that have been called off by the National Deputies themselves. A number of bills solve the problem that has been solved in other bills and are now considered settled. I would like to remind you that this process began on July 12, 2002. Therefore, to ensure that our daily routine is not disrupted when the necessary bill, which is of higher relevance, is proposed to be withdrawn from the consideration of Bills 1135, 1350, 1359, 1369, 2011, 2071, 2249, 2270, 2496, 2501, 2642, 3036, 3130, 3233, 3246, 3275, 3307, 3332, 3465, 3525, 4013, 4113, 4278. The committee requests support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u101	Yes, Victor Pinzenik, then Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u102	Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I insist that two draft laws be removed from this list: 3036 and 3037. I've heard the thesis about the loss of relevance of some projects. I would like to point out that these two projects provide for the introduction of rules that require reporting and reporting on the implementation of the budget of the Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and other insurance funds. Do my colleagues think it's normal that we don't even know what's going on with the multibillion dollars that the money comes in? And where are they headed? So I insist that these laws be removed from the draft decree and voted without 3036, 3037, because these issues are relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u103	I answer to the honourable Victor Mikhailovich that the proposed change is contrary to article 63 of the State Budget Act, which stipulates that social insurance funds are being used by the State Treasury. I repeat, this is a self-governing organization, the Social Insurance Fund. And you can't put that in the budget, because it's going to be what we had when we were in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u104	We'll remove it if you insist. We'll delete and put it to a vote. Please, Andrew School, then Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just, you know, how do you delete bills, I want to ask the reporter questions, I don't remember them all, but I'm giving you a hundred percent that all these bills came from the national MPs. None of the government's, no president's. Wait a minute, I'm done. I'll finish, then you'll answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u106	Give me a specific number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u107	I mean, it's like people's deputies aren't qualified, they can't draft quality bills, and the government and the flawlessly intelligent President of Kuchma gives such powerful, such wonderful bills that they're being considered here, they don't vote and they don't talk. So in principle, I would like to say this, you don't have to, you could count the numbers, you could say that all of these bills came from the national MPs, and why they were rejected. And this, I say again, turns into such a bad practice. Because inadequate laws come primarily from Kabmin and from the President of Ukraine here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u108	I would like to say, my fellow Members, that 75 percent of the bills that are being tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council are bills of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Sometimes they duplicate each other, sometimes they run counter to what we have accepted. That's why there's a committee proposal. If you insist on a specific piece of the bill, we'll delete it, and he'll be waiting for his turn to be considered. Let's have a conversation right here in this practical plane. Please, Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u109	Dear reporter, we wrote you a letter. I didn't follow all your names. We can't take a picture of our faction bill at number 4131. It is about amending some Ukrainian legislation regarding the congregation for compulsory social insurance, double taxation of the village. As the social insurance congregation includes the standard and the percentage of the fixed tax adopted by the new law. Remove it from consideration. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u110	Whoever insists is the author of the bill, just say the number, we delete it, as it goes by the judges. Please, Poljczuk Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u111	Mikola Polishchuk, "Our Ukraine", Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We asked for expenses from the fund from an accident.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u112	So please give me a specific bill, call it a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u113	I would like to see this norm that Pinzenik spoke to be excluded. Why? Because the cost of treatment was one million eight hundred thousand, and the cost of maintaining the fund was 83 million in the past year. This rule of 3036 and 3037 should therefore be excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u114	They've already ruled it out, they've already said it. I beg you to listen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting for the removal of three bills - registration numbers - 3036, 3037 and 4137 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to withdraw drafts of certain legislative acts of Ukraine relating to social policy and labour, for adoption as a whole, with the deletion of three draft laws - registration number - 4371, please vote. [[18:00:15]] For 283 Decision taken. A draft decree on the rejection of bills that have lost the relevance and return of drafts is being tabled. Klimpush Orest Dmitrovich, please head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Housing, Transport, Housing and Communications. Registration number 5119.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications has reviewed a number of drafts and is asking you to support our proposal for rejection and withdrawal, as well as some back-up. It's about a bill amending the Ukrainian concession law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u116	Orest Dmitrovitch, we all have education, all literate, they can read documents before us, they don't have to read. Who insists on removing the bill? You don't? I am voting on the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the rejection of laws that have become obsolete and on the return of draft bills. Registration number 5119. Please vote. [[18:01:42]] For 323 Decision taken. A draft decision on the withdrawal of draft laws from Ukraine that conflict with the requirements of current legislation or that are regulated by other laws and have become obsolete is being considered. From the committee, please, very briefly, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship discussed at its meeting a draft decision by the Supreme Council on the withdrawal of draft laws of Ukraine that conflict with the requirements of current legislation or that have been regulated by other laws and have lost their relevance. I support and propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be reviewed and accepted as a whole. The proposed draft regulation is prepared in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is proposed to make general draft decisions on the withdrawal from the Supreme Council of Ukraine of bills that have become obsolete or are proposed to be rejected on other grounds. It's such a project, a registration number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u117	You don't have to. Who among the national MPs has a warning about individual bills? You don't? I am voting on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a whole on the withdrawal of drafts of certain legislative acts of Ukraine that conflict with the requirements of existing legislation or that are governed by other laws and have lost their relevance. Registration number 5091. Please vote. [[18:03:32]] For 339 Decision taken. A draft decision on the withdrawal of certain Ukrainian legislative acts relating to the agri-industrial complex is being considered. Oleg Yukhnovsky, secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations is introducing a draft decree to the Supreme Council on the withdrawal of certain draft legislation relating to the agro-industry complex. These are draft laws: 1355, 3010, 3576.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u119	We don't need to read. If anyone has a objection, say so. You don't? Is it? Wait a minute! Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich. What kind of bill, tell me, we'll delete it. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u120	Kirilchuk proposes to remove question 3010. This is true of religious organizations. Honorable MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, most of these communities build, rebuild, rebuild, at the expense of people who do not have those funds, temples. I think they need to be removed from them so they can pay taxes for that land. They don't even have a penny to collect. Take 3010.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the removal of draft registration number 3010: the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal of drafts of certain Ukrainian legislation relating to the agro-industry complex -- for adoption as a whole. Registration number 5006. Please vote. [[18:05:33]] For 343 Decision taken. A draft regulation on the removal of certain legislative acts of Ukraine relating to freedom of speech and the activities of the media is being announced for consideration. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, there are three documents. A parliamentary decree regarding the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for a particular publication in 2002 has become obsolete, and there are other schemes for dealing with the issue and two government bills relating to the procedure for sending mandatory copies. This problem has already been solved by another law, the printed media and the draft law amending "State support for the media", which the committee does not insist on, and our committee does not insist on, because it provides for an extension of the benefits to the print media involved in law education. Since no one will properly determine what a legal activity is, of course, there is no point in extending the benefits to this category. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u123	Is there a warning or not? I am voting on a motion for a motion for a removal from the draft legislation on certain Ukrainian legislation relating to freedom of speech and the activities of the media. Registration No. 4363, for admission as a whole. Please vote. [[18:07:11]] For 350. Decision taken. The draft decree rejecting the draft laws of Ukraine and the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered. Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, the first deputy head of the committee on the fight against crime and corruption. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u124	Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, at its meeting on 12 March, discussed: the draft Ukrainian law on the declaration of property by natural persons, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of the form of a declaration of income and property of a natural person No. 2466, the draft law of Ukraine on the declaration of income and property of natural persons. [[Registration number 2465]] [[Registration number 2465-1]] And at the May 21st meeting, the issue was the draft Ukrainian Law on Legalization of Property Incomes, which did not pay taxes. [[Registration number 3228]] Dear National Deputies! In view of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act on 1 January 2004, the consideration of draft laws is not currently appropriate. Practically all the proposals in these bills, taken into account by exceptions to the Ukrainian Law on the Legalization of Property Income, have been approached today by the author Bondarczuk, and he denies that he would be able to withdraw from the proceedings. [[3228]] Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u125	Okay. I'm a gmirja. Then Pinzenic. Let's talk about what number we're removing right now. Gmira, the microphone. You'd better get up to the rostrum and tell me it'll be quicker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, I think we are introducing a completely new precedent when we vote on the issue of rejection. Well, the rejections are always positive, they haven't voted, they've voted, they've voted, they've voted against. We may vote to withdraw, but in no case can we vote against the bill. This is a novelty that I don't think we need to just simplify all these procedural issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u127	Yes. Victor Pinzenic. Victor Pinzenic, please. Microphone to Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, please remove project 3228 from the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u129	So we've already removed it. So I'm voting on the 3228 draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal of draft laws of Ukraine and the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 4408. Please vote. There we changed the names, not the deviation, the removal from the view, as was the amendment made by the people's deputy. [[18:10:48]] For 311 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the withdrawal of draft Ukrainian laws amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection is being introduced. Registration number 4427. Anastasiav, please. Ah, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, the committee is bringing to your attention the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of a number of draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection as such, which requires substantial work and significant costs of the State Budget. In particular, Jaroslav Jódzik's law, registration number 2407, Sergei Matvienkova - 2407-1, Julius Timoshenko, registration number 3699, proposes to grant the status of a war participant to persons born from December 31st, 32nd to December 31st, 44th, automatically, only on the date of birth. This means greatly expanding the range of potential recipients of benefits and devalue of the status of the participant, a war veteran. The other two bills of Komara 3402 and Volkov 3617 suggest that minors be assigned to crafts schools to participate in hostilities and that the status of war invalids be extended to members of the free-standing militias of paramilitary fire protection who participated in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl accident. They have the right status, and the committee is asking for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u131	Who insists on expelling some kind of bill? None. I am voting on a draft order to withdraw draft Ukrainian laws amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and to guarantee their social protection. Registration number 4427. Please vote. [[18:13:02]] For 261 Decision taken. A draft decree on the withdrawal of draft Ukrainian laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Basil Nadrag, please. We have two more questions here besides, please be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, you are invited to draft the Committee's ruling, which, in its decision, has pushed two things away. The present case refers to additions and amendments to the Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. Two things were the motive for the draft regulation that you are proposing. First. The special merit pension should not, however, be devaluation until 80 per cent of pensioners receive it. Second moment. So far, there are no budgetary capacity of some 6.5 billion, which will require the application of these laws. On that basis, the Committee invites you to withdraw these bills from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u133	What bills? Tell me the registration number, I'll delete it. Petrov, please. Registration number 3675, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, I propose not to vote for the committee's proposal. For the deputies of the village and village councils of five appeals are the proposal to establish the normal allowances that people deserve. Because they're people on public policy, 25 years of age. We set up all the allowances, and the area, and so on. And what the Ministry says is that they need a lot of money, they count it in four months. Here's the deputy minister's note: "$15 million. You have to." I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u135	Thank you. I'm voting on a draft ruling that the committee has made. Registration number 4448, and you are required to vote. There's a vote coming, I can't, there's a vote coming. [[18:15:21]] For 177 The decision is not supported. A draft regulation on the withdrawal of draft Ukrainian laws amending Ukraine's pension insurance laws is being announced for consideration. Please. Leukyanko, we did not support this law. They're staying. Please Microphone Leukka Lukyanenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to bring you, Mr. Head, and all the deputies to a very important subject. The Supreme Council has dealt with the issue of special merit pensions many times. But there is a category such as political prisoners and reprisals. The law was passed in the Soviet Ukraine on April 18, 1991. Since then, several commissions have drafted a bill, and to this day it has not been possible to approve it. I'm asking you very much to put it into the agenda, because it's not even included in this list that we now have. This is manifest injustice. The Supreme Council celebrates and appoints pensions to those who have strengthened the Communist dictatorship and who do not want to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u137	Thank you. This is about disfellowshipping, not getting into the agenda. Leukko Grigorovitch, when he does, we'll turn it on. A draft regulation on the withdrawal of draft Ukrainian laws on the amendment of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act is being announced. You've got a draft decision. Who has a warning about some kind of bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u138	Colleagues, one thought. We passed the Pension Insurance Act last July. These proposals relate to the old law, and there is no subject for work. Therefore, please withdraw from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u139	I'm voting on a draft regulation on the withdrawal of draft Ukrainian laws on the amendment of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, registration number 5097, for adoption as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u140	It's no longer an existing law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m1.u141	Please vote. [[18:17:50]] For 214 The decision is not taken. And lastly, dear fellows, listen to what this is about. During the break, a meeting of the Conciliation Council was held to discuss the need for adoption by the Supreme Council of statements in connection with the use of the national authorities of Ukraine to exert pressure on national MPs. So I'm going to ask you to vote for inclusion, and when it's included, then I'm going to read the content of this project that's prepared. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's application. [[6:18:43]] For 202 The Conciliation Board decision is not supported. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we continue our work at 10 a.m. schedule for Friday. Thanks for the job.
