ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u1	People's deputies please take their seats, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:46]] Registered -412 A total of 412 national deputies were registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. For the Cibenko procedure. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u2	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Alexander Alexiyovich, I have a request for you. At the end of the morning session, we made a sad mistake. The point is that the bill, which we voted on last, has every reason to accept it in general. First, because the committee asked to accept it in the second reading and in general, first. It's different. It's a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers, and it's been worked pretty hard. And thirdly, what the Legal Authority observes, if there's a fourth, a fifth reading, it's not going to go away, it's essentially a technical observation. So I'm asking you to put this document together for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u3	National Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking that we, after all, vote on this system bill as one that touches state aid instead of a pension on an insurance basis. Because people are waiting for him, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is waiting for him. And it's practically the right head of the committee today that we can't accept another. This bill is agreed upon by the government, a government bill aimed at reforming Ukraine's pension system. Please support and vote in the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u5	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! If there is no objection, I am prepared to put to the vote the whole bill on which the request is made by the national deputy Suskević and the relevant committee of profile. I can see so much that we have no objection in the hall. So now, you're on the other side. There's a denial. So who has the objection, please. Turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Budagyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u6	Remarkable friends, distinguished homeowners, great friends, and friends! The point is that you and I voted in the first reading for the fact that the Latuginian science and production combination remained on lists that were not to be privatized. And now, for about six months, the draft has not been submitted to the session. I'm beginning to suspect that this is where some dark, dark forces are involved, which in these cases use this environment. I most convincingly request that you put this on the agenda today and vote that the issue be removed from the agenda. Because this enterprise is large and not only large, it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, we will allow the secretariat to intervene in matters of dark power and make appropriate suggestions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the microphone of the people's deputy Matvienkov, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u8	Matvienkov, 55th Mariupol County. Respectable colleagues, Law 4011 is a law that is the subject of reform of the entire pension system. And we today, when we are dealing with this issue and we are talking about reforming the dynamic pension system, it would be desirable for us to adopt this law so that we can distinguish those people who are currently receiving a paid pension from those who have for some reason failed to earn it. It's purely technical. Therefore, I do not think there are any serious comments on this bill in the Chamber. I ask him to put and vote in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would separate that question from everyone else. If there's no comment on that, let's make a proposal now and put the whole bill 4011 to a vote, let's go back to it. The last of the people's deputies, Bespali. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u10	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I'm completely in line with Matvienkov's offer. I think there's a technical problem. And I especially insist on my 51st and 52nd. The thing is, this is about the return of social assistance to the over-recovery. All such abuse lists must be closed. Otherwise, they're just going to draw people off on ground, then return help. For example, it says that filing documents with false information is correct, failing to report changes in family composition is correct. But then there's the word "whatever." So it turns out that based on the open list, on that word and so forth, people are going to take back who they want this material aid. There can be no repressive sanctions, open lists. So I'm just, it's a little text change, but it's significant essentially. I insist on 51st, 52nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u11	National MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u12	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, during the morning break, we agreed that we would definitely discuss today the prohibition of the privatisation of the Chrysalis. This question was discussed at the Conciliation Council, most of the deputies said, and we reached a consensus that we would ask this question either before lunch or after lunch, and no one was denied. I ask you to put the question to the vote on the inclusion of this issue and on the vote today with the common consensus reached. You know something's going on with the combination. The question was initially supported by the hall, and today we need to identify and include it in the second list of non-privatizations. The corresponding number is 5043.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u13	The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u14	Thank you, Alexander Alexiyovich, for the opportunity to speak. Dear colleagues, I support the demands that were made this morning, which we have written on a socialist race board, precisely regarding the prohibition of the privatization of the Crimsons. The point is that our block of Julia Timoshenko made the right decision on this issue. And we can now put it into the agenda and vote on this decision. This decision is very short. Everyone saw it, and they don't really need to talk about it. So, Alexandre Alexiyovich, I think, and the other factions that have expressed themselves on the Conciliation Council are going to consider this issue in an express way and stop the destruction of the flagman of the Ukrainian and former Soviet Union metallurgy. It's the biggest business, it's profitable. Why is the state turning down profitable businesses in favor of the oligarchic clans that now occupied Ukraine? Let's wait three months after the candidates win.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u15	Thank you. Let's separate one question from the other. There are questions about Bill 4011. The comments of National Deputy Boris Bespalogo, Valery Mikhajlovich Suškević, a statement made by the committee headed by the committee. So I'm putting to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, the bill of the Law on State Social Assistance for Unemployed Persons, the registration number of Project 4011, as a whole, with the amendments that were expressed and included in Boris Bespalogo's transcript. Please vote. [[16:11:18]] For 239. Decision taken. As for the second, the next question, about the combination of "Criminal." You know that the bill 2405-11 has been joined or separated by a number of bills and thoughts. There are bills 2405/15P-1, submitted by Polyakov and others and so on. So the first thing we need to do is, will we go back to that question today? We really agreed on this at the Conciliation Council in the morning and said we'd be back after lunch during the evening session. Now we need to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. I'm putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the prohibition of the privatization of "Criminals". Please make up your mind. [[16:12:43]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 86, "Ukraine" - 2, "Communist faction - 59, "Deminicatives" - 0, "The People's Government" - 1, "The People's Republic" - 1, "The People's Republic" - 1, "The People's Republic" - 19, "Centre" - 17, "Timoshenko Block - 19, "NDP" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 4. National MP Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u16	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, respectable Alexander Aleksevich! The question is not an empty one, because the combination of Crimsonstall, in fact, is one of those enterprises that work cost-effectively and, of course, the State budget is very substantial. All that has to do with privatization today is, inevitably, that these funds go under various pretexts into the pockets of those who are supposed to be the fictitious owner and are not budgeted by the State to deal with many social issues, as is the problem of Krudpromma, Skrutelecoma, which is the basic enterprises that are still constituting the economic independence of our State. Therefore, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Communist faction, I ask you to reflect on what should not be done during the electoral campaign between certain clans, but rather to think about the State and to suggest, Alexander Aleksevic, to vote and include this enterprise in the agenda and to preserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u17	Thank you. Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u18	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! At a meeting of the special review committee in December, it was decided that the combination should be left in state ownership, especially since the budget of the combination is 2 billion dollars. In addition, we have a call from the labour community, a call from the city council, district council deputies, so that there is no tension in the region, because there is a solution to the issue of the social sphere. Please, let's go back to this question, and let's look at it in terms of the President's veto and the President's veto, and let's pause privatization today, because it's actually not even allowed to be properly evaluated in this object. That's what I'm talking about officially as the head of the Special Monitoring Commission. We, the socialists, demand that we share the session hall with each other on this issue. This object cannot be privatized without taking the entire region’s opinion into account. If we don't want it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u19	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u20	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. I would like to point out that those who did not support the consideration of this issue actually signed up for their involvement in privatization processes. I'd like to put these "privatization processes" in quotes. And all the things that are now being said, and, and the Creatures, and the Crucifixion, and all the rest. So what I'm stressing is that we're talking about the question of how to explain, how to allow each side to stand up. One who says that privatization is five times less than the cost of this facility, if the state wants to get $700 million for it, with 600 million dollars a year, let them stand on the stand and clearly convince the rest of the room. Because hiding behind a vote is hiding your head in the sand. Because when it's embezzled, the state property of Ukraine is stolen, and it's happening in the walls of the legislature, it's at least wrong, and everyone who does it has to be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u21	Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u22	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yuschenko's faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues. At times, there is a moment of truth in one area or another of our activities. And now, in the area of privatization, this moment of truth has come to the fore when it comes to the question of CROOSTALY. We can't close our eyes to the fact that this super-profit enterprise can actually go to the property of one of the financial-oligaric clans. The "Our Ukraine" faction for privatization, but in this situation, it's not privatization, it's a robbery of the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. We are firmly opposed to this and we demand that the faction "Our Ukraine" require that we return to this issue and vote once again to include it in the agenda so that we can consider essentially that the special parliamentary review committee understands what is going on there and informs us in fact. After that, we will make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u23	Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u24	Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear National Deputies! It is about privatizing a phenomenal, unique object. The official profitability of this plant is about $400 million. Plus, what happens when you sell metal through middle-sized structures is another $600 million. The factory makes an annual profit of about $1 billion. And today, there's an attempt to privatize this factory, which has to give a huge amount of budget costs at no cost. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no right to stand outside this process. I'm asking my fellow members to support the consideration of the situation surrounding the privatisation of the Crusades.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u25	Frost Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u26	Dear fellow MPs! Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Today, the Krivorizstal combine has become the subject of a trade between certain political and financial groups in the context of the next presidential campaign. But I want to tell you -- those who are counting on one or the other vote or to block the debate on this issue -- it's not the way you plan to do it. So with this in mind, take a break, and do not allow yourself to stretch the property of the state today. Because we've all voted positively with you all on this matter, which has already been raised by the President. But once again, it's not about the interests of those you support, and finally everyone loses, the state loses. I'm asking you very convincingly, especially that the group represented by the vice-cruisers has not figured out how to vote. If you put that question on the vote again and we define it as a positive one, then we get to know the truth and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! We convince each other that we have to vote, but we have to vote just in time. I won't break the rules. That's why I'm putting one vote on the vote. Are you ready to go back to that question, first. Careful. Are you ready to go back to that question? Please vote. [[16:20:58]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine -94, Regions -2, Communists -59, SDPU - 2, Dem. Initiatives, People's Government -3, Labour Ukraine -0.SPU-20, Center -11, Yulia Block Timoshenko -19, NDP, Industrialists -0, Agriculture -1, National Choice -1, Postfraction -2. Let's get back to work. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families is under discussion. [[on the subsistence minimum for children in a multi-child family]] [[second reading]] Dear colleagues! I'm not breaking the Rules. Everything was taken into account, there was a double vote, I won't put it to the vote again. Let's move forward. Dear colleagues, we're either working, or let's make a statement. Victor Mikhailovich, do you have statements or not? If there are statements -- let's do it, if there's no statements -- I'll keep going. At the request of the faction "Ukrainian" and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I hereby announce, in accordance with the Rules, a break of thirty minutes. Let's get back to work at 4:00. 54 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Take your seats, please. On behalf of two factions, from our Ukraine and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, especially the region of Crevice. I would like to inform you that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the faction of our Ukraine today have taken a break in order of the day on the situation or the suspension of the privatisation of the Crimsonstall factory, resulting from two factors. First of all, the world experience of privatization suggests that objects are privatized, that are unprofitable, corrupt, and that we are looking for an effective investor. That is exactly what our current legislation provides. The Creebrisstal factory is now a profitable 45 percent profitability in the first quarter, and 30 percent of the previous year is saying that this factory can work on government property and provide adequate budget replenishment. The other one. We, the Supreme Council, have received a call from the labour force, city council members, about 37 signatures from city dwellers who are concerned that after the privatization of the facility, the whole social sphere is unclear who will be responsible for it, whether or not the local budget will be drawn up, how will the transfer of the social sphere be? All of this is not reflected in both the terms of the competition and the conditions that are currently being met during privatization. There's tension in the right region. That is why I am addressing the members of the Supreme Council, who voted on 20 November this year to include this enterprise in a list of sites that are not privatized. We voted, almost 280 votes. The president vetoed it. It is his personal interest that this object be purchased directly by his son - in - law. I realize it's only one person's wish. Given that we were chosen by citizens, I especially address most of us. We're responsible for budgeting, which is almost two billion revenue from the company's work. I'm asking you, let's put it in the agenda and consider stopping the privatisation of the competition or suspending the competition. This is a draft decision prepared by both socialists and communists and our Ukraine and representatives, individual representatives of the majority. Let us consider the matter and not put the object on top of the individual appropriate clans. This is going to be our civic position. Let us not bury our heads in the sand of that object that is now profitable and that gives profit to the State. We still have to consider the situation. If today we are talking about government property being ineffective, then the question arises: Why privatize an object that is profitable? I think we should consider this issue in the session room and put it to a re-vote on the draft ruling prepared by representatives of MPs and factions, represented by representatives of the Socialist faction, Our Ukraine, the Communist faction, the Fatherland, separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-18-m1.u30	I've got the position. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have done everything as it should be. Dear colleagues, we put the vote twice. And we're done with the procedure. We're either going to go to the next bill now, or we're going to finish today's session. That's why I'm announcing Bill 3565, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families on living for children in a multi-child family. Second reading. Dear colleagues, the two factions are proposing a recess. In connection with the fact that we have 17 hours. I declare tonight's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The next meeting will take place at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
