ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:48]] The 410 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorovich. Let's say hello to him, especially since the Jubilee is 65 years old. And we want strong health and further success in responsible parliamentary work. I would like to say that I have been rewarded with the highest prize of the Supreme Council, Georgi Grigorovich, with the honour of honouring the Supreme Council on the occasion of the Jubilee and for active public, political activity. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I will inform you of the departure of Ukrainian national deputies, Mr. Oleg Alexanderovich, Mr. Kafari Vladimir Ivanovich, Mr. Olujka Vitalija Mikolaiovich and Mr. Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, from the Democratic People's Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. I now ask the factions to consider filling their ranks for 14 days. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Dear colleagues, before the request is announced, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on December 14. 19 agenda issues have been considered: 22 bills, two draft regulations and proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act. As a result of the review, three laws were passed, one law was passed in a new edition following the consideration of President Ukraine's proposals, four bills were adopted in the first reading, 13 bills were rejected, one bill was submitted for redrafting, one bill was transposed, two decrees were adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I now move on to the question of MPs. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: ROBERT to the President of Ukraine regarding the irresponsible attitude of the authorities of all levels over six years before the burning of the apartment building in Simferopol. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:16]] For 105 Request not supported. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council on the critical situation that took place in the Pregonov sugar plant of the Golovon region of Kirovograd. Valeria SAMOPLAVSKI AND MICHALI SHERSHUNA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the delay in repairing the bridge across the Teterów River in Radomisl. Alexander MASSENKA's executive duty as Prime Minister to prevent the alienation of Ukrainian Children's Hospital “Ohmatdit”. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Acting Prime Minister for the insufficient financing of the reconstruction of the teaching body of the Bilocerkow State Agrarian University Technology and Economic College. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOVO to the prime minister's executive responsibility for the problem of paying taxes on budgets and public trust funds. Anatholic of the Rachansk Prime Minister for the delay of the Cabinet of Ministers in the implementation of the Supreme Council Decision on the 60th Year of the Yaltine Conference. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENK for the Acting Prime Minister on the issue of funding from the State Budget of the Zaporez Region. Mr. Vladimir ČERNJAK and Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA are under the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Tax Administration, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime with the President of Ukraine regarding the situation that has arisen in connection with the attempt to carry out illegal privatization in favour of the foreign criminal structures of the package of shares of the private limited stock company “Ukratatnafta”. The Prime Minister's responsibility to the irresponsibility of the authorities of the State is to ensure that the apartment building in Simferopol is incinerated for six years. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to serve as Prime Minister for the provision of heat to the population in the cities of Kozyatin, Kalinivka, and Hmitnik of the Winnitsky region. Jury KARMAZINA to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the State Property Fund for the Prevention of the Destruction of the Ukrainian State-owned Corporation “Ukrist countrynaftogazün”, which according to the Treaty of Ukraine with the Government of the Republic of Turkey with the Turkish oil company “Botash”, is designated the contractor of the project for the construction of the Jahan-Samsun oil pipeline system. Alexander MOROZA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Head of the Pension Fund Government for the unlawful renewal of the Pension Insurance and Inequitable Retirement Board, depending on the time of retirement. Anatoly by ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko on the inappropriate response of agricultural officials with a limited responsibility to the “Slavutic” District of Berislav, in the Hersonian region, to refer shareholders to the problems of land relations. People of Kirichenko to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Red Luch in the investigation of a criminal case under article 118 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Gennady WUDOVENKA to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the misconduct of officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office and internal affairs bodies of the city of Kanyev Cherkas region in the investigation of a criminal case brought against the director of the Society with limited responsibility for “Kanów Nafta”. Mikoli PAVLEKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Cessation of the Ukrmorport State Association, which was created in the order of the experiment, due to the unsatisfactory results of his work. BORISS OF THE UNREPLE to the Attorney General about the criminalization of the head of the Central Electoral Commission, Sergio Kiwalov, for causing the State’s damage in a particularly large way. JANUARY to the Attorney General about the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the city of Simferopol, who suffered from a serious crime. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on criminal cases and discharge from the internal affairs authorities of the first deputy chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Chernigiv region in connection with events that took place in Montenegro on November 26, 2004. People of KIRIČENKO to the Attorney-General on the invocation of the responsibility of private officials of the company “FOBOS” for the non-payment of salaries to employees. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General, head of the State Committee for the Protection of the Rights of the People of Kiev, a group with disabilities, as a result of an accident in production. Aleksandra CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney General on the fact of the detention of the head of the Association of People's Lawyers, Jaroslav Vaszczuk in the isolation unit of the temporary detention of the city of Herson. Oleg GUMENUKA to the Attorney General in connection with the absence of a response by the Office of the Prosecutor of the Mikolai district to complaints and a statement by a trusted candidate for the post of President of Ukraine on the violation of electoral legislation in Electoral District No. 134 during the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21, 2004. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of Government of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Head of the General Audit and Audit Authority, Head of the Chernigiv District Public Administration on the abuse of office by the Head of the Management of Novgorod-Siberia on the gas supply and gasification of the Open Shareholder Society “Chernignewgaz”. MIKOLI PAULUKA to the Attorney General on the use of measures to halt the embezzlement and acquisition of state property at the Odessa Seaport. Anatolia NALIWAIKA to the Attorney General on a criminal case involving the head of the Olchowat village council of the city of Yenakiyeva. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Bobrovic City Head, on the situation around the Central Bobrovic Market. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General for the violation of legislation in the registration of the additional issue of shares of the Open Shareholders Association “Mikolayivagroproject Design Institute”. Paul RABIKINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service on the gross violation of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens by means of the massive misuse of reinforced certificates during the re-vote on 21 November 2004 from the election of the President of Ukraine within the territorial constituency No. 132. Mr. Aleksandra CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption on the course of criminal proceedings, violated by a gang attack on the observer of the third division of the 49th District of the Donetsk Region of Miron Bodnar. MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Attorney General for violations of legislation on resorts and conservation laws by officials of the Soločany and Doubin Rural Councils in the area of Zacarpathia. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney-General on the gross violation by individual officials of the Vichynické and Putil district government administrations of the Montenegrin Region of article 64 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine on pre-election agitation. Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, Minister of Internal Affairs, Authorized Human Rights Supreme Council on torture by the investigating authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the city of Anakiyeva, citizen of Alexander Kornienka. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney-General on the biased treatment of officials and officials of executives and local self-government, obstacles to the free exercise of the right to choose by way of bribery with the involvement of shadow funds at the local level, the costs of the central and district election headquarters of one of the candidates for the post of President of Ukraine in Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk electoral district No.144 of Odessa. Oleg GUMENUKA to the Attorney General in connection with the lack of response by the Office of Internal Affairs of the City of Pervomaysk of Mikolaiyivsk of the region to a parliamentary appeal for violations during the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21, 2004. Valery ASADCHEVA to the Attorney General for signs of harassment in the actions of individual officials, the State Tax Inspectorate of the Poltav region. Mr Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General on the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the administration of justice, the tax inspection of the Yellow District of Dnipropetrovska for violating the Ukrainian law on the election of the President of Ukraine. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the District Electoral Commission No.70 of the territorial constituency No.223 of Kiev, Yuri Zontova, and a member of the Vejacheslav Penkowski commission for direct participation in the falsification of the results of the elections. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of inflaming national hostility by distributing provocative leaflets of an anti - Semitic nature in Odessa. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General on the situation surrounding the Poltava District Library for Children of Panas Mirnoj. Paul RABIKIN to the Attorney-General on the gross violation of electoral legislation during the October 31st 2004 vote and the re-voting vote of 21 November 2004 from the election of the President of Ukraine to the separate constituencies of the territorial constituency No. 132. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Transport for the Mass Reduction of Passengers' Railway Depo Odessa-Glavna, for violation of their constitutional rights to work and social protection, for the establishment of economically unfavourable and harmful contracts for Odessa Railways with commercial enterprises for the performance of the functions performed by the dismissed persons. Ms Sergia SLABENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Justice, on the payment of arrears on salary in an open stock company “Osnastka” in Novovolinsk Volinsk district. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister of Justice concerning the granting of permission for the connection of the Poltava Municipal Company “Inventory” in the Velikobagach region to the electronic Register of Real Estate Rights. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Minister of Defense for Information on Unwarranted Transfer of Military Paids to Support Groups of Candidate for Presidentship of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovic. Vassil Nadraghi to the Minister of Defense for the purpose of clarifying the validity of the pension for military personnel. Vitalia OLUYKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the financing of the conduct of pollution and the disposal of poisons by the Open Association “Agrohim” of the Biological Region of the Hmelni district. Mr. Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service for the Prevention of Violations of Citizens' Rights and Freedoms during the second round of elections of the President of Ukraine. valentine SAVICZI to the First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy for the Gasification of the Village of Markówka Baranov of the Žitomir Region. Stephen HMARI to the Head of the Security Service for the immediate arrest of Eugene Kushnarov, Ruslan Bodelan, Anatoly Blissnik, Boris Koleznikov, Alexander Efraemov and Viktor Tikhov as suspects in the attack on the integrity and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the Head of the Supreme Court on the investigation of the removal of documents from the court of the originals by the judge of the Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev, as well as the speeding up of the Supreme Court of Jurczuk. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court on the unlawful actions of the Department of State Executive Services of the Lenin District Court of Kirovograd. Michael VOLENCE to the Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs for Dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary question about the organized persecution of observer students in the election of the President of Ukraine. Stepan Cloud to the Head of the Kiev City Public Administration on the organization of the organization and legal form of the operation of the newspaper “Evening Kiev” and the renewal of the release of the newspaper “Fazenda”, and the renewal of the work of the liberated staff of this publication. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Head of the Security Service on the response of the Security Service to the outbreak of interregional and interethnic hostility in Ukraine by Russian ORT and RTR channels. VALLERY TO THE Head of the Security Service on the mass violations of Ukrainian electoral rights during the re-vote in the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21st this year. Alexander PECLUŠENKA’s responsibility to the Head of the National Bank for the situation in connection with the financing of the territory of the Zaporozhye Region of the State Budget of Ukraine. Oleksa ZARUBINSKI to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the legal principles of Russian television programmes ORT and RTR in the Ukrainian relay network. Lesya Tanjuka and Oleg Rybaczuk to the prosecutor of the Luhansk region on the beating of the Lugansk rally on November 29, 2004. Victor TARAN to the rector of Suma National Agrarian University for a criminal offence against university officials who violated electoral legislation. [[TERRITO]] Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the completion of investigations by prosecutors and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine into the activities of an organized criminal group composed solely of members of the Criminal Regional Customs. That's how. Oh, Crimean, that's what it says here, I read it. Crimean regional customs, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, this is how 62 parliamentary inquiries were made. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 23; Communist faction - 11; "Ukraine - 4; "Trudova Ukraine" - 1; People's Agrarian - 2; Soccer - 6, Block Timoshenko - 5; Alliance - 1; NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 5; Centre - 3; non-fractional - 1. Total: 63. Let's move on to the performances. Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to announce today that on 14 December 2004, the Kyiv Court of Appeal has suspended the mandate of the National Deputy, Satsuka Vladimir Mikolaiovich. And I want you to know, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, what they want to do now in the President's Administration is to give a backlog of what appears to be the order for Mr. Satsuk's release so that this decision of the court, which has been pending and so on, can be nullified. That's why I'm asking you to make an official announcement that you've been suspended and given notice, because this is your statement before the Supreme Council, and that it be reported to the CEC that a new election procedure has been initiated in that constituency that is being released after the national deputy, Satsuka Vladimir Mikolaiovich, who has expressed his desire to work in the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I can only do this. I don't know what they're doing in the President's office. I can only confirm one thing that, in accordance with the ruling of the Regulatory Committee on October 12, 2004, materials relating to the reconciliation of posts by national deputy Satsuk were referred to the Court of Appeal in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. Yesterday, yes, the Court of Appeal adopted a decision satisfying the statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Satsuk Volodymir Mikolajovic. Anything else I can't comment on or comment on. And now I don't know enough of this message. I ask the Secretariat to take appropriate action on the basis of the decision of the Kyiv City Court of Appeal. Let us move on to the presentations of the authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions. Ivan Sidorovich Boki from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u4	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine authorized me to state such requirements for strengthening the social protection of citizens in the State Budget Act 2005. The solution to many of the mature problems of pensioners, many children, military, Chernobyl, people with disabilities, education and science, culture, and health care should be laid down in the main law of the year - state budget. The socialists are demanding, first of all, to do everything possible not to lower the standard of living of people, to legally establish a minimum pension on a level of 284 bracelets, to differentiate pensions according to internship and work plan, as required by the law. Under conditions of economic order, the fuel-energy sector, natural monopolies, customs, Ukraine's borders, the minimum pensions and salaries should not be lower than 400 dollars per month. We insist on differences in tax benefits that operate in the so - called free economic zones, avoiding rising energy prices, and public utilities. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine requires the government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to ensure through the budget implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children, and we have millions of them. We require the government in the draft budget to cut down on the spending on the power structures, especially the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to anticipate support for the country's innovative development, repayment of debts over the past years to educators, scientists, rural intelligence, support for young people and students. Socialists demand that the State budget reflect the active support of the agro-industrial complex, domestic engineering, electronics, energy, publishing, such as bookkeeping and literary journals, the activities of the national creative communities of the National and Sectoral National Academy of Sciences. We consider it necessary to adopt the budget this year, with at least 40 percent of the domestic gross product being redistributed through the budget, to target the local budgets at least half of all the funds. It's enough in Ukraine to have two budgets -- one State, and the other shadow oligarchic, which turns the state into a criminal zone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u5	Yes, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik of "Our Ukraine" is invited to the presentation. Prepare the Lycan Lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The dead man is taken by the legs of the living, so you can describe the government's resignation, the 2005 budget. The key social orientations of this budget have deteriorated as prices rise by the end of this year, as well as the planned pace next year. In spite of this, the government has not added a single penny to the salaries of doctors, teachers, and cultural workers. This time the increase in wages remained at the level of the previous budget - 10.5 percent. Parliament has decided to approve a living minimum of 432 bracelets, a budget of 382 bracelets. And most important. Today it became quite clear that the attempt to deceive Ukrainian pensioners had been made to pay for the pension, which was foreseen only during the electoral campaign, because in the draft budget, we already had a figure that we called the pension deficit seven billion dollars. And that figure is now budgeted. But this decision is wrong. It's wrong because that makes it a problem to pay pensions not only in 2005 but also in 2006. I'll give you two digits: the average wage after the next year of 768 dollars. This means that such a salary provides an average pension of 240 dollars. The average pension in Ukraine for December is 320. There's no money for every pensioner in the pension fund. We all realize that the benefits that are currently being paid by Ukrainian pensioners can and cannot be cancelled. Moreover, they should be considered not as a supplement but should be included in the pension. Steps should also be taken to differentiate pensions according to internships and earnings, since the government has compensated all Ukrainian pensioners. The only right solution that allows us to get out of this difficult situation is to raise the minimum wage to 300 dollars and raise the salary in the budget by 35 percent. This requires a change in the cost structure of the budget, because it is not only a good step towards budget workers, it gives a resource to the Pension Fund, a resource where Ukrainian pensioners are guaranteed to receive supplementary pensions and Ukrainian pensioners can receive a differentiated pension depending on their internships and earnings. We found ourselves in a difficult situation because of the start of the budget year, and the government, as you recall, blocked the consideration and adoption of the budget. I'm sure we can find solutions that will allow us to start funding from 2005, but that budget ideology, the old government's budget, doesn't have the right to live next year. We have to accept a completely different socially oriented budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u7	Lejko Grigorovitch Lukjanenko is invited to address the block of Julia Timoshenko. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to express the dissatisfaction our faction, our position, the relationship between the Supreme Council and our President. The President is clearly ignoring the Supreme Council, and I see in this the great humiliation of our higher legislature in Ukraine. He ignores our decisions, and he is disorganizing the relationship between the Supreme Council and the President himself. We, the Supreme Council, resigned the Cabinet of Ministers -- the President didn't sign it. Then it turns out that our president -- he just carried it around, he starts acting to the detriment of our entire state. I'd like you to know, and I'd like an explanation from Kuchma, in what way he's now awarded the state prizes of Azarov, Pinchuk, Pinchuk's father. For what great merit do they have before Ukraine for the President to reward them with State bonuses? Next. Our President assigned the highest diplomatic rank to Tobacco. For what reason? How did he do that? The smoker did not work at diplomatic work for a single day, and there is no reason to put up with such a high rank. It is Kuchma’s fault that local authorities do not collect taxes or add taxes to the State budget. Thus, relations in the state are being violated and normal activity is also being violated by our President himself. Our faction filed on December 3rd and registered an order to terminate the President's mandate. We believe, and I would like the Supreme Council to return to this act and express its mistrust to the President. Because in the course of the time that President Kuchma has left, he can still do so many things that are damaging to our Ukraine itself. This problem is now becoming extremely important and acute, for Kuchma has lost his sense of responsibility for his office, his responsibility to Ukraine, and acts as an irresponsible person. That's why we need to go back to our act and stop authorizing the President. The Supreme Council must show that it is the supreme legislative body in Ukraine and that the will of the Supreme Council must be law and must not be disregarded.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Bogdan Hubsky, the "One Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Prepare Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The "One Ukraine" party claims its position in the struggle for Ukrainian citizens' rights. The party is in solidarity with the Ukrainian people and supports the active state position of Ukrainian citizens, especially young people. We have seen that the words of the Constitution bear sovereignty and the only source of power in Ukraine is the people. The right to determine and change the constitutional system in Ukraine belongs exclusively to the people and cannot be usurped by the State, its organs or officials." So these words have come into people's minds, become the real meaning of their lives, and this gives us faith in awakening the national consciousness and formation in Ukraine of a political nation. That's why the party says it won't allow society to develop the ideas of secessionism, the attempts of federalization and the division of the country. We strongly condemn the decisions of individual authorities of local self - government and government that are aimed at violating territorial integrity and can lead to the destruction of Ukraine as a multinational assembly state. The initiators of actions that threaten the constitutional system, democracy and national security, in our view, must personally respond to the people of Ukraine. The party mobilizes all its capabilities to, together with the voters, oppose any effort to administratively influence the voting process, falsify the results of the elections, or prevent an honest vote in the election of the President of Ukraine on 26 December of this year. To that end, we have decided to set up a public election control group, because any attempt to prevent the will of the electorate is unconstitutional. As a result, we require all executive authorities and local self-government to ensure strict compliance with the provisions of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine and insist on the application of all forms of punishment to its violators, including criminal liability in accordance with existing legislation. Despite attempts to shake society, today the citizens of Ukraine are the only ones in the main to hold elections and to elect the President of Ukraine on December 26, 2004. That is the wisdom of our Ukrainian people. That's why the "One Ukraine" party calls on political and social organizations to be with us in a bid not to allow elections to be broken down and to organise social control in the elections of the President of Ukraine on December 26th. Respectable Society! We'll save the only Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u11	Sergey Tereshuk is invited to speak from the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Without a doubt, Ukraine’s worst problem today is the political one that arose in connection with the election of the president. In this situation, we need to find understanding and continue to follow only a civilized course. But life did not stop. Businesses work, life - support facilities work, but daily there are many issues that need urgent consideration and solutions. Thus, according to the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, immediate intervention is needed in recent times with the financing of agricultural programmes through the Ministry of Agrarian Policy as the chief budget manager. In view of the transfer of part of the annual limit to December, December’s plan has been increased by 282 million, and it now accounts for 670 million dollars or 25 percent of the annual amount. In the first decade of December, however, funds were allocated only to the financing of protected articles. The transfer of allocation limits by the end of the year threatens the full use of the public budget funds for the agricultural sector. In this way, only partial compensation for the costs of agricultural seedlings is provided for some 200 million dollars, which the peasants had planned for the summer, but which they had never received before. There is a threat of funding in the full range of such important programs as the supplement to the implementation of high-weighted young people, pigs, broilers, financial support to enterprises through the short-term lending mechanism. Along with this complexity in the social political situation in the country, it has made it very difficult to obtain loans. The financial situation of enterprises and the significant increase in prices of fuel-oil materials and the decrease in prices of agricultural products have been significantly affected. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Agrarian Party Faction requires the Government and requests support from the Supreme Council to ensure that all state support programmes for agricultural production by the end of the year are fully funded so that they do not disrupt Minfin's performance by the very next few days must send at least 400 million dollars to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, in order to grant our legal status requirements, please consider this part of our application as a parliamentary request. And secondly, it is equally important that the Committee considered several drafts yesterday, because of the changes in the field of taxation, the activities of our enterprises in the following year are much more complicated, so our faction asks us to support Bill 6363, which was introduced by members of our agrarian faction, which will be considered tomorrow. This bill will temporarily suspend the law in 1878, which is extremely burdensome for agricultural enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u13	Vassil Ivanovich Nadrag of the MP group Soyuz, then Valerius Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u14	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk Region, Alliance of Deputies. Dear colleagues, we are on Monday at the Conciliation Council, where the leaders of the factions, the parliamentary groups, have decided that the Committees will meet again today in the Conciliation Commission and that, in conjunction with the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, the draft budget for 2005 will be discussed tomorrow in this room. Why do we, as the Alliance's parliamentary group, question and appeal to all without exception to support the adoption of the budget before the first of January next year, because there is a budget document under which the budget is financed, i.e., largely without that document, there will be no funding that will meet the most exciting moments of society and people in that State. Let me give you some examples. What happens if the budget is not adopted? First, there will be no increase in the minimum wage since 1 January 2005. Second, no compensation will be paid for the years 97-2000 to teachers and academic and pedagogical workers for years, which we have not talked about here once before, we have passed laws. There will be no step-by-step regulation of the pensions of military personnel in charge and in the ranks, a topic that has also not been discussed once. There will be no 2.3-fold increase in scholarships for students, respectively, and there will be no double social guarantees for war and work veterans on Victory Day, on sanatorium treatment and on others, provided for in the relevant status of the War Veterans Act. There will be no increase in the living minimum. No compensation will be paid to the Pension Fund for receiving and issuing targeted assistance, i.e., if there is no budget, the 284 bracelets that retirees receive by December will not be paid as of 1 January. [[I'm asking you to pay attention to that.]] We will not then be able to introduce legislation on social guarantees for the free feeding of students in the 1-4 classes, for single payments to scientists and for the assistance of orphans. The second is that without the adoption of the budget before the first of January, local budgets will not be able to be established and education, health care, housing and utilities, and all that hangs as responsibility, local budgets will not be implemented. On the basis of the foregoing, distinguished colleagues, the Alliance's parliamentary group, we urge you to forget all our political ambitions and claims and to adopt the 2005 budget before the first of January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now invited by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovich. I ask your attention, honourable national MPs, that the factions of the "Ukraine Region", "Trudova Ukraine", the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Group "Democratic Initiatives" hand over their right to speak to Valeria Mishuri. [[united]] So 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u16	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. American Congressman Ron Paul stated that Yushchenka’s electoral campaign was partly financed by the US government, but not directly, but through NGOs and American and Ukrainian. As you know, on December 11, last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine established a temporary commission of inquiry to establish foreign intervention in financing electoral campaigns in Ukraine through non-state organizations that exist on a grant of foreign states entrusted to me to lead. I say that the work of the commission is openly blocked by those who simply want to drown the issue. During the year of the commission’s existence, she had never met in a quorum warehouse. I realize that the truth is the eyes of the circle, and when it hurts, it is usually rehearsed. The commission had never met in a quorum warehouse. The same was true yesterday, although each member of the commission was warned in writing. So I'm grateful as head of the commission to those factions that gave me time to inform you about the research we did. The financing of non-state organizations, the NDOs are short-circuited, there's enough from abroad, there's all new and new. Some of them were published in the session hall in May of this year in a previous report. Here's what I want to point out right now. Experts at the Center for Economic and Political Research of Razumkov, who has recently headed Anatoly Grizzenko, are now working on one of the key directions at Yashchenka headquarters. So this centre says, I quote: "There is no public funding by Russia of certain subjects in Ukraine for the purpose of influencing the nature of the elections. The attention of Russian federations to Ukrainian NDOs is low and practical cooperation is lacking." This is the magazine National Security and Defence, page five of this year, page 27. Instead, as a result of research into many of the NDO’s activities, journalists were conveniently baptized with Grantoids, and that was the conclusion reached. There is a systemic long-term, funded by the United States and the countries of the West, the activities of NGOs in Ukraine, aimed at promoting Western social and political values, ensuring that Ukrainian legislation is flawed by the open influence on social and political processes, supporting certain political forces that have essentially become lobbyists of Western interests in Ukraine. Factors of influence through grants are undoubtedly used to support democratic forces that are now concentrated in the camp of right opposition. Political reasoning and the Western influence methodology are extremely frank and cynical in the expression of John Herbst, an outstanding and authoritative ambassador of the United States. I quote, "The United States can only be true friends with countries that share not only our interests, but our values." Another quote: "There are people in Ukraine who claim that diplomats should not interfere with the debate on elections in Ukraine. It is the cynicism of the most open species. " And another quote: "The United States Embassy will point to a violation of the right of any candidate." I cannot help but remind you that the Vienna Convention 1138, which regulates the functions of embassies, provides a comprehensive list of these functions, in which no diplomat has the right to assess the internal and external policies of the embassies and all the more criticise the actions of the local authorities. But unfortunately, we've gotten used to the fact that the United States has openly behaved towards Ukraine as a colony of right-wing Ukrainian opposition and with the inability of our power to respond to constant interference in our internal affairs, let alone direct images. An analysis of the NDO’s activities shows that the main efforts to organize the influence of foreign nations are focused on working with those who form public opinion. This is a political elite: national MPs, government officials, journalists, political scientists, heads of local self - government. The most active in Ukraine are the structures of the American presence of the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute, the Eurasian Foundation. [[MRI]] [[NDI]] Interuse Ukraine, the International Rebirth Fund, which, with the support of the U.S. Embassy and the International Development Agency, implements political education projects, monitors the social and political situation at the centre and in places, provides technical and financial support to so-called "independent" media. Similar work is being done in Ukraine and Western European structures through the NDO, represented by countries such as Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Poland, the European Union. I'm going to give you some examples of how that 65 million US dollars could be spent that were named in the applications. A few directions. First, work with opposition parties and blocs and their youth sub-structures in the form of conferences, seminars, trainings, members of Central and Regional Organisations of Our Ukraine, BUT and socialists on the creation of primary organizations, the development of electoral strategies, the preparation of observers and members of electoral committees, the monitoring of media materials, the management of electoral resources, the search for allies and the coordination of activities with them, the information support of a bloc and the disqualification of Ukrainian officials in the eyes of the global community. The Ukrainian representative of the American NDO works under the leadership of the U.S. International Development Agency as part of a foreign donor forum. I'll give you some examples: The Agency proposed that in 2004 10 to 13 million dollars be allocated for the implementation of programmes related to the election of the President of Ukraine. From April to September, it was planned to hold about 130 seminars for representatives of political parties to participate in the preparation of observers. The cost of the Citizens' Election Control programme in Ukraine for 2004 is $1 million. The foreign donor forum includes the National Democratic Institute, the International Republican Institute, the Friedenhouse, the Solidarity Centre and the Sorosov Foundation for Rebirth. Several examples of their activities. An independent media company called Gus, head of the media, and a national public organization called Hartia-4, Soldatenko, received a grant of $424,000 to implement the project called "Elective Newspaper Supplements." The content is Victor Yushchenk's information support. The National Democratic Institute, which is headed by the famous Madeleine Albright, in addition to regular contacts with our Ukrainians, is recommended at seminars to closely observe events in Georgia because they have to undergo similar trials in Russia, and let's say they recommend building their electoral campaign on the ground of a more aggressive strategy. And another interesting example. The Central Office of NDI has requested its Ukrainian representative to stop training for members of the Social Party and to meet with Alexander Moroz to find out, I quote: "the reasons for which he supported the Presidential majority during the vote last time of the draft polytreform and allowed the publication in the newspaper "The Village News" of anti-Semitic material." I want to give you examples of how the "Democratic Society Development" program is funded through the International Republican Institute: 1994-1997: 3.4 million dollars, 1997-2000: 2.7 million, 2000-2002: 1.4, 2002-2004: 4 million. Or a seminar for the assets of our Ukraine, butt and socialists, and it started a year before the presidential elections. For example, the first and second eleventh of 2003 -- in Chernigov, the eighth and ninth eleventh -- in Reveny, 22-23 -- in Lugansk, in Hmelnicki, the fourth and seventh twelfth, in Kharkiv, the sixth and seventh twelfths in Hmelnick, where the main attention was given to the development of events in Ukraine under the Georgian script. December 11-12, 2003 -- in Ivano-Frankivsky and so on. The International Republican Institute, through its representatives, observed additional elections to the Supreme Council and the District Council in Donetsk, and the Institute’s officials were interested in the conduct of parties and people who had been trained in order to improve their teaching methods. And another example. On February 7, 2004, this year, in Berlin, Conrad Adenauer's fund taught the preparation and conduct of presidential elections in Ukraine to head the headquarters of Viktor Yushchenk. Dnipropetrovski, Zaporziski, Odessky, Poltavaski, Kirovogradski and Hersonski. I could give many more examples. Second direction. This is a work with representatives of local self - government authorities, which is allegedly designed to develop the autonomy of the areas and to form a strong regional elite. In practice, this leads to a weakening of their leadership from the center. To this end, the Ukrainian representation uses the experience of European Institute of Democracy specialists to train the leaders of local self-government but not all of those who are supporters of the Yushchenka Block and perhaps a wave of separatism by accident, and I believe that the refusal to implement the decisions of the central authorities and the creation of non-constitutional authorities began, above all, in the western areas of Ukraine. [[Poland]] The third direction. Development of controlled media to carry out information actions by collecting information on the problem sides of Ukrainian society. The materials collected are being implemented through representatives of the right opposition to appeal to the international community, to international structures for the purpose of exerting pressure on power, and to form a positive image of the right opposition forces. Since early 2003, the U.S. Embassy in Ukraine has been implementing the $300,000 Development of Ukrainian Media programme. The cable networks of Kiev are actually monopolized by the cable will company, the actual owner of this cable company. There's an American citizen, and Kiev cable networks have started broadcasting MBM media-holding programs, and they include 5 channels and Express Information, which belong to our country, Poroshenko. And finally, the fourth direction. This is creating new and strengthening existing Ukrainian civil and non-governmental organizations in social processes that should stimulate the initiative below under the flag of civil society. In this regard, attention should be paid to national MPs ’ efforts to implement in our country, the so - called nonviolent struggle for reform, which is ideologist U.S. professor. This tactic has already been applied in Yugoslavia and Georgia. For example, in Yugoslavia, a crowd of students were generously watering their performances with a "patriotic-democratic sauce" called "resistance" and at the first stages of their baptism from politics, and when they started with non-violent tactics, the rebels ended up with a storm and a burning parliament, a rupture of a telecenter, shooting at the backs of police officers. After this popular movement brought down the Milosevic regime and contributed to the disappearance of Yugoslavia from the map of Europe, the resistance went down just as quickly as it did. However, his experience was found to be needed in the elections in Georgia, when, literally, there was also a student movement called "Cmara", which copied symbols, slogans and methods of resistors to each other. We also have a resistance-farm clone in Ukraine, which is a season, which is also based on students, and their goal, according to their manifesto, is to eliminate the non-violent course of the modern regime in Ukraine. So we can conclude: non-state public organizations that are financed and controlled from abroad are undeniable evidence of the presence of foreign organizations, foreign people, I can call many such persons, and foreign funds in Ukrainian politics. And I'd like to emphasize, quote another quote for the discharge. Rostislav Hotin, editor of the Ukrainian service of the BBC, said, by the way, that "there was so much effort and investment in Ukrainian journalism that it was difficult to find a journalist who wouldn't visit a seminar with a grant." I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers on urgent development and introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a law on the activities of non-State public organizations funded from abroad. I would ask the head of the Supreme Council to send a request to the United States Congress to send papers, and there will be investigations into these facts, which Ron Paul has just stated, which would indicate that, let's say, Victor Yashchenk's campaign in our country is financed. And finally, I ask this statement to be considered a parliamentary request to the Ukrainian Security Service, to all the law enforcement agencies for the fact that there is a direct interference in our internal affairs, because elections are internal matters of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u17	Three minutes, please log in. What questions? This is a statement from the factions, five factions passed on the right to speak to the speakers. We don't ask questions. Three minutes, please, on the sign-up table of the people's deputies, Rephat Chubarov, please, the "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u18	I ask you to give the word to my colleague Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u19	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have listened with great interest to another report by the Head of the Commission, to whom I belong. It's been really interesting, although it's all written under the copier here, the Head of the Commission is always imitating that someone doesn't want to work there. I'd like to tell you, Mr. Mishur, you just handed us this card yesterday, handed out when your report was ready. I'm a deputy and I haven't been able to make it in 12 hours, and on whose behalf did you say it was? I don't know. And secondly, I wanted you to say, you had one of the seminars in Ivano-Frankivsky in '97, you remember that, please tell me, who paid you for this seminar? Deirdep or the CIA? And the last question I want.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u21	Yes. Please, Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u22	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to speak to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you, this Commission, which was created and regulated by the Committee, has a full list of the Commissions that work as well as this Commission. I think it would be necessary for the Supreme Council to create commissions, yet to require the work and accountability of these Commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u23	Yes. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u25	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction, the honourable colleagues, the honourable voters, the Communist faction, make the following offer. After hearing a thorough report by Valeri Dmitrovitch on the protection of Ukraine's national interests against the involvement of the United States in the elections, I propose, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to print this report in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to make an urgent consideration of the proposal for a draft decree made by the People's Deputy of Gmir on the establishment of a special commission and on the investigation of the financing of one of the Presidents of Ukraine's election by the United States of America. And the third. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to hear information, if it is the case, on the implementation of the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was adopted regarding the withdrawal of our military personnel from Iraq and the President's commission to comply with this Supreme Council order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u28	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Mikola Karnauhu.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u29	Mikola Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear voters, the point is that the U.S. International Development Agency is helping the entire world to develop democratic processes. It's a government structure. Our Parliamentary internships are under way. There is a programme to promote the Ukrainian Parliament. Therefore, respectable Communists, do not distract people. You look at Putin, look at Chernomirdin, who are demonstratively interfering. And the socialists are defending the interests of Ukraine and our people. So for freedom of speech, we don't mind so much the experience of progressive democratic countries. And in order to remove this regime with you, we will continue to develop democratic processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u31	Time's up. Dear colleagues, this is a performance, please. Please, calm down. Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? They didn't call anyone's last name. Please, calm down. There is no record in the Rules, honourable national deputies, there is only the name of the national MP when they are mentioned. Regarding the suggestions that have just been made. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. It was Valeria Mishura, 15 minutes, five factions were allowed to do this. It's about printing this speech. According to fractional quotas, I don't think it's a problem to do that if there are fractional quotas. It's about the commission. I think if this motion for a ruling is, if we look at it, we'll bring it to the Supreme. Yeah, well, they're telling me that we listened and didn't support this project. And if he is, the Supreme Council will consider it. With regard to the decision to withdraw troops from Iraq, it contains, as I recall, not the President’s mandate, but the request to the President and the proposal, because the Supreme Council cannot delegate to the head of state. Dear colleagues, let's stick to what's written, well, your words are one thing, and the document we've accepted is another thing. Therefore, the Supreme Council has expressed its will, now the question for the President of Ukraine. Involved. From the suggestions made in the presentations by authorized representatives from MPs and factions, I ask you to prepare appropriate assignments to the central executive authorities and other state institutions. Dear fellow Members, we are moving on to a schedule of meetings. A draft Law on the Service of External Intelligence, number 6349, is being announced for consideration. And here is Bill 6251, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the intelligence bodies]] Perhaps the honourable colleagues, if the committee doesn't object, we will proceed in such a way that we will make a report on two of these bills and then we will discuss them together. Is there no objection? Well, the reporters are different, I understand. So, your honorary colleagues, we have two rapporteurs: the head of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, Sinyaski Oleg Grigorovich, and the deputy head of the Security Service, Drizcjan Igor Vasilovich, and then the committee head's report. Therefore, I invite the head of the External Intelligence Service of the Ukraine of Blue Age Oleg Grigorovich to speak. By procedure, please sign in. Three minutes in a row. One minute, Oleg Grigorovich, wait. Three minutes, please. Eugene Gornik, faction of our Ukraine, then Sergey Droguncs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, indeed, the question of the foreign policy of representing our state in the outer arena is a matter of both the active question and the change of the President's Constitution. And the President has the right to make proposals, including legislative proposals, to reorganize appropriate services, and this may be necessary. But the question is that the President will change after December 26th. And perhaps the concept proposed by President Kuchma will not suit his successor. As a result, I think it would be logical to refer these questions to the debate after the President's election. So I propose that they be removed from today’s consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, if we follow that logic, let's stop living in Ukraine right now and wait for the new President. And the concept is needed by Ukraine, not by someone who's going to be president of Ukraine. And we, Parliament, must make a balanced decision, not to the President, but to Ukraine, in the interests of Ukraine. I think it was just a question that I asked her to take off. This is the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Sergey Doroguntsov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u34	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I support your position and I ask that you pass the word to Myronek Viktor Andriyovich, my faction colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u35	Victor Mironenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, question: The President of Ukraine has instructed the President of the Ukrainian Security Service to report this question. Why does the Vice-President report? This is not a serious consideration of such an important issue. Please give a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, for this reason, is the appeal of the Security Service that, under the circumstances, the head of the Security Service cannot be present in the consideration of the matter. There's an appropriate letter, I gave it to you, this letter. You'll make another decision, let's make another decision. Please, Mikola Karnauh. I ask the Secretariat to bring here a letter from the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u38	Thank you. I'd like a word with Stepan Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u39	Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u40	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I would like to draw the attention of all the national MPs to what we are being asked to do today to legitimize the event that has already taken place: The Foreign Intelligence Service, in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, has already been created by the President. Her task was defined by the President, and now we're going to try to legitimize the violation of legislation, including the Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine. It seems to me that if we let not the head of the Ukrainian Security Service report, but his deputy, even the first one, do it wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u41	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I would like to ask respectable colleagues when they speak of a violation of the Constitution, calling it an article that was violated by the Supreme Council. I say there is no violation of the article, the Supreme Council must adopt the law, and it will consider it. Dear colleagues, this report is proposed. Dear people's deputies, me. Dear National Deputies! Honorable fellow workers! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you what I'm ignoring the opinion of the National Deputies. I'd like to ask you, distinguished national deputies. What did I ignore? Ladies and gentlemen, you're not giving me a chance to finish my opinion. I told you, that's your opinion. I'll put it to a vote. You're not giving me a chance to say. And I'd like, dear colleagues, let's be mutually tolerant. Please. I gave you no reason to accuse me of being unobjective, and I would ask you to be mutually tolerant, even of these very people that I respect, and not to pressure me. I'll read it to you, and you'll make your decision. I received a letter on October 12. The President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws concerning intelligence agencies. Registration number 6251. Determined to be immediate. The rapporteur for the bill was appointed the head of the Ukrainian Security Service Smeshko Igor Petrovich. Well, one minute! Come on, let's read it! What kind of people are you, I can't understand?Oh, my God! You don't even say a word! I'll read on, if you don't mind. "In connection with the official workload of the head of the Security Service, we request your approval to present this bill during the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council as deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service Drizcjan Igor Vasilovic, responsible for ensuring interaction with the Supreme Council of Ukraine." In this connection, the deputy head of the Sheremet Security Service signed. Well, listen! Well, I'll put it to a vote. Well, please! Well, what are you doing?Oh, my I put it to a vote: who, in order to withdraw the bill, to postpone the consideration of Bills 6349, 6251, please make a determination. [[11:11:38]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 67, "Ukrainian Regions" - 10, Communists - 57, SDPU - 2, National Agrarian - 2, SPI - 16, Unit Ukraine - 5, Block Timoshenko - 18, Alliance - 0, Center - 13, Democratic Initiatives, Trudova Ukraine - Zero, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 3, Postfraction - 10. That's how. Dear colleagues, I'll put you to the vote again just to calm you down. Who's to go back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[11:12:37]] For 266 Who for what to transfer, postpone Bills 6349, 6251. Well, why are you trying to control me? I know the rules, don't shout, please. It's like something happened to you. Yes. [[11:13:00]] For 304 Decision taken. I ask the secretary to prepare appropriate statements so that they are the main rapporteurs on this issue. The bill on the well-being of the population, the reporter, the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Alohin Volodymyr Ilych, is being announced. Yes. Now we're going to see, one minute, wait, the co-reporter is going to be the Empty Shadow of Valery Pavlovich. Yes, President Viktor Yanukovic's report says that Semchuk Grigory Mihajlovich will be the reporter. He didn't get any other information. Where's Gregory Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u42	Well, I'm asking, what are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u43	Yes, what will we bear with regard to this issue too? I put it to a vote: who's in charge of calmly, because no question is said, let's define from another. Who's in charge of moving the matter forward, registration number 5666 before the hospital returns to the head of the Committee, please vote. [[11:14:30.]] For-61 The decision is not taken, so we're going to go to the bill, and we're going to have this five-minute report, three-minute answers, five-and-three co-reports, 15-minute discussion and decision-making. No objections? I won't. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u44	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the area of well - being of the populace, such as the important component of municipal housing, covers such directions as the street road network, green farming and outdoor lighting, sanitary cleaning of cities, villages, and villages of Ukraine. In fact, this is the card of any inhabited site. Regrettably, the condition of large numbers of objects today does not satisfy the population or the authority of all levels. To a large extent, this situation is due to the absence of clearly defined legal and organizational principles for the activities of executive authorities and local governments of legal and natural persons in the sphere of the well - being of cities, villages and villages of Ukraine. Today, the rules in force are laid down in various legislative acts and cover a small circle of issues of good fortune. Such a situation often breeds legal conflicts, misunderstandings between owners and users, and their rights and responsibilities are not legally defined. Local self - government authorities and government authorities that manage and regulate the well - being of the population because of the lack of a single legislative act do not have the capacity to effectively exercise their powers and responsibilities to maintain the infrastructure of the populace. Similarly, businesses and organizations working in the field are unable to ensure that the facilities function in a reliable manner and provide services of good quality. Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s bill on the welfare of population items consists of 9 chapters and 42 articles. It provides a comprehensive approach to solving the problems of the well-being of the populace that I have just talked about. In particular, the General Positions set out the terminology and scope of the law. Section 2 sets out the basic principles of governance in the area of well - being of the population and the authorization of executive authorities of all levels, the establishment of legislative rules for the provision of state-owned governance and the regulation of the well - being of the population, the identification of subjects and objects in the sphere of well - being, rights and responsibilities of citizens, businesses and organizations. The third chapter, which is the main part of the bill, deals with the general issues of the organization of the well-being of the population. Separated issues include approaches to the well - being of residential and public buildings, business territories, institutions, and organizations of instigating territories, and parts. The rules for performing works in general use areas related to repairs, the removal of accidents, the destruction of areas, the dismantling of buildings, and so forth are regulated. The individual articles set out requirements, legal and organizational approaches, the direction of maintaining green plantings and the road network, the lighting of public areas and sanitation. Special sections set out questions of standardization, regulation in the area of well - being of the population. The funding of the specified area with the definition of appropriate mechanisms and sources provides for control and responsibility for violations of legislation in the area of the well - being of the population. With the adoption of this law, it will be possible to regulate social relations in the specified sphere and to create legal, economic and organizational principles for the activities of executives and local self-government bodies, to define a system of state regulation in the sphere of good governance of the population, to standardize it and to regulate it, and to be responsible for violations of legislation. The task of the law is to develop mechanisms to ensure a full-fledged environment, to ensure a single policy for the well-being of Ukraine's populated areas, to establish at the legislative level a foundation for the continuous development of enterprises engaged in the development and maintenance of the road network, external lighting networks, green farming, and to improve the health status of the population. The draft Ukrainian law was first developed. It sets out, inter alia, the main purpose of the system and principles of well - being of the population, the system of state regulation in the sphere of well - being, subjects and objects of the sphere, the exercise of control in this area, its standardisation and regulation, the financial security of the well - being of the population, Ukraine’s participation in international cooperation on the welfare of the population, and its responsibility for violating the rule of law in the sphere of well - being. The law provides for the creation of a level playing field for enterprises of all forms of property in the area of well-being, after the adoption of the law, a number of valid legal instruments will be developed and revised for the development, repair and maintenance of green planting sites, street and outdoor lighting networks, and sanitary cleaning of public areas. The main social impact of the adoption and implementation of the Ukrainian Welfare Act will be the creation of the right conditions for the creation of a fully-fledged human environment, the balancing of socio-economic development of settlements and surrounding areas, the improvement of sanitary and economic conditions of the population. Dear National Deputies! Please support the Government’s draft Law on the Supremacy of Human Settlements.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. On the board is the name of the national deputies who are registered. Gabrieluk Ivan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u46	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I ask you to give the word to Gunnery Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u47	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u48	Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I don't have as many questions as you do. Your function does not include commenting on the statements made by the deputies, especially since a loving MP is entitled to his opinion and, more importantly, that this proposal I have made has been confirmed by an appropriate vote. So I ask you to act in accordance with the Rules. And as for the reporter, questions. After all, you've introduced a law that is more framework, which reflects the positions that are already reflected in the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations, in the corresponding standards. In this bill, what are the mechanisms for its implementation, what is the responsibility of officials, what terms? Will he act without it at all? That's my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. If you're taking a bill, the Goodwill Act is a whole set of socio-economic and environmental measures taking place in the area of the population. And that's why the law provides for all of these measures regarding the responsibility and responsibility of enterprises, organizations for the well-being of population centres, that's the whole complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u50	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u51	Fucking Communist faction. Please give the word to Omelyan Nikonovich Parubka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u52	Omelian Pussy. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u53	Vladimir Illich, I read this law carefully because I was born in a village and live in a village. When there was an ex - cologne, the entire infrastructure was on the shoulders of the colporteurs. When with the collapse came owners living in the ocean. It is not possible for weeds to cut even today in the village. The road, even some kind of street lighting. All of this is on the shoulders of rural councils. Clubs were handed over to the village councils, kindergartens were handed over, ambulances, schools were handed over. They have zero in their budget. They don't have a penny left. And as you drive through our Ukrainian villages, and when you look at Ukraine as a flower, it has been spraying weeds, shrubs, and hors d’oeuvres today. But the law does not say that the State is responsible. Because there are people in the village who live in cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u54	Thank you, Omelyan Nikonovich, for the specific question. And if you just take chapter eight and say it. Responsibility for violations of legislation in the area of well-being of the population. And responsibility attracts people who are guilty of disobeying public standards, rules in design, construction, exploitation, non-compliance with the environmental and sanitary requirements established by legislation during well-being. And of course there's funding. Both government funding is provided, and from local governments, and from local budgets, and from funds and businesses, and from organizations, if this is not in conflict with legislation, these issues are now foreseen. To that end, the law is passed to ensure that this is done in all parts of Ukraine, whether it is a city or a village or a village.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u55	Have a seat, Volodymyr Illihu, time's up. Thank you. Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications did not review once the problems of the development of the sphere and the well - being of the population. I would like to thank you and remind you that you and I have adopted a small city development programme, we have adopted a national programme for housing and utility reform, and today this law is going forward in the development plan and in the implementation of the housing and utility reform programme. There are also, by chance, draft laws along with the new Housing Codex. I can tell you that at the meeting of the working group, we have finalized the new Housing Code and will submit it to the Supreme Council as soon as possible. This law creates an appropriate legislative framework for the well-being of the populace, is considered an urgent task today, and the solution of which is specifically addressed in this law. In particular, this applies to the settlement of issues in the area of good-naturedness in market relations, the holding of good-natured conduct in line with international standards. The bill's job is to put in place mechanisms to ensure that a full life mechanism is formed. The adoption of this law will not only make it possible to determine the legal, economic, social and organisational principles of the well-being of the populace, but will also make it necessary to develop a number of new ones in the first place and to review a number of valid legal and regulatory instruments that will determine the order of the creation and further development of urban green plantation systems, street road network, outdoor lighting, general use and recreation, as well as cemeteries, and to provide sanitation for the areas of the populace. At its meeting on October 20, the committee considered the draft bill, and I believe that it can be adopted in this regard. I can also say that some points need to be clarified and drafted. In particular, it is necessary to specify the mandate of self-organizational organs in the area of well-being, and it is considered appropriate to participate in the organization of the annual all-U.S. competition as the best place for the population, in addition to the holding of the comongosp, other executive authorities and local self-government. We ask you to support this bill in the first reading. And the committee will be working on it and will forward it to the Supreme Council as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u57	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Questions? Please sign up if there is. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u58	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear Valery Pavlovich! I agree with you about the need to adopt this bill, and I like these principles, which are the building blocks in article four. But there's a principle of priority for the general use of the area of the site before its other use. Please tell me from this principle how to understand that Ukrainian citizens living in Kiev are literally being bullied by the obstruction of Lutheran Street, Bank. Not by the partition that's going on right now, it actually duplicates the partition that's being built. During the time of the CPD, there was a free pass on Banking Street. Now we've got one fence, another fence, people can't get through. Many times they paid attention. I'm addressing you as the head of the committee: help me do something, understand Leonid Danilovich, so that not only does he take all the streets, but he let people walk these streets. This is what they used to do in these streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u59	Can I answer that? I understand that, don't I? I take this matter very seriously. We have a law on local councils and local self - government. Everything that relates to the activity, the development of a city, is provided by the city council. the city of Kiev. As far as Bank Street is concerned, I believe that a proper request can be made to the Administration, to the City Head, and will make the appropriate decision to unlock Banking Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u60	Yes, Vladimir Yeshchenko, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u61	Fucking Communist faction. I fully support the question of Omelyan Nikonovich Parubek to the first deputy head of the State Committee on Rural Affairs and Rural Development. I am approached by the voters of the village of Stepanka in the Cherka district. the area on the condition of roads used by the organizations for the carriage of stones from careers. And they're already going to all the facilities, but by now these roads haven't been repaired. There are answers from the Minister of Transport and so on. This law should put a dot on the matter. And how does the law that has been passed in small cities have to solve these problems in order for the village councils not to be approached by the local councils on matters that need to be resolved at the level of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u62	I'll answer your question. And I want to say the next thing. It's too early to put a dot on us because we've adopted a state-wide programme for the development of small cities in Ukraine and also a programme for the reform of the LHC. And now the draft budget we've been given doesn't take into account any of our committee's proposals, where your factions are represented. So zero is going to be funding. Then the point will be when we provide you with stable funding and legislative acts, and those programs that we take in the Supreme Council. Why did we accept these programs, which do not have prices today? Unfortunately, there isn't. And so on. Now another question has arisen: Again, 80 percent of the funding for this year is from that legislation. For the development and construction of roads and their operation, 80. But you and I have decided on the granting of loans. So just so you know, for the loans we agreed on, you have to pay about a billion dollars next year for paying off interest on loans. So financing for road repair and maintenance, if we take it that way, Our budget bill, we're going to have minus one billion. Therefore, there should be only one hundred percent. And we're going to protect that position. Then there'll be a dot. So far, it's too early.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u63	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Have a seat, please. Let's see if you can get a list of who signed up. 15 minutes. Please, Novak. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u64	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I would like to point out immediately that the bill is long overdue. It is aimed at regulating social relations in the area of well-being and aims to create legal, economic, social and organizational principles of activity in this area. This issue has long had to be addressed in a single national direction, to determine the main goal, the system and principles of the well-being of the populace, to create a single system of government regulation in the sphere of the well-being of our cities and villages. You and I know exactly what our population is like. More than half of the electorate's appeal to us national MPs is from these very questions. People are writing about the lawlessness that exists in places, about the callousness of officials, about the fact that, on the simple issues involved in urban and rural well - being, the formation that is conducive to human activity, the protection of the environment, they cannot achieve justice. Because I think that the adoption of this law would have a positive impact on the state of affairs in places and in Ukrainian society as a whole. But here I would like to raise, in my opinion, an extremely important problem. There are questions that are directly related to the well - being, but what authorities in places are simply not able to solve, and that is not the case. What he doesn't want is because he can't physically. Here, self - government authorities need the help of the State. I'd like to give an example at the district center of Hmelnicka. It is necessary to give due consideration to the city council, the head of the city of Pristi Mikoli Ivanovich, that in these difficult times for the state they make everything possible and impossible for the district center of appearance to be clean, tidy, so that all the vital structures and services are functioning here. And it's a pleasure that the city doesn't go with its hand stretched out to the state execution, and all of these problems are solved at their own expense. But there's one problem in which hopers are really hoping to help the state, is to provide a 250-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-city water. The existing water supply does not provide sufficient supplies for the city. Today more than 100 million bracelets are needed to reconstruct it. This problem alone cannot be solved; it needs a state-wide programme, because the State needs help with water supply issues not only for Hmelnick, but for virtually all cities in Ukraine. What kind of well - being can we speak of without water? I think these issues should be a priority in the near future for the Cabinet of Ministers, for the state as a whole. I propose to vote in favour of this project. Its adoption will be followed by the adoption of a single state policy in the sphere of the well - being of Ukraine’s populace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u65	Please, Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u66	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. The honourable national MPs, certainly the adoption of this bill, which defines the legal, economic, social and organizational principles with the well-being of the populace, aimed at ensuring an enabling environment for human activity, right at the time and it needs to be adopted in the first reading, I see no obstacles and here in the questions I have tried to ask and asked the Special Committee to foresee that we can ensure the implementation of the existing legislative acts and in this Act on this principle, which is provided for in Article 4, the principles of well-being, the first, the first principle is legality, and the second, the priority of the general use of the territory before the actions of any official we have put first place. Because it has something to do with the well - being. Now we see that individual managers, individual enterprises and institutions are putting together or something, and that also applies to the well-being, because that depends on the normal lives of people. Both recreational and conservation functions performed by the population function, settlements in these cities. I'm talking about traffic lights that, for example, stand in front of the Cabinet of Ministers and when there's one car coming out of there for an hour, and these lights are on. Thank God the Supreme Council is now off-limits. I asked about stopping the blockage of the streets and Lutheran and Banking and opening them up for movement. That's not what it means to be on Chrystec at the time of the revolution. These are the forced actions of the people who responded to the way the authorities acted. I'd like to make a note before this bill. It says that it's going to come into force right now, but it's going to be clear here that there's going to be an increase in the spending part of the budget, because when it's accepted, it's obvious that it's going to have an impact on budget formation. Therefore, the time for adoption of the bill is likely to be only 1 January 2006. It's also obvious. I have specific comments to him, but I'll put them in order. I will vote in favour of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u67	The word has the national deputy Yavorowski, the faction "Our Ukraine", to prepare for Orzhachowski instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u68	Vladimir Yavorowski. Respectable law makers and respectable voters. This bill, more specifically the idea that he has in mind, is very kind to my heart and very kind to my mind. I would like to stress what my colleagues who spoke here did not touch, and I think even those who would come after me. What do I mean? And I would like millions of our voters to know about it. The thing is that we have Ukrainians, in the Ukrainian nation, there is still a unique opportunity not to lose face. We should tell ourselves that no one needs us faceless in this world, faceless spiritually, faceless materially, faceless architecturally. That's what I mean. I'm sure if you look at our Ukraine, look at the diversity that we have today with their spiritual structure, their architecture, and their geographical location. But walk only from somewhere in Western Ukraine through my same historical chorus, where all the historical paths between Europe and Asia were once crossed. Which is worth, let's say, the same west as our Lviv, which is in the festival of architecture to the world and UNESCO, including, say, our Central Ukraine with Kiev, with its amazing streets, the same Andrivian embroidery, or whatever the Chernigus are worth with its amazing cathedrals, or we go on what ours is worth. Our spiritual highest rostrum is the same Kanov with the body of Shevchenk, with the ideas of Shevchenk, which is worth the specification of our Odessa or the same Berdian or Melitopolis on Donetsk? We have, indeed, a unique, wonderful legacy for which this law is designed. And it's very important that I want to, and I'm going to make amendments to this law, we have to write down, our laws are often flawed by what we forget about our national face. It is in this bill that we must make sure that the moment that we must preserve all of this is ours, Ukrainian. Remember who was driving, say, from Poland, you're crossing this border, our Ukrainian villages are very Polish-like. And then you're going, and there's a completely different style. That's all we have to keep. And the last half-minutes, I didn't finish then. Dear colleagues, I think we have a new faction here called the Communist Regions United, and what no one in the world wants to do is your problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u69	The word has the national deputy of Orzhachovsky, a faction of Communists, to prepare the miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u70	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head, MPs! I, like the Communist faction, support the government's draft law on the well-being of the population. It should systematize previous experience in the field, bring to the single legislative document existing positions, conditions of competition, regulations. The development of full - time mechanisms and the provision of a single policy in the field of well - being will adorn villages, villages, and cities. The absence of law, as well as the cost of its implementation, creates a sense of discomfort for the population. It is worth mentioning the Soviet times when not only did we love demonstrations but we also enjoyed working on Saturdays during regional sanitary days. At the time, there was a clear system, sufficient funds, and the boards needed to implement and use only the available financial resources. I find it appropriate to supplement article 12 with a content that will strengthen the administrative impact on violators by counseling regarding legal and physical persons. Article 20, which is specifically responsible for the performance of work, terms, and mechanisms, should be clearly stated. Otherwise, there is a paradox when administrations, with no funds, make decisions, oblige, declare the moons in good spirits, in order to make them go even to the decisions of the laws. The village is known to have destroyed the salt communities. Hence, financial support, whether self - sufficient or subsidized, will not work without this article 24 of the Law. Officials are offering us an opportunity to use the homes of fellow houseowners when we are privatized by citizens. What, though, if society is not created, the house of balance is not taken off, and the foundations are nightly? Article 26 of the project provides for the responsibility of the owner of the dwelling or user for the welfare of his dwelling area from the roadside to the fence. Who's going to write the protocols: district officials, utility workers, because the states on the boards are miserable. Article 30 will not guarantee clear treatment of solid household waste until municipal enterprises have techniques, solid waste ranges. The bill does not refer to the numbering of houses, street names, alleys, businesses, and entrance ceilings to the sphere of its influence. And this is the face of the community. It is a guarantee of quality service for people by liaisons, firefighters, ambulances, and so forth. Unforeseen responsibility for the loss of technical documentation of built objects, procedures for its restoration. In support of the "Populated Point of Best Design" competition, I can't understand what would be the benefit of an inspection with the well-being of the population, which of the legal powers of the public inspectors? Are there not enough committees on the boards of MPs, home and street committees? And I want to talk to the previous speaker, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u71	The word has been given to the national deputy of Gojornik, the faction of "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u72	Deputies! Dear voters! I am very happy for my countryman, Gregory Mikhailovich Samchuk, in connection with the award of his State Communion Award, as opposed to other winners. This is a very rare case among residential workers, to whom we tend to have only claims, not taking into account all the complexity of their services. So I speak honestly and without irony. But on the other hand, the title of the bill and the state of well-being of our population points to the fact that this prize is rather an advance for that service and the real well-being is still ahead. As far as the bill is concerned. In the last 10 years, the attachment to genes has been virtually disrupted. Both geneplans, Kyiv and most of Ukraine’s cities, have been virtually destroyed. And that's what my colleagues were talking about. Unfortunately, I do not see this link in the proposed bill. And this also affects the well - being of inhabited villages and villages. We talk a lot about flood damage and other natural disasters, but we're not talking about construction now without all kinds of genes in places where floods are potentially dangerous. The framework nature of the law without specific responsibility, without financial security, I don't think it's possible to actually implement it, and that's what I'm talking about by asking the question of the report. It certainly benefits from the bill that it systematizes many of the regulations that are now in the standards, in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and other departments. And that's helpful. But on the other hand, the inadequacy, the lack of mechanisms for implementation, the mechanisms for financing, the mechanisms for monitoring its implementation, makes the bill ineffective. Because of this, my proposal will be to accept it in the first reading and to take into account the comments of MPs and on the road in the villages, and to rebuild not only the President's Administration, but also the CTC, and to take priority, is now the presidential election, because if you hear one of the candidates for the President, then, God forbid, if he becomes President, we will most likely engage in the well-being of different zones with you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, or the well-being of the Independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u73	So it's better if I didn't get it? Yes, honourable national MPs, discussing the bill. Well, he didn't say his last name, Mr. Honorable Colleagues. Well, please! Now. Dear colleagues, consider the bill on the well-being of the populace. Ladies and gentlemen, I was told that the name of the national deputy was not called. Don't scream, please! Don't scream! The bill on the well-being of the populace has been completed. What? He didn't call his last name. It's only got a last name. Well, we'll vote now, then you'll say. We're going to vote now. Well, calm down, please, please, sit down. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Let us change the Rules that when a faction is mentioned, it is necessary to give the word. Let's change. Well, please! Please calm down. Dear colleagues, discussion and consideration of the bill on the well - being of the people’s posts have been completed. The committee proposes to adopt this document as a basis. No other warnings? Then I ask the national deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Goodwill of Human Settlements. Registration number 5666. Please vote on the basis. [[11:49:40]] For 324 Document accepted as a base. Yes, please, Simonenko's replica microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u74	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters! The modern election campaign is accompanied by the exacerbation and oppression of anti-communist hysteria, which is accompanied by the desire of modern nationalists to take power at all costs in Ukraine. It's not an accident. I'll be right back. In February 18th, their predecessors of modern nationalists made a deal with Germany and sold virtually Ukraine, which was occupied, resulting in the killing of tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens. In the 19th year, their predecessors made a deal with Poland, France, England, and as a result, Ukraine was occupied. Modern nationalist and nascent policies have led to the fact that, as in Romania, Ukraine is implementing a project to capture power or elect a president who will be an obedient puppet in the hands of the United States. That is why today all the channels that we would call nationalists have thus solved the violent anticommunist hysteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u75	The draft Law on the Universal Program "Electronic Ukraine" for 2005-2012 is submitted for consideration. Registration number 5414. Such rules of procedure are proposed, fellow believers. The interviewer, up to three minutes, answers to questions, up to three minutes, for co-reporting and answers to questions -- 3 minutes, discussion and decision-making -- here's 10 minutes, let's just say 12 minutes. No warning? Dear National Deputies! According to the submission of the draft law in the Supreme Council, the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee, Yacenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, had the authority to present the bill to the First Deputy Minister, Lundishev Viktor Mikolayovich, since there is no such committee and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Do you have any objections? It won't? Please, Victor Mikolaiovich. Please. Prepare to report to Kruk Jury Borisovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are presented with the project of the General Government Program "Electronic Ukraine" for 2005-2012. The project continues the main orientations of the programmes "Electronic Europe" and "Electronic Europe +" but takes into account the specificities and characteristics of our country. We're looking at the electron program of Ukraine as an integral part of the national information program. The program includes three components: the creation of a regulatory framework, the introduction of new information and telecommunications technologies in all spheres of social life, and the development of a telecommunications system and a national Internet component network. What do we expect from the introduction of the program? In the first phase of 2005 - 2007, this is the introduction of new information and telecommunications technologies in the sphere of government, entrepreneurial activities, science, education, culture, health, environmental protection and other areas of social life. The development of the Internet will contribute to the wide access of individuals and legal entities, including scientific institutions and organizations, higher education institutions, archives, libraries, museums and other cultural institutions to information resources from national and global networks. Initial funding from the state budget for the first phase is 142 million dollars. During the second phase of 2008 - 2012, it is expected to create conditions for the granting of physical and legal defects to individuals with information services, including those requiring the identification of subjects. Raising the level of computer literacy of the broad population, creating a network of public computer centers, ensuring the introduction of electronic commerce through the use of electronic digital signatures, creating new jobs, and so forth. The real financing of phase two operations is 226.5 million dollars. The adoption of such a program will facilitate Ukraine’s accession to the European Union. I ask the people's deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question. Three minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! The Scientific and Experimental Authority notes that the design of the project programme does not fully meet the requirements of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes. And the goals are not sufficiently well-formed, and the documents do not give a clear idea of the final result of each task, both in time and in purpose. So, please tell me, after getting the conclusion that was given back in June, which prevented the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, in this case your ministry, from correcting these things and giving them in exchange for the hand-delivered ones, that is, working on the march, so that there would be no comments and taking the program right away would be better for us, MPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. As far as I know, this kind of work is done, if something isn't taken into account, then we're going to adjust it and then we're going to complete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u80	Please, Rodionov. Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u81	The Communist faction, Rodonov. Honorable Rapporteur! Tell me, what is the need to create a third system of information, given that there is a National Information Programme, there are regional information programmes that consume half a million bracelets a year? [[And about 7 million everything's coming together.]] You are now establishing a third structure for the same purposes, I stress, for the purpose of informing the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the President and Governmental Institutions. That's what you're planning 10 billion for next years. Can you explain what that means?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. I'm only going to answer by saying that the draft programme that I've announced here, it's going on with the main agendas, I said. "Electronic Europe" and "Electronic Europe Plus," i.e. additions to these two programmes, with clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u83	Please, Hiccup Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u84	Quickly, the Socialist faction of Ukraine. Dniproperty. I would like to say that it is really necessary to adopt this law, it is absolutely necessary. We all the time claim to be a European country, so today we all live in Europe, and we can't keep up with them. But I have a question for you. What were you guided by when you made up the exact date of implementation of this program? Is it another thought that comes out of five and seven years of age? Was this justified in any way? Isn't that too tight? Because you know that this area is developing very quickly today. If we're going to drag it into that term for seven years, we can find ourselves again, not in the front of Europe as a whole, but in the back of Europe as a whole. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. I think these are the computational deadlines for this program. If time floats in such a way that it is necessary to speed up and there will be adequate funding, surely we will speed it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, let's do it, if you don't mind, as follows. Let's finish this question, then call it a break. Please, from the Committee of Kruk Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The draft law on the State-wide programme “Electronic Ukraine” for 2005-2012, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, was considered by the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications in October of this year. The main objective of the bill, as has already been said, is to improve the public information settlement in the priority areas of Ukraine's socio-economic, scientific and technological and cultural development, and to introduce modern and forward-looking information and communication technologies. In the end, the standard of living of the population has improved. This funding bill has already been mentioned here. The funding of this programme is 368.5 million dollars, not provided for in the draft budget for 2005. The Committee is therefore of the view that funding should start from 2006. And by adopting this programme, we believe that changes should be made accordingly: not from 2005 to 2012, but from 2006 to 2012. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office concluded that comments could be taken as a basis. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information of the Supreme Council, with its comments, believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Our Committee requests support for this decision and adoption of this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u88	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. Any questions? Yes. Sign up then. Please explain. Three minutes. Carmazine. After him, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Yuri Borisovich, I always support you. Just explain it to me, please. Why can't we, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, And it would be more peaceful for the government, and simpler, and there are no norms in this program that would be so common, that have such great general and social significance. Once again, I stress that we already have a basic national information program. That's the first question. And the second. There's a Council for Information in the Supreme Council. Why did they not conclude on this bill of the Law? What do you think? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u90	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, it is all about the fact that, of course, the programmes, as has already been asked here, we seem to have programmes under this direction. When we discussed the issue on our committee, we came to the conclusion that such a bill was needed and needed on issues that I had been able to report briefly. Therefore, if you have specific proposals in this regard, we would like to take this as a basis. And I think that all that will be complemented by the MPs and our committee-level committees, I think we will take into account and make a normal good programme, which will ultimately bring what is absolutely necessary today, is indeed forward-looking information communications of technologies, that is, addressing those modern issues that are essential to our society today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u91	Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u92	Radios, Communist faction. Mr. Stanislaw Alexievich, I don't have any claims against you, but I'd like to say that Deputy Carmazin has correctly noted the fineness of this. And I have a question: how did the Main Committee on Electronics turn out to be the Committee on Rail Transport and Roads?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u93	Well, we don't have the Rail Transport Committee, I think you know what our committee is called, and I said that at the very beginning. Rail transport may be involved in some way, but the Committee is called - building, transport, housing and communications. And, by the way, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u94	Yes, thank you, Yuri Borisovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, shall we vote? Yes, Puzakov. Get ready for Carmazine. 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u95	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. It is said that he who has the information has the world. Therefore, the electronic computer information system, which included personal computers, graphic stations, graphs, printers and all of this, has been improved in all the leading enterprises of the former Soviet Union. At the moment, in the context of the so-called market, it is no longer a question of automating the work of individual designers, technicians, economists, accountants. Experience has shown that there is a need to integrate different systems into a single system that integrates the information system. Meeting the challenges of developing an electronic information system will facilitate the most effective way to manage many businesses and organizations. In addition, modern electronic computer technology and information technology will enable the accounting of finished products, material values and objective data-based marketing. I believe that this law was to be passed 10 years ago. Let me ask who will now be responsible for the destroyed or knee-deep enterprises that had this electronic system and are now looted. The walls are all alone from the buildings and buildings. They're even breaking down steel farms to get the metal out of there to get it in line. The unique equipment of these enterprises, some even in the manufacturer's packaging, was purchased and purchased at the price of scrap metal and sold and sold for fabled money abroad. In the Kirovograd region alone, there are up to 5-20 such enterprises. For example, the typewriter factory, "Segment", "Accustika", the WBI plant, the "Beautiful Star" plant, the Alexandrian autosamp, the Lightwater "Ethal", the famous "Puanson" and many others. I think that before adopting the State-wide programme "Electronic Ukraine ", it is necessary to create a commission of deputies who are ill for the fate of Ukraine and for its many-suffering 13 years prior to the desperation of the people to investigate and destroy businesses, mines, colchuses, neighbours and to bring the perpetrators, and they are even among the members of the Supreme Council, to criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u96	Please, Karmazin. Get ready for Radion's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The basis of the domestic legislative base in the field of information is the National Information Programme Act, which is a basic law, and also special laws that regulate relationships in certain activities that we have adopted here with you. And this is about electronic digital signatures, about electronic documents, electronic documentation, about the protection of information in automated systems, about payment systems, money transfers, the national depository system, and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities, and so on. Thus, a serious basis has already been created that tells us that we should approach very carefully the adoption of the Law of such a State-wide program as "Electronic Ukraine." I am particularly concerned that the full-scale implementation of the program for these years, by 2011, requires funding from all sources of $10 billion. It's a colossal cost. I looked at what measures are planned to do and what the cost is going to be: to provide Internet access, as a universal information communications service -- 9 million dollars, fast Internet scientists and students -- 21.7 million dollars. Dear government officials! Let's see where you put the money. And obviously, without a budget committee, we can't possibly consider such serious things without its conclusions. Not necessarily, but the law forbids it. I didn't see the budget committee's conclusions. Instead, I see what we have. Create an integrated information and analysis system of 6.6 million law enforcement agencies, year after year, 2007 and 2006, 2005 and so on. Same thing with the individual organs, the system of purchases, all over the place. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're confusing something a little bit. And I'd like things to be controlled more seriously. And that's why our Council, which is in the Supreme Council, did not give me much, much, much, much warning about information. I'm going to vote very carefully in favour, but I'm going to put forward proposals that just make it impossible to finance something like that, because they're very large costs that could make it zero on the way out. And I'd like to put in a little bit of money, and I'd like to get a lot of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u98	Please, Rodionov, the Communist faction, prepare the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u99	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I support previous speakers. They took note of the shortcomings of the programme very carefully. I also have comments, a few of them, they're only on 20 pages. These comments were made by the leading Ukrainian scientists who are part of the Coordinating Board with informationization. The essence of these comments, in order for the radio to be understood, is the following: the programme does not address the issue of the creation of an information society. And that's why. First. What is an information society? First of all, this is the main message, to ensure equal access to information and to the information resources of our citizens, and first of all to those citizens, as we say, who are vulnerable to the types of population that are not only able to buy a computer, they have not yet bought a piece of bread. That's the first one. With regard to this programme, I would like to explain. We already have a program. First and foremost, the national concept of informationization. It is a law on a national information programme. This is primarily a law on targeted programmes. I wish to emphasize that this programme does not meet any of these laws. And there are a lot of such proposals, and there are a lot of concrete examples for that. Well, I can say, like a chicken, you can take what's in the program, for example, by giving 15. In 2004, the draft program, government officials are not aware that the Telecommunications Act was passed on March 18, 2003. And in this program, Parliament is invited to expedite its consideration. I want to point out that the complete absence of the scientific component of this so - called program is impressive. What scientific developments of Ukrainian scientists will be the basis for the development of an information society. Maybe there are no such developments in Ukraine. Then there's another question. What foreign licenses and technologies should be purchased? How does the proposed program relate to other government programs? And by generalizing the conclusion, I mean. The result of these 20 pages of comments. As a result, the present draft programme does not correspond to the moment declared by the Government, the procedures established by valid legislation, the budgetary legislation. To reject this program as an insecure target. Offer. Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to introduce a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Conception.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u100	Please, school, timoshenko block faction. Solomonine, please release the rostrum. National Deputy Solomon, please release the rostrum. I'll say it again. I'm making a note of the National Deputy Solomon. If. School, please, sit down. School microphone, you stand by. If you have a claim, contact the Legal Committee and do not do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, of course, the epitome of a man who tried to stand on the rostrum, and now he's escaped from there, it says that he's very eager to speak, that's commendable, in principle, desire, but he needs to be able to implement -- that's all. I'd like to talk to you about the bill. You see, the questions raised in this law on the state programme. Ukraine is not just topical, it is supraactive. It's just that we have the most pressing, the most pressing issues, let's say softly, casually, we're going to use that term. And indeed, a draft bill without taking into account the opinion of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council, but without an expert evaluation of the relevant financial institutions, and it is necessary to actually include this cost, but these costs, I stress, are necessary. It's an expensive bill in the Ukrainian budget system, and without it, it's practically impossible. Therefore, only if a clearly defined mechanism for budgeting and this bill is laid down will it be possible to talk about whether to vote for it as a whole or not. And in general, I'd like to pay attention, and I'm happy that there are the right people. It is a pity that Stanislaw Vasilovich himself is not present, but this is the case. I would like to point out that, you know, electronic documents, these are primarily documents, and these documents should be extremely carefully written. So far there have been problems with the name, there are problems with writing Latin in Ukrainian cities, especially in the transcription of Russian, and besides Lviv, everyone else is writing in a foreign, so to speak, transcription. In the JPRS system so far, if you drive on a suitable car to the city of Kiev or Lviv, you'll be driving the streets of Lenin, the avenues of Peace, good thing it's not yet the streets of Stalin. Until now, Ukraine has not entered the world’s electronic document process. And this, I think, should be the main task of the relevant committee of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because without that, any internal development, any internal mechanisms for improving electronic documentation are, well, let's say, less understandable. So, first of all, communication is to make it easier for people to communicate with each other. And it's not just an internal Ukrainian problem, it's an external problem. So the issue of terms is extremely important. Well, I'm underlining that up until now, the Supreme Council has been using all the computers with the computerized Windows. I don't know whose problems this is, but first of all, I think they're our problems. We need to determine whether to eliminate the national language as a phenomenon or to treat it with respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u102	Question completed. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the first reading of the draft Law on the Universal Program "Electronic Ukraine" 2005-2012. Bill number 5414. Please vote. [[12:19:00]] For-138 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 4, "Ukrainian Regions" - 12, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 30, National Agrarian Party - 2, Socialists - 12, "One Ukraine" - 15, "Timoshenko Block - 8, "Soyuz" - 11, "Centre" - 8, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, "Trubic Ukraine" - 8, "NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 10, "Afterfraction" - 12. Perhaps for the rereading of the first reading? I'm betting on re-reading. Please vote. [[12:19:51]] For-173 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Let's move on to ratification issues. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the International Road Connection and the Protocol on Supplements to the Agreement is under consideration. First Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Lundishev Viktor Mikolayovich, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft documents are designed for the services of the Cabinet of Ministers. The provisions of the Agreement and the Protocols thereto define the conditions and arrangements for the transport of passengers and cargo between Ukraine and Slovakia and the transit through their territories. The implementation of the provisions of the Agreement and the Protocols does not require material costs. It was agreed without notice with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the State Customs, the State Tax Administration of Ukraine. The adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian law will provide a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State ties between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic. Development of co-operation in the field of road transport and tourism, business relations, and the provision of transport components in commercial contracts. Please ratify this Agreement and its protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u105	Thank you. No questions? Sign up then. Maybe we won't. Please, three minutes. Carmazine. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u106	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, please tell me a very brief question: First, why is the deputy here again today presenting a bill when we have made a decision, a parliament to report to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u107	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. This question was already explained by the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u108	So I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u109	Not to the question reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u110	Adam Ivanovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u111	Ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u112	Well, then, to you, indeed, yes. Adam Ivanovich, please don't interrupt, repeat to me. I would also like to ask: We are freeing ourselves on the basis of parity from the payment of the road congregation and taxes related to the use of transportation equipment. There's some paperwork, how long does it go from there, and how long does it go from there? What are we losing, we're going to win? What balance? What can you say at this time? I mean, a deal based on some data in recent years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u113	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for asking. I'm in the line of work, I'm afraid I don't have these numbers, I'm going to give them to you today literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u114	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u116	Myronek Victor's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u117	Please tell me the first question: Why has this bill not been ratified for so long? It's been nine years. Second question: Please explain whether the Slovak Republic has ratified this agreement?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u118	Thank you for asking. Yes, the Slovak Republic ratified and was signed on our side by the Minister of Transport and Communications’s Office, and the Slovak Government was also signed on February 24, 2003. So they've come up with this kind of reconciliation, so, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u119	Well, I guess the questions are back to those who apply for ratification, not to those who report. Please, Kuzmenko. You don't? Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u120	Radios, Communist faction. Tell me, please, about European countries, how many countries do we have left where there is a need for ratification of such agreements? Or is this just the data you posted?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u121	Well, unfortunately, I'm not going to tell you exactly how much is being prepared right now. But as long as they are needed, they will be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u122	Yes, thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich, sit down, please. From the committee’s profile, the head of the Committee in foreign affairs Stanislav Telisforovich, please, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on international car connections and the protocol for amending and supplementing the agreement. The proposed bill is aimed at legal settlement and development of relations between Ukraine, the Slovak Republic on international passenger and freight transport by buses and trucks, and also through the territory of both States. Ratification of the agreement will have a positive impact on development and cooperation between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic in the areas of road transport and tourism, expand the legal basis for bilateral trade and economic cooperation in part of its transport component. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, the Budget Committee and the Committee on European Integration support this bill. The committee also supported him and asked the Supreme Council to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u124	Thank you, Stanislav Telisforovich. Dear colleagues, shall we be determined? Oh, you can see there are arms. Please, Mironenko. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u125	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the bill. The purpose of the bill was to be supported, as the mutual exemption from taxes, fees and customs duties would contribute to increasing freight flows and improving normal human contact. However, the question arises whether this agreement will work and, if so, to what extent. We made agreements with Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania. Now they're in the western structure. As a result, agreements do not work. And the question is, is he going to work? And the second question is a very deep and important question. It is time, however, for us, the people of Ukraine, not a bunch of politicians sold for dollars to the United States of America, but for the people of Ukraine to clearly determine where we are going, with whom we must maintain the closest ties. Yes, the Slovak Republic must. But we are convinced that with third countries, the European Union will support certain policies and will provide certain, well at least, obstacles. It's happening. Any association, including the European Union, protects its positions and, in particular, the fishing industry of Estonia is also proposed to many other republics that have joined the European Union, and certain proposals have been made, and the Republics are suffering from accession to the European Union. We were told openly that we would not be admitted to the European Union. Maybe 30 or 50 years from now, maybe they'll take it, and probably never. And that's what the leaders talked about. And Romano Prodi made that clear. And we're all being led and led, and I'm sorry, but accepting the people as some sort of misunderstanding community. You can't fool people so much. We have good strategic partners, suppliers of raw materials, a huge market - Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. So why are we giving up these opportunities? Why are we not going to create a single economic space? I fear very much that with the election of the new President it will be complete. Ukraine will move away from the creation of the Single Economic Area, and this will bring severe hardships to both the economy and the people of Ukraine. I call upon all factions to support this agreement, especially since there are very few deputies. I'm going to Fatherland. Yesterday, you didn't support my bill concerning disabled former soldiers, and that's what the same people need.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u126	Victor Andryovich, we don't have Fatherland. I don't know who you're talking to. Please, nine more minutes. Carmazine. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u127	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I would like to draw your attention first of all to the fact that the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration, in its letter, proposed to return the bill to the Cabinet of Ministers, paying attention to the alleged technical and legal negligence, the agreement signed with the wording "for the government of Ukraine", the constitutional title of the Cabinet of Ministers, the protocol for the Cabinet of Ministers. Other faults and shortcomings. Well, I'm not going to pay attention to mistakes or shortcomings. I want to turn to very serious things. This committee proposes to make such a text, agreeing on the obligation for Ukraine to ratify the agreement between the Government and the Government of the Slovak Republic on an international car connection signed in Kiev on 15 June 1995 and the protocol for the addition of the agreement signed on 24 February 2003. There are major coalitions here. The Ukrainian Tax Scheme Act stipulates that the establishment and abolition of taxes and tax collection to budgets and to State trust funds, as well as their benefits to payers, are granted by the Supreme Council only, you know, by law. [[Articles 1 and 19]] Here we're going to do it with this deal. Next. Compilation of this covenant, text, article 2. According to this agreement, passenger transport and bus transportation are the means by which passengers are transported. We read in the protocol on making additions to the agreement. This is about the vehicles registered in the territory of a State, one of the contracting parties, who are temporarily transferring to the territory of a State, the other contracting party. Your Honor, that's why I said I was wondering if I saw the minister. I understand you might just not know it, the minister should have seen it. And in that case, I can't afford to vote for such a completely unsavory document. I would never ask you to put such documents to a vote, because, on the one hand, we put our relationship with good neighbors at risk, and on the other hand, we don't respect our own legislation and deprave officials as badly as these documents are prepared. They don't know that we have the Cabinet of Ministers, they write that they're government. Let them open the Constitution and read, respected professors. And I think that in order for us to make mistakes, Adam Ivanovich, this law needs to be postponed because we don't need to complicate the relationship, but we need to make these things clear and let them tell us the whole story as we know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u128	Thank you. But I'd like to make a point. The Constitution was adopted in 1996. And this is when it was signed? In 1995 So it's all right there, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Solomon. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u129	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Our faction supports this bill, especially since we have always advocated for the strengthening of ties between neighboring nations and fraternal nations, the more Slavic. And on this I would like to put a dot in my part and I would very much like to ask you Adam Ivanovich not to interrupt me, I have to make a little message very important from my point of view. As a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have been provided with some information at my e-mail address in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including today the back address of the known document: prepared for the Department of State Counter-Intelligence Protection, the State Security Service and the copy provided to the Tax Administration and the audit of the State Tax Administration in the Kyiv region. Document from November 12th, the title of the document: a list of organizations that provided financial assistance to candidates of the Ukrainian Presidents from July 3 to November 11th, 2004. A total of about $38 million from the United States, 13 organizations assisted Presidential candidate Viktor Andryovich. Of these organizations listed in this list, I will give this document to the Chief and the proper care to be given to the security services of Ukraine and other relevant entities to verify this information. First, grantors: Boris Berezowski - 20 million, second, National Andoument for Democracy (???) - 3.5 million, third, "USA Agents from International Development" - 2.3 million, NAC "Naphtogas Ukraine" - 2 million, "The Ford Foundation" - 1.5 million and the sixth "Charli Stifort Man Foundation" - 1.5 million. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to consider this message as a parliamentary request to the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to verify that this information is in line with reality and, if so, to take steps to assist the recipients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u130	I think you'll draw up the appropriate documents. And Friday. I won't do it for you, I'm sorry. I don't work for you. I don't work for you. Form and provide appropriate documents. Please, Yavorowski. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. Indeed, we have in our person Slovakia a very kind neighbor with whom we really need to maintain the most intimate contact. I’m not saying that it’s one Slavic root and all that. And of course you do. I think it's just a misunderstanding that we haven't legitimized our cars for so long, I would call them, relationships. And for that, of course, we have to vote. I think we've got enough hands and minds to ratify this bill in all of it with some loose ends that I think we can reach. That's the first one. And the second. It's just that a colleague of mine who just spoke accused him of denying him the right to speak. I am indeed a proponent of freedom of speech and of depriving a person of such a powerful right to speak, I am deeply sorry. But I don't have anything to do with it, I'm saying this because he said it on the air, not in any way. I just couldn't do it because I loved Solomon so much, I grew up so intellectually during these performances that I couldn't just take it and take it away. I'm the one who punished myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, let's calm down, we have to vote. I also point out once again to the Committee of Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich of honour and Yuri Anatoliyovich, who gave in to what the committee staff wrote, that the relevant documents formed in accordance with the Constitution. The document itself, a 1995 treaty in accordance with the Constitution and a protocol signed in 2003, is written: Under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that is, absolutely correct. I'm paying attention to both the committee and Yuri Anatolyevich to the inaccuracies. Let's be clear. I am voting on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the International Road Connection and the Protocol on the Supplementation to this Agreement. Registration number 0202. Please take a friendly vote. [[13:11:10]] For 257 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Passengers and Luggage by Road, registration number 0212, is being complied with. Maybe we'll ratify right away? Is there no objection? Then I place the ratification of the Act on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Passengers and Luggage by Road. Registration number 0212. Please vote. [[13:11:55]] For 261 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the "short procedure" section. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[on the transfer of social infrastructure objects]] Registration number 5541. Reported by the author, National Deputy Kachur Pavlov Stepanovich. Prepare Matthew's Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. The purpose of the bill is to order the transfer of objects from state to municipal property. We've passed a good law. This law, working today, is being passed on. However, there was one problem with the change in state ownership as a result of changing its form, as if in different statuses, it were subject to entrepreneurial activity. And there was this problem where the hostels, which are part of the social infrastructure, are owned by the state, and on the balance of these farms. And the transfer of such an object from state property to the municipal law we have adopted requires the agreement of the labour groups. What really happened? A former state enterprise became a private enterprise. Generally, the company has changed, and those who have given up many years of their work living in hostels are now deprived of even the opportunity they have. Why? Because new owners generally think about how to provide income and housing, which are dormitories, are also viewed from a commercial point of view. So if we're dealing with the transfer of such hostels to communal property, the social protection of people who, unfortunately, have not received housing and hostels is their only place of residence, the social protection of such people will be increased and improved. In this connection, it is proposed that the decision be changed, not in the order of the decision, but in the order of agreement, to the decision made in part two of the fourth article, which relates to the fact that the property of the State, i.e. the groupies, those objects of social infrastructure that have not entered into the statutory fund of the enterprise today remain in state ownership, are transferred to public property only if they agree with the relevant rural, rural, city council or if they are transferred to joint communal property with the relevant district and district council. That is, not to require any other additional agreement in this case. So the request, the bill was passed by the committees of profile, the committees of profile supported, is the appropriate conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers. True, it's part of the property, and I'd like to point out to the Cabinet that in part of the property here, it doesn't matter, the point was how.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, from the committee, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Agriculture, Property, and Investment. You don't? Who's from the committee? Well, the committee's conclusion is to support it. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yes, please, Mironenko, follow him Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u135	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots! It's a good law, in my opinion, and it should be supported. And I am grateful to the author who drafted the bill because this problem has long stood and, God forbid, it should be resolved as soon as possible. Housing must be transferred to communal property, at least what is left, because in many settlements these dormitories have even been destroyed. But please note the other side of this phenomenon: because we emphasize that the most common situation is precisely because the privatization process is under way, which ensures that these facilities are in a difficult situation and that the people living in dormitories are in a terrible situation. He who works in the district knows that they are indeed people's woes, great troubles. We must pay attention to ending privatization, and it is understandable that the Communists are drafting a bill on nationalization and reprivatization, but I am convinced that there will be a large number of deputies in this room who will oppose the bill prepared by the Communist Party of Ukraine on nationalization and reprivatization. Because in this case, it is not mostly our so-called oligarchs, the great capitalists, that are profiting from privatization. And, please note, in any State so-called, civilized, 30 per cent and more, and in our country, our country has the goal of bringing privatization to 100 per cent. For what?Oh, my God! Is it not clear to anyone that this is just a robbery? Unemployment is on the rise, poverty is on the rise. And I would ask you not to call the MPs who would oppose this bill and against the goal of nationalization, to be reprivatized, would like to change. And with the screaming person now, I'm getting better with the faction that I mentioned. I appeal to the few deputies here, I call for the support of all the deputies, all the factions, including the Timoshenko Block, which, I am correcting, was not supported by the Disability Bill yesterday. It's a terrible thing to think about after that when the faction speaks about the people's interests, and it does not do what is right for the people. When it was necessary to vote in favour of a package that envisaged constitutional reform to ensure accountability.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u136	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. But we don't have a Block of Tiny, we have a Block of Timoshenko. Please, Karmazin. After him, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, you did not stop the speech that insulted both our party and our faction and our candidate for Presidential Vice President Viktor Yushchenk, where it was distributed completely unverified, but somewhere else some information, that is, has been thrown away about the financing of what seems to be illegal. I would ask you to. We have law enforcement committees, let's see who, who, who, when, and when giving money, including whether or not two billion dollars is actually spent on Mr. Yanukovic's electoral campaign. And is it really a billion of this money that came from the Russian Federation, including from the Gazprom 400 million, as stated in the Western media, to take away our gas transport system and make a gas transport consortium. I think society will be satisfied with these answers. Now for the draft law. I would like to thank Mr. Kachura for this bill, which proposes to determine the order of transfer to the municipal property of social infrastructure objects that are state-owned, i.e. not owned by enterprises or entered the statutory funds of households created in the privatization process. It's absolutely right and I think we should accept it in the first reading, but I have a suggestion that this transfer, so that these companies will be recorded without agreement with the enterprise and its workforce, if it hasn't entered, I repeat, into the statutory funds of these farm societies. Now we hear Mr. Chechetov claiming to privatize the Odessa Portal Plant every day. It's a very profitable, good business. Desires are on the phone and they're saying, "Stop it!" I'm explaining to the Odessa today. People are good! Don't worry, nobody's privatizing the state enterprise. It's cost-effective. And Mr. Chechetov is likely to be reviewed in this position. And Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give me an assignment. We have Mr. Cloev's credit cards all the time, Mr. Slauti. I request a commission, and I have registered Project 6408, 6407 on the permanent termination of the powers of the national deputies in relation to their personal claims. They're blocking in our parliament. The court says that they have filed an application God knows when and we do not consider it. This is recorded in the decisions of the courts. So in these two deputies, I filed all the papers, including what the courts wrote. Please, if people don't want to exercise their powers, please grant them their requests and let other deputies come and work here instead of running shadow headquarters, there's others, even though they're Vice Prime Minister and they're also members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u138	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I would ask you, believe me, to be the head of the House... uncomfortable to take your word for it, but to say what it is about the bill. Not everything you know or hear. Please, Puzakov. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u139	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I think that not these amendments that are currently being made, but this bill will not create a number of favourable conditions for the efficient operation of new forms of property holdings that have emerged as a result of the reform that has been carried out, for example, in the agricultural sector of the economy. It takes courage to say that it is the reform of the agricultural sector that we have today that has led to the total destruction of the social sphere in the country. We have no courage to give up the services of reformers in the agricultural sector who have landed Ukraine to the very edge, and today they are issuing new recommendations without blinking or eye. The village today has been brought to a standstill by the same state lost half its national wealth and it does not calm down to the idea, "What will this state be in the vast future?" And the authorities are shamelessly demonstrating peace, civil peace, in the face of complete destruction and impoverishment. In rural areas there are now fewer than a quarter of domestic service enterprises, and the number of retail businesses is reduced to impossible. In short, the country today is a hopeless, terrible social situation, adding to the process of moral depravity, the loss of an eternal interest in the earth, such as the nursing home, the foundation of abundance, and the good way of life. On the basis of the foregoing, I have a question: "What does it mean to transfer social property objects to utilities, which objects?" When the social sphere in the countryside — a rare case — is still preserved, it does not need to be passed on to anyone. I think it's important for those who destroyed the village to put their wallets on hold, to rebuild the social sphere, and only then, in an exemplary way, to pass it on to municipal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u140	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u141	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are witnessing with you how this bill under the flag of aid to people is really just a means of putting makeup on the beastly face of capitalism. In the country, there is now a seemingly attractive and necessary process of transfer from state property to municipal and private property, not only what worked for the entire Ukrainian people, but also what belonged to them and what they used in the hostels. But at the same time, we know with you that the money that the state has allocated, or state-owned enterprises to maintain the housing fund, including dormitories, is no longer available, is no longer available in municipal budgets, in local budgets, and in private individuals who even privatize such hostels. So I feel that this bill, it'll only partially improve the construction of those people who are still using these hostels. And I remember almost a year ago in the Kyiv region in the village of the town of the Chabans of Kyevo-Svetoshin district, people who lived in hostels of one of the scientific research institutes, and these groups, they were privatized by one individual private person, and these people began to evict from these hostels, they came together protesting against this new owner, and then it ended with him running into these people, causing some injuries, and there was a certain legal pull and interaction between those people who suffered and the new owner. Unfortunately, it's not a single case and it's going to continue, so our faction, understanding the real state of things, has determined that the first reading of this bill can be supported with at least some of the protection of those people who continue to live in these hostels. But at the same time, we are confident that we realize that it is possible, radically, to resolve this issue, only on one condition, when the Soviet authorities, the power for the people and the power of the people themselves, and when the socialist system in our society will be restored. And for today, we have a homeland that's being handed out here, a bourgeois-democracy, and a country is capitalist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u142	Question completed. Matvienkov, please, a minute of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Undoubtedly, this bill needs to be supported, but here we would like to go further in preparing this bill for second reading. There's another problem. In stock companies, not only are dormitories on the balance sheet, there are social networking facilities. Ilic's combination, let's say there's about 30 preschool facilities somewhere, there's sports facilities. It is now a logical question: instead of transferring these objects to the balance sheet of the State, instead of spending further on the budget of public funds for their maintenance, if these owners, shareholders today are prepared to maintain the level or maintain the profile of these institutions to contain them, let us decide to transfer these objects to these shareholders, without taking, so to say, their fees. For God's sake, let these kindergartens work, let these pioneer camps work, let sports facilities work, so we don't waste a penny of government money, we can keep the profile. Once the profile has been changed, of course, the State will have the right to remove those objects. There is therefore a request for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u144	You said it right, even though you started a little bit away, I was scared. Because if you give back what you have, it will die. So that's right, you did the right thing. Please, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[on the transfer of social infrastructure objects]] Registration number of Bill 5541. Please vote. [[13:30:44]] For 261 We have two laws with that number of votes. The bill was adopted in the first reading. There is a draft of the Development of Production Act. No, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. The next bill on the development of the production and consumption of biological fuels at the request of both the author of the bill and the profile committee is passed on. A draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Offences in the Naphtogas Area is under consideration. Bill number 4536. The bill was drafted by the People's Deputy of Tretlyaków Alexander. I can't see. From the committee of Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please. I've got a three-minute cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Petroleum Law." Registration number, number 4536, submitted by the authors of the legislative initiative by the national deputies of Ukraine, Trelyakiv and Martinenko. The position of the committee on the conceptual provisions of the bill coincides with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. In sharing the current idea of the bill as a whole, the committee, together with its authors, considers it possible to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the bill in the first reading and to adopt it on a basis, taking into account the comments and proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u146	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Shall we vote? Who insists on signing up? Yes, please, Mironenko, follow him Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u147	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. I want to say that, of course, these issues need to be addressed, but we should also point out that, even though we have not been able to reflect this idea in the preceding statement, we must hand over strategic sectors of the economy to the State, to the people, as is the case in Italy, in France. You know that Italy passed a law back in the 62st year that allowed electricity to be nationalized. State enterprises have been set up to deal with the oil and gas complex. And they, these public enterprises, provide affordable tariffs and prices for the economy and the population. It's very important. The second provides sufficient income to the State budget. We now have these industries -- energy and other industries -- increasingly and more in the hands of the public. And we are talking here about offences, even administrative, civil liability. That's Stalin being scolded, isn't it? But with Stalin, somewhere a lot of people say crime was low. Why? Because there were strict laws. If we take Germany, which is now forgotten by the screamer, there are also very strict laws. Why do we have such a propensity for criminals who set the industry apart? Because the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the legislature, in fact, is dominated by oligarchs, major capitalists, and the people need to pay attention and support the Communist faction so that the strategic sectors of the economy are nationalized. At that time, there will be affordable prices and tariffs for the population and for the economy, an economy will develop, and our people will have a significant increase in the standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u148	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u149	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In fact, every day we have amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences. I'm asking you to assign the task to the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the Institute and to the law enforcement committees to develop at the end a new version of the code that would provide for all these changes. Adam Ivanovich, please, you can see how much time we're spending. And it doesn't come to anyone that this code was adopted back in 1984, and that's a long time ago. I would do that, well, I'm running out of time, and all of these projects need to be studied, and they need to be studied, because so suddenly, "goodies" can't be adopted because, for example, it's proposed in Article 101 to introduce administrative responsibility, to change it, and in 93 it's already foreseen for violating the requirements of legislation and other normative acts of safe work in all sectors of industry, without exception. Since the oil and gas industry is part of the industry, there is no need for this norm at all. If we were to think about it differently, instead of this article in 93, we would need just as many articles as we need branches. So in metallurgy, mining, steel construction, and everything else. This is ridiculous, Your Honor. So absolutely in view of this addition to article 101, it's something that shouldn't be used here completely. I think once we've discussed it, we can accept it on the first reading. And, Adam Ivanovich, I want to draw the attention of the leadership of the Supreme Council to the fact that some other MPs continue to congregate, such as the National Deputy Kuzmuk, at the same time the Secretary of Defense, and are now taking action in the Jewish garrison under the leadership of Major General Kopanica to support a candidate from power. In the Garrison of Right, Lieutenant General Zabotny, First Deputy Commander of the Garrison. Well, how is this: all actions are sanctioned by the Minister of Defense, who gave the word that he would not intervene in the electoral process. It's an army! So I think this is where the responsibility is set. And let us put this responsibility into practice by that time. I request that the Rules Committee be given an appropriate mandate. And then, perhaps, let us also take administrative responsibility, the new article, for such intervention, because most of the other military units are again authorized by the Ministry of Defense to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u150	Shall we finish? Please, Solomon. Follow him, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u151	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it is painful for me to study and discuss such drafts as is prescribed because they determine what has happened to our people and our people and our Ukraine in the oil and gas sector. And here's what happened. What this bill is talking about, two main and key issues: first, counterfeiting, artificial influences on oil, gas, and processing products, and administrative responsibility for it is not there; and second, they're cutting into oil and gas pipelines so that in a few hours you can dump a whole bunch of vehicles and take dozens of tons, hundreds of tons of products in an unknown direction. This raises the question of increasing administrative responsibility. But this responsibility should be directed not only to those who take direct action but also to the system of farming that has been established in Ukraine today, which distorts relations between people and production groups and contributes to such phenomena in our country and in our people. This is a disgrace to the system that has taken place in Ukraine. This is the beastly escalator of capitalism that has prevailed in Ukraine since the 13th year after Ukraine became a capitalist restoration and market relations in the nation's agriculture in 1991. So I want to emphasize just one thing, our faction definitely supports this bill, because it's going to at least contribute a little bit to the way in which the oil and gas system works, and it's going to at least warn people a little bit that they're not supposed to do what they're doing today, but that they're going to do a little bit of a mess in our lives and especially in the lives of the working people who are set up in Ukraine. What you can do. You don't want that to happen? I'll say it again in the end and it's not new. To regain the power of the people, the Soviet authorities, and to replace this predatory socialist system with socialism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u152	The word has been given to the national deputy of Gojornik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u153	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Deputies! Indeed, the law improves and strengthens the responsibility for the thefts that take place in the oil - gas field, which is one of the most profitable in our society. And in this regard, I agree with a previous speaking colleague who rightly said that if we didn't improve legislation under an existing system of power, there would still be similar violations in all spheres. And an example of this is our guardian of the Constitution, the head of state, President Kuchma, who, in exchange for signing the law that is absolutely necessary for the People's Deputies Election Act in order to open the press of ballot papers, is reciting Parliament to allow it to enter its residence. Well, what does the presidential residence have to do with Parliament, and how can such a racket be done? If the head of state is involved in the racket, it is not surprising that the gas - oil fields are also involved. I will support and I urge my colleague to uphold this law, although I doubt it will work, but I think it will work, because after 26 there will be a new president, and there will be a new power. And I urge everyone to support this new power and our country, because I want to say that there is no country, neither communist nor capitalist. Our famous poet Vasil Simonenko, to remind some MPs, said, "You can choose everything in the world, son, you can't just choose the Motherland." Now, who doesn't know about this, this guy says a lot of things when he orders certain structures, he yells that a hat is on fire at a thief. Having received the tranche, he makes his trances, and because of this noise, the great noise of nothing that has occurred since the morning in our room from the delivery of the Communist faction. I call for a vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u154	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Petroleum Law. [[Registration number 4536]] Please vote. [[13:45:16]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 4567. [[on the implementation of quality products]] Here we have a reporter and a committee, and, I understand that, and from the authors, Malinowski Alexi Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u155	Alexei Malinowski, the Socialists’ Faction, Cherkaschina, respected colleagues, and radio listeners are explained by the need to make the proposed changes to article 227 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code by the appropriate differentiation of responsibility for such crimes as the release or implementation of inadequacies according to the nature and degree of social danger. Since the availability of this article covers virtually any product or product, the nature of the social hazard is extremely diverse, for example, the degree of social danger of the release of an indivisible ball or non-pharmaceutical medicine, or the brake system of the car is incomparable. And it can't be covered by a penalty like a fine. or correctional work, thus, as a measure of State coercion, as set out in the article does not fully accomplish its objectives, namely: does not help to correct a convicted person, does not prevent convicted new crimes, does not prevent others from committing the crime. The list of goods and products in the project is not exhaustive, and in each case the conclusion of the danger of life and human health should be an expert. The draft law does not provide for additional expenditure from the budget. The scientific expertise has concluded a number of observations that will certainly be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The Committee on Legislative Security decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u156	Thank you. Thank you, Alexi Petrovich. Shall we vote? Puzakov, behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u157	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Previously, there was a state-of-the-art and consumer rights committee in Ukraine, but then they were reorganized into the Ministry of Economics. This led to a deterioration in the quality of goods and services. And if you go through the markets, you'll notice that there's no control over the quality of the goods. Let's follow, for example, the quality of the meat that because of the high price is not available to the buyer, and it's not fully realized during the day. About the middle of the day, it changes its appearance and has an unpleasant smell. But the seller is not a murderer, for the next day the meat falls back on the counter. And we don't know what kind of work was done. Sanitary epidemiology services don't seem to notice all of this. This raises the question: Is there a guarantee that the consumer of such meat will not receive poisoning or additional diseases? By then, we will be talking about trade in food from the earth, where dairy and meat products, cakes, and biscuits are next to the vegetables. The product is covered with dust, decays in the sun, and the taste buds disappear. So the question is, Did he get high quality? And what, is this state preparing to join the WTO? Where is the competition between our companies and foreign companies? But the Communists have suggested and suggested that the consumer market should be tighter and tighter, including the widespread creation of a worldwide system of health - related advertising. As soon as such products are found on a commercial network, all relevant ministries and departments that are obliged to remove inequity goods should be informed of this immediately. No case of the removal of certain goods should be unpunished. It's just a crime against the people. So the centres of standardization, metrology and certification should now be reorganised into the scientific and manufacturing centres on which the committees for the development of standards that are really close to Europeans should operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u159	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National MPs, the Criminal Code is a very difficult thing to do. To make changes that easily, we need to do a very detailed analysis. The substance of the proposed changes is to establish a higher responsibility for the actions, if they are done with regard to products, products that are themselves, or include, as constituents, medicines, vehicles, other products, products that are used as a result of such activities, which pose a danger to human life and health. It doesn't make any sense what they are, what products and goods are, which are at the same time part of drugs and transport products, because they are already products and goods, and what products and goods are in themselves dangerous to human life and health, and as a result they start to create, because the question arises: what actions? And should it be intended for the subject of the legislative initiative to be the large size of the inadequacies of the mandatory composition of the crime envisaged in part two of article 227. I mean, I predict that in the judges that I welcome to the day of court, we have a lot of honest, responsible judges, especially in the Supreme Court. And it is sad that we have not received the greeting of all the judges of Ukraine today with this festival. There will be difficulties, I say, if we adopt such a bill in that form. Because it offers scientific expertise? They suggest that the results of the review be sent for re-reading work and made comments on three pages. I'd join them. I'd like to join them and ask Adam Ivanovich to help me, help all the Ukrainian people sort out and figure out who in the Presidential Administration is forging orders, because this morning I told you to fake it. Here's my order on the release of Satsuk on December 13, 1442. And this is Order 1442 to assign Dire Igor Mikolaiovich, the head of the Directorate of European Integration, to the diplomatic rank of the extraordinary ambassador. Two orders by one number. That's how the fakes were done. I think that once this is done, it's urgent to create an investigative commission or assign a committee to deal with organized crime because that's how they falsify, cheat, and commit criminal crimes. And we're talking about amending the Criminal Code. In the current Criminal Code, this is called abuse of the service and office floor. It was just that or that person. We have this entry number - 14.12.2004 at 11.37, even the date when that decree was, and now under the same number is being falsified. That's why. In front of the whole country. I urge you, Adam Ivanovich, to intervene and help the people to know justice and attract.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u160	Thank you. First, today, such a greeting was given to the Judge’s Day. At 12 p.m., the Head of the Supreme Council met with a large group of representatives of the judicial corps and not only greeted him but also welcomed him seriously. And secondly, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I would like to help you and the Ukrainian people, but you do not want what you say to happen, you will ensure the proper conditions for the work of the President's Administration. You're keeping them from working, so it could be. So you do what you wrote in the contract first, and then you won't, because it's written on your knee. Please, Mironenko, follow Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u161	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots! In keeping with the words just made, I would really like to draw attention to the fact that all of us must be law-abiding. Today, Lithuania, the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, spoke, and also yesterday, saying that the Government must comply with the decree. But why is it that those who block the Government, the President's Administration, do not treat them as people and so on do not comply with the ruling? The President of the Supreme Council said that the decree was a law to be enforced, but why did it not show the same principle to the other side? I don't think that's a legal position. And I regret to say that, following my visit to the United States of America, Vladimir Mihajlovich, unfortunately sold an anti-constitutional ruling by the Supreme Council concerning the Supreme Court, which was an intervention in the Supreme Court, and then prevented the adoption of a ruling that would repeal the anti-constitutional order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u162	Please, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u163	On a topic. I'd like everyone to stick to the letter of the law. The Scientific and Expert Office proposes that the bill should be re-readed because, in fact, the comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office deserve much attention. And I am truly grateful to the Chief Executive for the work that is being done. But I cannot agree, however, that what needs to be read again is enough to be accepted on first reading. All the amendments made by the Scientific and Expert Office can be made to the second reading. However, our task is to remember consumers, Ukrainian citizens who require care in this regard. Well, the correct idea was to bring our legislation closer to European Union law. We understand that the European Union will not accept us in 30-50 years, but we need to bring legislation closer because it is a step forward, and it will also help bring the peoples of Europe closer together, and Ukraine is Europe, which is often forgotten. Well, I regret to say that we must draw closer to the law and to the European Union, to Russia and Belarus, but the head of the Law Enforcement Committee, Moses, received a modular bill from the CIS concerning the police, has done a summary of the fact that it cannot be considered in general by the Supreme Council of Ukraine because it violates sovereignty. What's so absurd?Oh, my God! Well, you can't do that! We must ensure the rapprochement of States, and there is no violation of sovereignty here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u164	Please, Solomatin Yuri Petrovich. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u165	Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster From the perspective of the Chernobylites and the population that lives in the affected areas. I want to do a review of this bill. Thus, much of the people of Volinsk, Ravensk, Žitomirsk, and other areas survive because they collect berries, mushrooms, and supply them to markets not only in Ukraine but primarily in Europe, and primarily in Poland. What is the point here, and what is the question here? Our patriots from Chernobyl's radiation defense have set acceptable levels of radioactive pollution of mushrooms and berries 10 times more severe than what is in Europe, and that's why today, when you're driving through every area and you see berries and mushrooms, it's always higher than the levels of radioactive pollution. And the whole people that are standing along the roads, they have to go under this law to a catalog and get from 1 to 5. We need to understand that properly. On the other hand, the same glorious Europe has acceptable levels of radioactive pollution of about 1,000 bicycles per kilogram, 10 times more liberal. And what we have is polluted, it is not considered polluted in Europe. And here's the colossion, which was created by the declared patriots of radiation protection 10 years ago. From this point of view, the bill is extremely dangerous, so I would like the Ukrainian National MP Malinowski, a representative of the Socialist faction, to immediately call him back to work. You can't accept such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u166	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. Let's vote. I'm voting on a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the implementation of quality products]] Registration number 4567. Please vote. [[14:00:09]] For-81 Maybe we'll go back to the recommendation on re-reading? I'm betting on re-reading. Please be supportive. Once again, we vote. [[14:00:37]] For-164 The bill is off. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 2, Ukraine - 14, Communist faction - 47, SDPU - 13, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 18, SPI - 19, Block Timoshenko - 12, Union - 4, only Ukraine - 14, Center - 1, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 4, Deminicative - People's Government - 9, non-fractional - 7. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Control of International Transfers of Military Assignment and Double Use. [[Registration number 4365]] Report to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The six-year practice of applying the 2003 Act on State Control of International Transfers of Goods of Military Purpose and Double Use revealed the need to make some clarifications. In particular, clarify the concept of military service. It's different. Expand the scope of international transfers of such goods. Since we have foreign economic or other activities that transit goods in Ukraine and military formations that temporarily export or import goods to teach or ensure the activities of these formations outside Ukraine. Our colleague, National Deputy Sovkovic, passed an appropriate bill. As we considered him, our committee, in principle, agreed to support him for the first reading. At the same time, we believe that when preparing this bill for the second reading, it is necessary to supplement the provisions on the characteristics of State control over transfers of goods by these subjects. Since the Law provides for an internal export control system, but it can hardly be applied to military formations and foreign entities, and it may not be entirely accurate for military purposes to export or import dual-use goods. It is likely that the services will contribute to the exportation or import of such goods. With this in mind, the Committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-15-m0.u168	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, sit down, please. Shall we vote? I'm voting for acceptance. I'll give the replica to Yuri Anatoliyovich, I remember. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Control of International Transfers of Goods of Military Purpose and Double Use, registration number 4365. Please vote. [[14:04:03]] For a hundred and For one more time, Georgi Korniyovich, but please, I'm putting the vote to a re-reading. Please vote. [[14:04:32]] For the 110. Decision taken, bill rejected. That's what we need, 10 minutes left, I think we can do the inclusion, I remember Yuri Anatoliyovich, I remember putting several bills into the agenda. It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the addition of Ukraine to the 2004 State Budget Act. Bill number 6249. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:05:25]] For-41 The question is not included. On the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the taxation system. Registration number 6165 and 6165-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:02]] For-95 Dear colleagues, it's not about people, it's about wanting to support them. I see there's 292 cards. And we're taking fewer bills. It is up to the vote on the day-to-day draft of the Act amending the Law on Added Cost Tax. [[on a special tax regime in the field of agriculture and forestry]] Registration number 6153. Please vote. [[14:06:48]] For-60 Let's do it this way. Those interested in these bills should be invited to the next session of the Conciliation Board to contact the factions and groups with suggestions to support them for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Yes, I promised Solomon a replica. Please, the microphone. Solomon’s microphone is not on. At this, dear colleagues, the morning session is closed. We're still working on committees and factions. At 4 p.m., an earlier meeting will take place with the economic bloc of the government and the heads of factions and groups on the approval of the budget, the adoption of the 2005 budget. Yuri Anatolyevich, I gave you my word, but you were busy. It's not my fault. Good-bye.
