ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u1	Yes, Your Honor, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:01:48]] Registered -413 I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We have every reason to work productively, judging from the number of registered people. Dear colleagues, first thing I'd like to say is, at 3:00, I gave a certificate to our appointed judges. And they were truly grateful that we understood the situation because, in fact, some had come three times before that we had considered the matter. They expressed their sincere thanks. There was another meeting of the Conciliation Council, indeed, not in full stock, but we could practically determine the thoughts, because the majority were represented by the coordinator who spoke on their behalf. As I have informed you, your Honorary colleagues, at the previous meeting of faction leaders and groups, we have arranged that, as one of the outcomes of this situation in which we find ourselves, if not by the entire Supreme Council, if we do not take a decision, we should prepare a letter on behalf of the deputies who are to sign the heads of the parliamentary factions and groups to the President of Ukraine. Such a letter to the President of Ukraine has been prepared, where a certain assessment is given and the main thing is: "Dear Leonide Danilovich, given that the current legislation of Ukraine refers to the authority of the President of Ukraine to take decisions on the withdrawal of Ukrainian peacekeeping contingents, and taking into account the particular focus of this issue in today's political situation, we, the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who signed below, ask for consideration on the withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq." Under this letter are the signatures of the leader of the Communist Party's Communist Party Simonnka, the leader of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, Turkinov, the leader of the faction of the Socialist Party of Frost and the representative of the democratic group "Centr" Kosinova. I mean, in general. Dear colleagues, I have named all those who have signed. I didn't miss anyone, and I didn't forget anyone. I repeat, under this letter to the President, are the signatures I have notified you. The total number of factions whose leaders signed -- about 117 people's deputies -- we were hoping that we would get at least the necessary majority to unlock this process. So I see those who want to make constructive suggestions on what we should do next, please log in. Yes, please explain, we'll take 10 minutes and we'll be clear. Manchulenko. Get ready, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u2	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! Yesterday, there was a closed procedure on this issue because there were elements that fell under a certain heading of secrecy. The Secretary of Defense may not have been very convincing, the representatives of the BSC and the secretary of the RNB received some information, and draft decisions were considered. Unfortunately, none of the choices have been made. So the procedure is over, the decision is not made. And I think that putting the blame on Parliament for some things is politically illiterate. We have to get the seals, the demonstrations, the strikes at the Ukrainian Presidential Authority, and let him make the final decision because he was sending troops there. Here's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u3	Please, Bull. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u4	Georgi Bujko, Donetsk Region, Company of Ukraine. Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! Simonenko's Communist faction. The Communist faction reaffirms its consistent position, which clearly demonstrates the need to withdraw our military contingent from Iraq, and we insist on that. Our position is that the Communists require the Supreme Council to take a political decision, whose purpose would be to vote one paragraph: to ask the President of Ukraine to consider withdrawing a military contingent from Iraq. We come from the next. On the one hand, our soldiers in Iraq are killed and there are gravely wounded, on the other hand, the real threat of terrorist acts in Ukraine, against the people of Ukraine, as announced yesterday by representatives of the Security Service. We are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u6	Filthy. He's got Belarus on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u7	Please pass the word to Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u8	Ice cream microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u9	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! I asked for words to say that. It was my initiative to protect the deputies who are afraid to vote in the session room with the signatures of the faction leaders. And the Conciliators of the Conciliation Council supported this proposal. I am addressing Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, who supported this proposal, to others, to the majority, who said it was possible to remove the misunderstanding in the session room. And so if most and others today don't want to sign this simple, concise letter, then I don't know what they want, and why they're afraid to do what is already provided for by their faction leaders -- protect the MP's honour, not embarrass him here before.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u10	Please, Billorus, follow him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u11	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u12	Turkinov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, today the number of repressions against the political opposition of the regime is increasing in Ukraine. There are provocations, arrests. We're used to it, but I'm talking to national MPs who don't want to support the offer of returning Ukrainian soldiers from Iraq. Kuchma and his environment use these people as a living shield. A shield that shields their crimes from the western world, their theft of Ukraine, and the looting of Ukraine. I beg you, let's get this shield back to Ukraine. Let us make them answer for their actions. And the next, dear colleagues, I ask you also to put, Adam Ivanovich, to the vote the issue of banning the privatization of the flag of the Ukrainian metallurgy "Cruvoristals". Tomorrow they're privatizing the Railroad, tomorrow they're privatizing land and air. We have to stop this nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u14	Please, Nadya, follow him, Kendzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, judging by the draft letter I have here, it is proposed that the President be asked, within his mandate as Chief, to decide on the relative peacekeeping contingent in Iraq. I believe that it is purely legal to put the issue absolutely right. The more I am informed, and we have discussed this with ourselves, the fact that today all participants, I mean factions and parliamentary groups who are present in the Hall, have already been identified and have addressed the President with such positions, in particular what Adam Ivanovich, who signed, has called. That's the first one. And the second thing is that, at this point, at the request of all the other factions of Trudwy Ukraine, she has already written a similar appeal to the President. But it may not be right for the same person to write to one official twice. I therefore believe that there is a position today, she said, that she had expressed herself to the Supreme Commander. Now, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u16	Please, Kenzier, follow him, Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u17	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Indeed, this is one option that is now proposed not only for faction leaders, but perhaps for each national MP personally to address the President with his own personal letter and set out his position. Because in "Our Ukraine," for example, half the deputies voted in favour of the idea of recall. But in this situation, I'm very surprised by the transformation of the Communist faction. Because it was this political force that, back in the Soviet Union, did not ask anyone, so to speak, but sent military contingents, giving international aid to both Hungary, Germany, and Poland, and Afghanistan, and so on. And as of today, such a sharp shift in position. I'm in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u18	Nosenko. Get ready for Boko instead of Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u19	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u20	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u21	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, in the numerous correspondence that comes to the committee, some part of this correspondence is the appeal of our parents, pensioners, veterans, disabled people, who ask for a solution. I have the impression that those who today stubbornly take a stand against this problem are trying to bring war to Ukraine, to Kiev, to Krestletick. And cross a deck of cards, as my predecessor does when he tries to pass the blame for today's affairs on me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u22	Please, Boki. After him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u23	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, do in your mind and in the spirit of the majority, of course, will not sign such an appeal to the President. And that's understandable. And that's why I'm taking this initiative. That's what our women MPs have to take on. Mrs. Bogtyrova, Mrs. Vashkuk, Mrs. Proscuratova and other women MPs, you are mothers, you are sisters, you are wives, you are obliged to address the one who sent our people, our young men to die. She is also a doctor, and she will certainly take such an initiative, and if she does not take such an initiative, she simply has no right to be called a woman and a mother. That is exactly what I am addressing Catherine Timothy Vaschuk and other women. I think you'll do it for humanistic reasons, and just like women, just like mothers, or you'll be embarrassed if you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u24	Yavorowski. Then there'll be lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u25	He asks me very much to pass on the word Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky. A famous man like him, I say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u26	Please, Igor Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! I've been thinking about this for a long time, and I can't even imagine what Ukraine would look like if it started pulling out its own troops. It would make Iraq laugh, it would make the whole of Europe laugh, and it would be a complete international disgrace to the state. That's the first one. We need to deploy troops at the request of Communists who had a close relationship with Saddam Hussein. That's funny, too. Therefore, Ukraine should not be intimidated by terrorism; it should be wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u28	Yes, please, there will be a line. There'll be lines. Let's start with the gmira, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u29	Here Kenzior, on behalf of the "ours" openly and cynically tried to pull our troops out of Iraq: he spoke all kinds of nonsense for one reason only, in order to argue with those who today could vote in favour of withdrawing our troops from Iraq. I'm not going to say who the "ours" are, but I'm sure it's not the American people, because the American people are not only George Bush Jr., and this is Mohammed Ali, who went to prison, but refused to participate in the dirty war in Vietnam. And we, the Communists, are behind all the peoples, together with the American people, who, like the people of Ukraine, are outraged by what his Government is doing. Kenzier's a trigger man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u30	Yes, please, Vaszczuk, prepare Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u31	I am deeply grateful to John Boki, although in this way the manly part of the hall mentioned that women are national deputies. For example, when the law on elections was voted on a proportional basis, a large part of the male parliament simply forgot that if there were at least 30 percent of the women in the room, many laws were not adopted that violated the rights of women, children who were not concerned about the family. It would be the other face of the Ukrainian Parliament, both human and social, and aesthetically. Women will make their mission. We had a conversation with the President, especially when I had this conversation, and we will continue to do everything we can to protect our children as safely as possible and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u32	Please, Richter's, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! I think it's not just me, it's the women of Parliament who are very happy about what they've finally mentioned. But what I want to say to my colleague is this: as lopsided as you are now, just using an article, it's cynical, it's rude and it's wrong, and it's even immoral. But I'll tell you this: you can't imagine, if I agree to your offer, you'll be running away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! We have been very peaceful today, and we can get enough of it. One more time. Dear colleagues, I explain to those who want to talk: we always exchange each other's lines. Kenzior called the faction, he got the word. Dear colleagues, this is how we treat you. You're the first to start. So, my dear fellows, let's sleep with the thoughts we've been exchanging. The evening session is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
