ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Yeah, turn on the board, let's register. [[10:03:27]] Registered -424 There were 424 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues, today is our birthday to John Sidorovich Boko, let me also welcome Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagiliski. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I sincerely welcome my colleagues with their birthdays, and we wish them success in their work. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. People's deputies please sign up to make their statements. messages and suggestions. In the meantime, I'll call in the MP's questions. Please report to the MPs. People's MPs have been asked. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the President of Ukraine on the violation by the State authorities of constitutional human rights in respect of the repayment of debts to teachers of the Malin Zitomirsk region. I would like to vote in favour of the President's request. [[10:05:30.]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the President of Ukraine for the solution of the questions raised in the address of citizen Alexander Bondarenko. Please identify with this request the name of the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:02]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine concerning the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 29 November 2003 “On measures to improve the effectiveness of the State’s external political activities”. [[TARASJUC, CARMASINE, ZARUBINE, AND OTHERS Total 27 deputies]] Please make up your mind. [[10:06:40]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Victor MUSIJAKI to the President of Ukraine on the order and deadline for the appointment of the Ukrainian National Deputy President. Please make up your mind. [[10:07:07]] For 133 The decision is not taken. MICILI TOMENKA to the President of Ukraine on the inactivity of the State Committee of Television and the radio broadcasting of Ukraine in connection with violations of the information fields of Ukrainian legislation in the field of protection of social morality. Please make up your mind. [[10:07:37]] For-157. Copy that. Then I ask you to vote on the referral to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:09]] For-183 It's a little short. The decision is not taken. Yurya BOJKA to the President of Ukraine for his unsatisfactory preparations for the celebration of the 190th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birth at the national level. Please determine whether to support the request. [[10:08:39]] For 171 Decision taken. Please vote for the request to the President. [[10:09:00]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 84, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 58, Party of Labour and Industrialists - 0, Social Democrats - 2, People's Government - 1, Socialist - 10, Block of Timoshenko - 18, Deminiciative - 0, Agrarian Party - 9, People's Choice and NDP - 0, Postfraction - 5. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on how to finance publications of Ukrainian national deputies in printed media Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the subject of budgetary indebtedness to the newspaper Voice of Ukraine for highlighting Parliament's activities and publishing official materials. [[GAVRISH, JUSTICE, AND OTHERS. Total 7 deputies]] Victor OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for refusal by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to grant permission to rent a site for parking and storage of special equipment and non-residential buildings to a limited company with limited responsibility for the Odessa Region Odiopol Trade and Exhibition Complex. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the membership of Ukraine in the National Authority of the Intergovernmental Aviation Committee of the countries of the SND. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to execute the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 17 March 2003 in part of the construction of social sites in the Plain region in the 30km area of the Hmelnicka AES. [[RED, BROAD, ALEXIUK]] Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the indifference of officials of the Kirovograd District Administration to war veterans and the work on improving living conditions. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-application of measures by the agrarian bloc of the government to ensure the legitimate rights of the inhabitants of the village of Lebedin in the region of Chernigiv. Alexander THE Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of a mechanism for the return of deposits, taking into account the period of investment in the Savings Bank. ROBERT to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the heating of the apartment building in Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. YURIA SIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request for grants. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on Measures to Cancel the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 9 December 2003 “Some issues relating to the purchase of goods, works and services by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine”, which contravenes the requirements of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine, secretly repeals the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, works, services for public funds,” and violates the rights of operators of tenure through the creation of a monopoly that threatens the national interest and security of Ukraine. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that took place in the Krasnopoljanskýmash factory and in the village of Alexiyivka Donetský region. Mikhail KOSIVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the loss of the creative heritage of artist Stephen Koropczak as a result of the actions of the State Tax Administration in the Lviv region. A group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the completion of the construction of the Infectious Corps of the Killian Central District Hospital of the Odessa Region. [[THE harbinger, the rudder, and others. Total 7 deputies]] Mr. Ivan Vernidubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the fact that the Sevastopol City Administration had been contacted on December 29, 2003. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the activities of the Ukrainian National Television regarding the requirements of Ukrainian legislation in part of the use of budgetary resources for 2003. Victor ZAIČKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the payment of the State Budget debt to Sevastopol’s budget for the provision of benefits to the electricity community. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on plans for further repayment of the debt by the commercial shareholder Bank “Slovakia” to dissatisfied investors. Yuri Shirka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andrey Klav, regarding the technical requirements for the manufacture and supply of tarpaulins to the Plains nuclear power plant. Anatolia PALIGARY to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andrey Klav, for the provision of coal to workers and pensioners of the “Snowsnian” mine in the Donetsk region. Ms. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Mr. Ivan Kirilenko on the unsatisfying situation with regard to the lending of agricultural enterprises of Novomykolayivski, Vilnius, Zaporizki, Pologov region of Zaporizki region for the conduct of spring and field work. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine for illegal acts by the prosecutor of the city of Mukachev and for the prosecution of the Zakarpat region. [[MICHELLE, SIMONS, AND OTHERS. Total 6 deputies]] Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegality of assigning Kival's class act to the National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Attorney General's Office, and the use of procurator's measures to annul such a decision. [[Lieutenant General]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, on taking urgent action to remove violations of the constitutional rights of the former judge of the Kalinov District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Vadim Sidorenka for a timely and fair review of criminal decisions in relation to him in an exclusive manner, the termination by officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Donetsk Region of their official duties, as expressed in ignoring the requirements of the law, the instructions of the Attorney-General's Office of Ukraine and the failure to carry out checks on the new circumstances in the criminal case of Sidorenka, to prevent him from being charged with the procedural decision taken. Andrija SKILA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violation of the Criminal Procedure Code on Criminal Procedure in relation to civil servants of the Housing and Maintenance Area No. 2 of Uzhgrada. Mr Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the use by the Head of the Department of State Automobile Inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Karakay S.V. documents called Bogdanova S.V. on foreign vacations during the years 1999-2003. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with repeated appeals to the executive authorities regarding the violation of legislation on land leases. VICTOR BALOGI to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the formal response of the Office of the Attorney -General of Ukraine to Mikita M.V. on the incompleteness of the criminal investigation into the murder of her son by the District Attorney's Office and the improper transmission of her letters to the perpetrators she is complaining about. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Wynnick District State Administration for the large-scale theft of collective property by the Director of the Joint Undertaking “The Start” and the inaction of local authorities in the Tulčin district of Vinick in the protection of the rights of residents of the village of Bilousovka. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the wrongful conviction of a citizen named Yashchenka by the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region. SLABENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of dissatisfaction and the outcome of the consideration of parliamentary requests and legal questions. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on speeding up the transfer to the lease of the liberated funds of the Uzinski garrison. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the conduct of an additional criminal investigation into the beating of the resident of Winnica. VICTOR OF THE U.S. Department of Health in connection with hearing aids for hearing disabled persons living in the area of 69 constituencies in the Gitomir region. Mr. Vladimir NOVAK to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine when he was released from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces as a member of the fighting in the Republic of Afghanistan, Major Yatzenka. A group of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to implement the decision of the Sarnen Regional Court in respect of seniority payments, assisted in the recovery, compensation for violations of the payment deadlines for teachers of the school No. 2 of the city of Sarna Rivna district. [[RED, OLEXIUM, AND OTHERS. Total 4 deputies]] Paul KACHAURA and Eugene HORNIK to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the city of the Hmelnicka group of former “Cation” plant. Taras STECHKIVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the granting to citizens of Ukraine the status of a war invalid as a result of the illness received during the military service. JURY OF THE ORBJECTION to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the indemnity of the issue of damages to citizens of Kozinec. Jury CARMAZIN AND STEPAN HMARA to the Head of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, the Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations on the Use of Measures to Eliminate the Illegal Use of Ukrainian Intelligence Authorities for the Purpose of Political Spying, and the decision on the removal of Igor Smishka, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and Head of the Chief Intelligence Directorate, Oleg Sinyanski, for the abuse of office, for the abuse of official authority, for the removal of officials, for intervention in the activities of the State actor. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in response to an unsatisfying response to a request for the illegal sale of 25 hectares of land on the territory of the international airport Borispold. MICHELLA to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for information on the amounts of money spent by the National Bank of Ukraine in a campaign on the introduction of new bank notes. Jury BOJKA to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the groundless release of the Ministry of Culture and Arts of Ukraine, Igor Lisovski, from the post of Director General of the Shevchenkov National Reserve in Canev. VICTOR BALLOGA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for the illegal actions of the Torturer United Tax Inspectorate of the Zakarpat region. Mary MARKUS to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about activities without permission to speak to the Radio Company RTK-Hust. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture on the issue of the gasification of the cultural structures of the Tomaspil district of Winnitsk. OBJECT YOURY to the Kiev City Head on the urgent resolution of the land conflict of citizens on the streets of Bestužev and Lesi Ukraine in Kiev. Maria MARKUS to Kharkiv City Head for the repair of an emergency residential building on the streets of Mironysacka, Kharkiv. The National Deputy to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the results of the Ibris audit in March 2002. National Deputy to the National Bank of Ukraine Tihypka for the analysis of the operations carried out by the Slovenian shareholder bank. National Deputy Mr. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for protesting the annulment or conduct in accordance with the Act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 26 December 2003 No. 2016 "On the Approval of the Position on the Advertising Council". Anatolysa by ORJAHOV Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial support for the reconstruction of the ZURUPIN AGRS and the construction of an interchangeable pipeline to the city of Gola Portan. Anatolysa TO THE ORGEHOV Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the independent material and technical condition of the Brillian Hospital in the district of Herson. Thus, we have seven minutes left for parliamentary announcements and appeals. Please, Alexeyev, get ready for Levtsun. Hinzburg? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u2	Dear comrades, Ginsburg, 161 constituency. Yesterday, a law on the reform of the Armed Forces of Ukraine was considered in the Supreme Council Hall on the eve of Soviet Army and Navy Day. And as bitter as it was to hear, there are still citizens of our great family who remember the glorious years of the existence and advancements of the Soviet Army, an army born in the 18th glorious revolutionary year of all the years of Soviet power, especially in the Great Homeland War. And as strange as that is today, I, my esteemed comrades, my esteemed colleagues, my friends, the veteran of the Great Homeland War, will allow you to warmly and warmly congratulate you on this wonderful holiday - the Day of the Soviet Army and the Navy. Wish you all happiness, health, success and a commitment to the realization of your hopes. On that day, traditionally with a sense of gratitude for the immodest feat of Soviet soldiers, flowers are placed on obelisks and eternal fire. May they remind them of the life of a soldier devoted to Rodin, the red mark of Victory, the international power of the Soviet order, the leadership of the Communist Party. The liberators were placed in the chronicle of the Great Homeland War, pages beyond the control of time. But then, especially after switching machines to plows and shovels, you, the respected veterans, the blood-molels, without falling asleep or eating, revived the wounds of your native land. They rebuilt cities and villages, planted new gardens, and cared for orphans. It was another feat requiring dedication, heroism, but you stood here. You have handed over to your children and grandchildren a rich nation, a peaceful, respectable family throughout the world whose freedom you have been willing to lay down your lives. You have a high sense of responsibility for everyone in your family, belonging to a great people, internationalism, patriotism, willingness to come to the aid of a companion, and, on a high level of human name, to pass that title with dignity. Today, from the Communist Party of Ukraine, allow me to congratulate you all on this holiday and wish you happiness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u3	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. Please, National Deputy Levtsun. Get ready, Buttercup. There's no lions? Then, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u4	Please give the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u5	Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u6	Matvienko Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear fellow national MPs. I would like to use these three minutes today to address you and turn to the leadership of the Supreme Council. Last day convinced me more than ever that it was necessary to do so. Julia Timoshenko's block and our Republican Party group are seriously concerned about what is happening today in the Supreme Council Hall. Yesterday's entire vote showed that the Supreme Council is becoming more and more an aggressive assensor of banking policy and is no longer a single entity, a branch of power. We need to understand that if the Supreme Council does not become an autonomous branch of the higher legislative body of our authority, we will fall far further into the pit that we are in today. And it is clear that Ukraine is becoming increasingly despised today that is largely explained by the fact that we have been turned into just players today, not politicians. The faction apologizes to the faction of Communists and those who supported Herson and Ternopolis yesterday is indeed a regrettable mistake, but we do not understand why we have turned ourselves into haters and mistrusters today by organizing or demonstrating organized authority. The fact that the Supreme Council is experiencing such a level of mutual mistrust today has not yet been found in the walls of this Parliament. I can give a number of other examples, such as yesterday’s vote on Winnitz. Only as a result of such mutual aggression will a city of 300 thousand be blameless, and the agony of mistrust suffers. The same thing, I want to inform you what's going on with the law changes to the Constitution on local self-government. You all know that local self - government today needs to be reformed. There will never be real power unless we have real local self-government. Each of you is approached by local authorities. The Constitution opens the way for its reform. The Constitutional Special Commission is convened twice by the Head of the Supreme Council and no representatives of the Bolshevik faction appear. Not because they don't want to come here, but because they're not allowed to come. They're not allowed to come from Bank because the bank needs blackmail today. I believe, Adam Ivanovich, and I appeal to you that we are in an urgent need to make general congregations because factions leaders have been sold today, representing the Bolsheviks of the Bank and manipulating the behavior of many national MPs, People’s deputies do not know what is being done behind their backs, as they are being set up. We already have bad examples, including in Germany. Let's stop the disgrace of Ukraine. I'd like to take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u7	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. On February 3, there were already MPs’ congregations, and we can hold on March 3. Please, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u8	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Ukraine’s bourgeois authorities continue to attack the rights of workers. Following pension fraud, lowering the minimum wage, rising prices for bread and other food and necessities, local government authorities and self-governance everywhere began to dramatically increase housing and utilities tariffs. This is against the background of the statements made by the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine that there is no basis for the increase in tariffs and that it is not recommended for the heads of the Regions to do so. This is also confirmed by the recent assurance by the first Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine about the persistence of electricity prices and gas for municipal consumers by the end of this year. Things are different in places. In Montenegro, from January 1, 2004, the cost of water supply and water supply increased by one and a half times, and the tariffs for heat and heating water increased from February 1 to February 1st by more than 40 percent. The order in this matter was signed by the Head of the Authority, who is the coordinator of the Medvedchuk district organization. As in the fall of last year, local organizations of the Communist Party of Ukraine have emerged to protect the rights of black people as they did during the win-win campaign "Protect the Veterans". The Communist initiative of January 22 was followed by the first stage of a protest against the rise in cold water tariffs. At the request of its participants, the Chernigiv Mesquikonka met the challenge of giving an answer that justified the rise of tariffs in electricity and gas prices. So the deputy Minpalevenergo said, "There will be no growth, and there will be no growth." This is the face of the local authorities. The Communists urged the people of Chernigov to participate on February 13 in the second stage of the protest against rising water and heat tariffs. About two thousand nuns came to the walls of the abbey. Their requirements are to convene an emergency session of district and city councils to cancel the authority of the head of the government and of the miscreants to raise tariffs and to express mistrust to the heads of those authorities. The same was true of the walls of the Mesquikonkam, which was later stung by protestors led by Communists and socialists. If the authorities do not reconsider and cancel the tariff, the third stage of the protest, already with elements of civil disobedience, will take place at the initiative of Montenegro’s City Company, Ukraine, on February 27, this year. Three columns of protestors at 13 hours 30 minutes from Desnian and Novozavodski Rajvikonkoms, a passerby factory called "Yellow hammer" will march on the streets of Chernigov to the district government, where 15 hours will be told to the head and its officials everything they think about them and the bourgeois authorities. I'm talking to the countrymen: don't sit in your homes on February 27th, and go along with the communists at the government and claim your legal rights. Only with the Communist Party of Ukraine will the people of Ukraine constitutionally remove the bourgeoisie from power and establish their Soviet power in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 30 minutes are over. Today we are discussing issues of order. You have a list of questions to consider. Dear colleagues, once again, we have 30 minutes on Friday to announce requests, applications, and suggestions. Regrettably, the announcement of questions eats up the lion’s share all the time. So please regulate for yourself. Fewer questions -- there'll be more speeches then. The question is: A 2003 report by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. The committee proposes such an order of inquiry, rules of procedure: 10 minutes for the report and 5 minutes for the answers, 10 minutes for the report and 5 minutes for the questions and 15 minutes for the discussion. So we have to invest in 45 minutes -- given by the rule. I invite you to speak to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Boris Ivanovich Holod, 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 12 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting", we present a report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a constitutional, permanent government body for 2003. To begin with, a few introductory remarks. First. The report covers the status of all basic tasks defined in article 2 of the National Council Act, a total of about three decades, unfortunately, for objective reasons, first of all, substantial underfunding, some of them are not implemented for which the National Council makes observations and drafts of the 2003 report. Secondly, for the first time, a document such as the annual report has been added to the state register of Ukrainian television organizations, which is covered by article 25 of the National Council Act. At the time of reporting, 1,052 television radio organizations in our country were added to the state register. And you, the distinguished national MPs, have been able to get data on all the heat and radio organizations in our country from the founders to a specific list of TV channels and radio frequencies that these radio companies have been given to use under the license. This annual report was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine precisely within the time limit set by law until November 1, 2003. So for three and a half months, the national deputies were able to get to know the report in detail. So I'm not going to stop at all the details of the report, I'm just going to point out the most important trends. So directly on the main aspects of the activities of the National Council in 2003. The first feature of the regulator’s activities during this period, which was clearly reflected in the report, was the completion of the main licensing of broadcasting channels and radio frequencies. This allowed for a clear structure of Ukraine’s telephony by means of forms and methods of speech in general. In particular, there are now 11 national television networks and 14 such radio networks in Ukraine. In summary, the majority of the population of Ukraine, except for local television and radio stations, have the opportunity to receive seven or more of the capital radio programmes. But really, a lot of programming from up to 80 channels gives viewers cable television. During the reporting year, the National Council has licensed more than 200 cable networks, the same as in the last nine years of the work of our regulatory body. In view of the fact that broadcasting licenses are issued as a minimum, for seven years, and for national and networked speakers for ten years, for so many cables, the next peak of the license will be for 2010-2012. So the domestic radio space has acquired such a license strength that without any shocks or cataclysms it can function for at least four or five years to come. Next. In addition to licensing, the National Council in the reporting period has become increasingly focused on monitoring and analysis functions in order to meet the requirements of legislation and licensing by tele-organizations. Such a requirement was made by the Supreme Council’s decision in the previous 2002 report, and the National Council directed such efforts and directions during that period to comply with the Supreme Council’s decision. This is where the National Council considers the introduction of a screen system, visual markings in Ukraine to identify audiences for films, series and broadcasts in different categories. The purpose of this action is, first of all, to warn parents of the insignificance of viewing children of individual cinematographic works that are not appropriate for certain age groups of content. The National Council finally made sure that all national, networking and local channels would introduce such markings. In fact, in only 15 countries in Europe, we have a similar mechanism of screened visual markings and work to clean up Ukrainian television from visual dirt, violence, terror, pornography, we are now improving and strengthening, based on the position recently adopted by the Law for the Protection of Social Morality. In general, it's about expanding control over the activities of the radio organization. Are there few other directions that we have identified as leading, compliance with the terms of advertising, the criteria for the introduction of programs in the national language, the content of the national software product in the filling of television channels, etc. Under the expansion of the control and analysis base, we were finally able to build up a serious and organizational base. Since this year, the National Council has set up a special monitoring service for which experts are selected. We hope that eventually the Cabinet of Ministers will be executed, and for the first time in ten years, the National Council will receive a room that is suitable for the full-scale deployment of the regulator's work. And first of all, I want to thank all the people's deputies for contributing to this work in previous reports, which is being resolved positively today. And for the rest. Taking the opportunity to speak from this high rostrum, to directly address you, legislators, honourable national deputies, I request: The Television and Radio Act was 10 years old, the National Council Act was nearly seven years old. Of course, the timing of the violent development of television, radio talk, needs to be reviewed and significantly improved in electronic media legislation. Now this process is going through and it's going. But improve legal standards, do not be impatient with the urgency, the consensuality of the forms of imprecise authority, and so forth. So we would ask you in this room, by addressing you, to enact a basic, basic law, the TV law, radio talk, and on the basis of this basic law, then all the other laws, including the National Council Act. Dear National Deputies! My colleagues and I, the members of the National Council who are present here, hope that today’s discussion of the annual report, your suggestions and critical comments, and we will take them into account, help to improve and improve the work of the National Council. I ask you to take part in the discussion of the report and make the appropriate decisions on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u11	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich, for the intelligence. Sign up for questions. Five minutes. Please explain. Please, Squirrel, follow him Bitchkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u12	I, Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194 constituency, Hmelnichtina, People's Landing. I'd like, there's this program, there's all the possibilities, let's say, to do this program. But I would like to ask you a question. Please tell me when on television, Ukraine will stop on all channels instead of showing the people what it wants, filling them with such programs that people turn off television and don't want to watch it. Why do such programs come through? Please tell me that there are no contests, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear national deputies, of course, today 1,100 radio organizations in our country, have different programs, a different meaningful part. But the National Council is really directing its efforts first of all so that on the national channels, on the regional and local channels, there is a meaningful software filling in such a way that it corresponds to today’s level. We can't talk about the fact that the National Council over the past year has heard more than 30 tele-organizations about the fulfilment of the terms of the license and the non-execution or lack of execution. So we're trying to make it fit. But it still depends a lot on the staffing situation, on other things that don't just depend on the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Bull. He's behind him, School. Bishkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u15	Bulls of Sergei, 25 constituency, Yellow, city of Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Boris Ivanovich, as we know, there are several types of television distribution: air, cable, air and cable, satellite. What proportions of these are typical of speaking in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u16	On this point, I have to say that, in fact, in 10 years of the National Council, all directions are: both air and cable and cable and satellite and conductive speech -- we are building up, as it were, in full volume. But lately, and this in the report we've given this kind of material, more prerogatives will be given to air-cable and cable networks. It's a perspective, it's a development, it's that Europe went to other countries, cable networks. There's going to be saturation and software, and a meaningful part of the cable network, and the National Council, and all the structures that have to control this filling, will be more meaningful.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u17	Please, School. After him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u18	Dear Boris Ivanovich, do you consider the decision of the National Council to be legitimate after the eighth of September to be signed by all members of the National Council, not by the head and the responsible secretary, as required by article 12 of the Nakrad Act, since eight members of the important constitutional body still cannot select a responsible secretary from among their members? You sometimes do an analogy of your activities with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so you should know that the only legislative body of the state in Ukraine makes decisions in a collegiate manner, and it signs them according to the legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not 450 national deputies. This is the first procedural norm, which is a legal requirement: to draw up documents on the basis of legislation. That is why we feel that this is wrong for you and for the people’s deputies, Karmazin. And now, Adam Ivanovich, to you, literally a few minutes. We were given 51 pages of the report. Passed in October -- handed out this morning. Is it possible for a national MP to read the 51 - page report of the National Council in 15 minutes? Take note of the Secretariat. I understand that the National Deputies are preventing the Secretariat from working, but, nevertheless, sometimes so be cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u20	Thank you. Indeed, the law of the 36th article states that the decision of the National Council is taken if the protocol with this decision has been signed in the course of the session of all members of the National Council who took part in the vote. But the law also prescribes a standard, if a statement is made and accepted, it is signed by the head, the responsible secretary. Unfortunately, we've had such a conflict that the first election of the responsible secretary, we haven't quite finished it yet, because it worked out that I'm not going to speak there in violation of actual legislation, not in violation, but we've agreed with the members of the National Council that we're going to put this question to the vote again and we're going to choose the responsible secretary. Thank you. On the second question, Mr. School, it's not for the National Council. We filed a report by November 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u21	Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u22	Thank you, Shibko, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dneproperty. Boris Ivanovich, I'm not going to ask you stupid questions like when we're going to have a content in your department and when there's actually a filling of the fact that there weren't any scarecrows in our broadcasts. I'm going to ask you two specific questions that you can answer, because you don't know how to answer them, they don't depend on you. Please tell me, did the Onix radio really get radios without a competition in nearly 10 cities? Because there are rumors that your son works there and it was on an uncomputed basis. That's the first one. Therefore, give an answer to all, that everyone may hear. And the second. Please tell me what you just said about cable television in your own time. So why is it that today, without agreement with those who have signed the agreement, there is almost three times the pay for this, without even knowing the subscribers themselves. Are you in charge of this process or not? What I have to say to people who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u23	You mean in Kiev? In Kiev. Thank you. Onics. Dear Mr. Vitalia, you know me very well and I know you very well. Don't use rumors. My son's not there, he's not there, he's not there, he's not there, he's not there, he's not there, he's not there. Yes, thank you. On cable television, the National Council regulates all issues on cable television other than the costs it pays for subscribers. This solves the matter either by local authority or by local authority or by a cable network operator. We don't have any rules in the actual legislation to control this National Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u24	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich, for the clear, concise answers. Have a seat, please. And for you, Vasil Jakovic, prepare a draft law. So that we can regulate whether the body regulates these prices. Please report to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u25	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, three common strokes to a situation that changed over the year after we listened to the National Council and then specifically to the reports. The first thing that I think is important to say is that, as of today, the overall structure, content and nature of information policy in Ukraine has become so crystallized, it's become clear that then it becomes clear that the role of such bodies, for example, in the Constitution is extremely important and influential, and in fact, they play enough secondary roles because, once again, the general content and outlook of information policy in Ukraine are defined in other offices and other people. If we look at statistics today, we will see that unfortunately, when it comes to television space, the situation has worsened in a year. Let's say we analyze all the national channels, we'll see that we have channels that have decided, practically, to give up the social function, and today, on the general quota of programs on all national channels, children's programs make up one percent. Knowledge programs make up 3.3 percent, while art films have reached 60 percent and entertainment shows 11 percent if entertainment with music and sports combined it turns out to be 20 plus 60 percent, 80 percent of us have entertainment programs, 80 percent of us have entertainment programs, and the rest of us go to cognitive functions one and a half percent or two percent. So I've already talked about on a number of occasions that, in principle, the National Council is able to control the programming concepts of channels and unfortunately, we're not expecting any serious warning of a channel that, like "1+1" registered as a social channel, for society, and today is a completely classic entertainment channel, right, except for information programs that engage in the discrediting of specific politicians, it's probably hard to call it entertainment. The FM radio space situation has become even worse in my mind, and if this is what the television council is trying to do, even if it's really trying to talk about problems, then what happened in FM in the range is I'm calling total chances, speaking of, in the words "Shanson," as you can understand it, there's no relation, because, in fact, normal "Shanson" can be listened to, and it's about the fact that, today, in the FM range, there's such a rabbit muck in the FM range, if you look at the ratings, today's "Shanson" we have the first radio in the territory of Ukraine, and I'm wondering why no local government is talking about it, no one is talking about it. I mean, it's not that we know how to make contracts with taxis to just put "Shanson" in there for money, so that Ukrainian people can be trained, I understand, of course, if the Prime Minister has the crimes and the experience of the colony there, the Head of Administration has a trial and has the experience of prison practice, but that doesn't mean that the entire nation should live, as it were, in zone style and listen to this muck. So I wonder why the National Council has so far not stopped this baronization, which means I haven’t figured out who issued the licenses in the regions, how it works. Why are standards being violated? The next problem is very important, structural or institutional. Today, I'm going to say tough things, I think the Nacra of that status has exhausted itself. So we need to talk today about absolute logic and the status of the National Council. Today, the National Council is operating in such a regime -- it's the head of the National Council, it's the National Council's apparatus, and it's its own National Council of National Council members, which we also appoint. What's going on? This is how it happens. There are four Supreme Councils, there are four Presidents. As soon as the National Council, as an organ, begins to do some normal things, four Presidents are immediately subject to very specific requirements. For example, the National Council supported our disclosure decree and obliged the First National Channel to carry out a full - scale decision. On the following day a decree was issued for the dismissal of two members of the National Council: Alexander Martinenko and Yuri Plazuka of the presidential quarter. So there was a very clear signal. If you don't vote like that, you're fired. I mean, without the ability to form the National Council in a way that is independent, we're actually losing the ability to control or influence the information space completely. It would, of course, be strategically right for the constitutional reform in Ukraine to think about it and it would be right for the National Council to be fully formed by the Supreme Council and formed for four years without a rotation of liberation. But since the Constitution has a four-year rule for the President, four years for the Supreme Council, of course, has to do something different in this situation. And we've proposed a new edition of the Nacradu Act on TV and radio talk, which provides for the next scheme. The National Council becomes a collegiate body, where all issues are resolved exclusively at the National Council. We've written down very clear standards that don't allow, for example, a representative of the Apparatus or a head of the National Council, for example, to forget to sign a document, and it's going to be in Nacrad for a few months. This is very clear: the decision was made, in a few days it went away, and the radio organization got it. The President, after appointing his four, cannot release or replace a member of the National Council for four years, as does the Supreme Council. Then I think the situation will change in principle. Because if you analyze today, for example, how the licenses were issued in 2003. It seems that the National Council, according to appropriate instructions, has apparently been working on the construction of two television companies: My dad and Ukraine. For these radio companies, frequencies were calculated, and money was found for these companies. For example, last year, TET was licensed almost as much as the ICT, the New, the STB and the NBM combined. A one-way channel, which raises a question. I was trying to figure out, well, in short, the position was the following, a member of the Nacrada said, "If you vote against Tate, you vote against the President." I don't know what kind of addiction between Igor Surkis and President Leonid Kuchma, but this formula was put in place and everyone understood, if they didn't give a TET license, they would just be released from the National Council, I mean the Presidential Four. So it happened that two channels of "Ukraine" and "TET" the National Council dedicated its work in 2003. At a time when, again, I say, we will not be rested, of course, of a meaningful fulfillment. Today, the National Council has never considered the issue of violations of the Advertising Law. We've been able to ask this question hard enough on the committee for the State Committee on Consumer Information Control, today against the vast majority of the channels are being tried for violating the Advertising Law in the field of alcohol, but, well, what's the interesting situation? I'm talking to those who control the channels. They say that, well, double stellars, i.e. the people are very clear. "1+1" tells this State Committee that the guys, rest. So, after us, serious people can be allowed not to comply with this legislation. They don't send people to court, they don't give documents to an authority that's authorized to keep an eye on advertising. Now they're driving alcohol through the program, and they're absolutely convinced that neither the Nacrad nor the State Committee will come to them to protect the interests of consumer information. Yeah, to a point like our own First National for budget money. Full-time alcohol, medical supplies. I told Polichku to take care of the committee. The first national drug ad does not adhere to any law. And then if we look at the drugs that brought them in, how they were consumed, then I'd like to see how the budget on this channel is actually deceiving people for selling drugs in Ukraine. If these trials produce any results, and I hope so. That they're going to produce some kind of result, theoretically, we can stop this situation. The other way out is to just change the Advertising Act and completely ban the advertising of alcohol day and night because we don't have another way out if the radio organizations don't want to make the decisions we're talking about. Another problem is the status and possible logic of the National Council. I think we need to get out of today's need for the National Council, without waiting for the Supreme Council to approve the new edition of the National Television and Radio Council Act to go into completely specific things, it has re-examined itself, under which the programming concept has been issued to specific television channels, specific radio organizations, will create a normal system of understanding that if the channel has been licensed to an environmental channel, it should work, not -- a warning and a ban. Unfortunately, there is no such situation today. So I would like us to go back together to the National Council as an influential strong constitutional body and not come from any structure and tell the members of the National Council that this channel is intact, and this channel can be criticized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Please. Oh, the forest of hands. Sign up. Please. Let's get this out Five minutes. Dry, followed by Semenyuk. But I can't see her. Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich! Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. In addition to the findings of known facts, in addition to the burning of passions, the spreading of ideas, gossip, and the use of your position of head of the committee in your political games. I have a question for you as specific as the head of the committee. You must control the activities of the Nakrad. What assistance at the legislative level you're providing to the National Council in improving the activities of Ukraine's local, regional state broadcasters, who today have extremely real, concrete and difficult problems -- personnel, finance and material and technical. And I'm asking you so much, I think the President might not even know about the existence of T.T. Radio. Don't mention the scheming and don't spread a rumor from the Supreme Council's rostrum: "Come, you guys, rest." This is insolent for the Head of the Parliamentary Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u28	Mr. Jaroslav, I advise you to contact the leader of your party Victor Medvedczuk, he will give you a collection of Ukrainian legislation on information policy, and I can give you a free gift. You're going to read about who's doing district television. The Committee of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council have nothing to do with district television organizations. The State Committee on Television and Radio is fully responsible for these structures, along with district administrations. When I convinced you in the session room, including the adoption of the Television and Radio Act, according to which district broadcasters and the National Broadcasting Company should answer to the Supreme Council, you didn't support me. Today, it is accountable to government and district administrations. That's why there's a tape coming from your cousins, an alternative to your political power, where the Dark Ones from the President's Office come in. And they. instructions only to the President's Administration. What can we explain to them? They are completely incorporated into the executive system. As far as commercials are concerned. Even Nakrad can't control them. The board of directors works with commercial private television companies. As for insinuations. If, Mr. Jaroslav, you think I've offended the T.E.T. or the President of Ukraine. Go to the court in accordance with the legislation, and I'm ready to prove to you and show you how your own TET company works for the Ukrainian people along with the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u29	Please, Nadragha, follow him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u30	Dear Nikolai Vladimirovic, please tell us that today there is a very active discussion on the subject of district television companies in a difficult situation. Well, the rapporteur here told your predecessor, not once. I am interested in the fact that, at your meeting of the Committee, you have not once discussed this topic with the regional radio companies, the events and the results on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u31	The result, I hope, will be soon. The commission of inquiry for the activities of the National Television Company will be closed. District radio companies are, in fact, largely components of the National Television Company in terms of financing and logic of their relationship. I'll give you figures on why and I'll show you why the regional radio companies today are, I absolutely agree with you, in the most neglected state in social, economic. I'm ready to show you who's stealing money, where they're stealing money. Our analysis shows, for example, the National Television Company on the frontal official advertisements that come to all the advertising agencies. For example. In December, I sold commercials worth over $2 million. She really showed us this amount, which means that they sold 99 percent discounts. I mean, I don't think we have any country in the world where it's declared, one percent of the amount sold. We have these numbers in other activities. And the national television company in the district television company came out with one clear and understood the logic of budget funding and control. We offered because of the government’s order. In a government order for people, for copyright programs, for capital construction, and so on. Today, the heads of the district radio companies are going to John Chiju and they're going to the governor and they're asking -- give us a penny so we don't die. We want them not to go to people like that. And the budget was very clear about what they existed for. That's why we're working on it, and in the near future you'll see the results of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u32	Please, Manchulenka. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I ask you to give me a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u33	George Manchulenko, "Our Ukraine." Please give the floor to your colleague Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u34	Silent microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u35	Thank you. Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! The information given tells us that this body is a rudimentary National Council on Radio and Television. I don't see the relevance of its existence. If it doesn't affect information policy in the state, national government policy. I think we need to ask, why does it exist? If she's only doing one thing, it's a security group. A group of interests of those who have profits, because according to your logic, all of this needs to be submitted to the Attorney General's Office. And is it appropriate for us to do this or should we do it individually? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u36	I think so. I agree with the plan that in such a status and with such a job, the Nakrad has exhausted itself. But that doesn't mean she shouldn't be. What's more, I think it should become an independent, more influential college body, because then the State Committee on Television and Radio is going to remain, which is completely controlled, which is not going to affect anything. My approach is to strengthen the status, get it out of the hands of specific people, such as the President's Office or the government, and give it a chance. I've already said, ideally, of course, that the Supreme Council should be fully composed of Nakrada for four years. But in today's situation, I think if we go on the road now to pick four years without rotations and give Nakradi the opportunity to work, the results will be. And I think that these results will give us the opportunity to make a qualitative change in the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u37	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, we have nine minutes 47 seconds left. So it's for discussion then. Dear colleagues, please have 10 minutes to discuss. Puzakov, followed by Yavorowski. Unfortunately, 45 minutes to discuss the matter. I announced 15, but from these five minutes, the reporters have been taken away. Don't tell me, please! Slippery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u38	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, we would like to hear a thorough analysis of Ukraine’s current state of television and radio talk. There's something to talk about. Rather than just hearing reports of measures that seem to have been taken to develop and improve the television’s information space. When Ukraine faces problems that threaten its information security and international reputation today, such a report by the National Council should not satisfy us, for the first time, in accordance with article 19 of the Ukrainian National Broadcasting Council Act, it is obliged to coordinate the development of a television information space concept, to ensure its implementation, which should reflect an officially accepted system of views on the development of Ukraine's information space. Secondly, is the National Council working to improve national television broadcasting, to increase the content and artistic level of television broadcasting? Thirdly, is the National Council ready for the presidential election campaign, because we all felt the negative consequences of not having it in 1999, when many radio companies found themselves violating established pre-election policy? Today, the National Council has not only failed to implement the provisions of the Law on the Order of Enlightenment of Local Self-Government Authorities, but has also withdrawn itself from placing a public order to inform society about the activities of the Supreme Council on the channels of the National Television Company of Ukraine. Today, it is disturbing that the domestic air is becoming more and more filled with foreign channels. The situation was also difficult in the advertising market. In view of the situation in Ukraine’s television - speaking economy, a number of laws on advertising and on television and radio communication need to be reviewed immediately. The National Council, taking into account the comments made, should take a decisive course towards achieving major transformations in the radio information field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u40	Thank you, Yavorowski, for preparing Kozachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u41	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkawa, Lvivščina Vektor Yuszczenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Parliamentarians! Dear voters! I have very little time to say what hurts. We should make it clear that in recent decades Ukrainian society has been abandoned in a social, spiritual, intellectual, moral and cultural way, to a level that is actually already a disaster. That is the kind of society that would like to see today’s presidential team. Because, as head of the Freedom of Speech Committee, for the first time, I can state from this rostrum, I have no claim to Mr. cold. He's the head of the National Council who wants to see him at the Bank, and so we don't make him talk like that. Because even the former press secretary of President Martinenko, who took a very cautious step, you know a little bit about how he was brilliantly released. Because, once again, let's just use this time to either say what hurts. I'm because I don't have anything on TV today or on the radio to give my position on what's going on around the National Writer Association, and I say here, the authorities have seen the writer's association as the last pledge and democracy and the national spirit. It had to be destroyed. They combed through all the district - based organizations of opposition and broke them with neither money nor bribes. Because of this, they went through the courts by gathering a handful of little literary failures, among which you will find neither Paul the Zagreber, nor Dmitry the Pavlitz, nor John the Drach, nor Paul the Silent, nor Lena Costenko, there are unknown people who gathered under the bush and lead them through the courts in order to crush, break down to the end the National Association of Writers. There was, again, an unprecedented court yesterday, where the media were banned from filming a closed court over the National Writer Association, where the judge rejected any argument. He seems to have come up with a decision to make. As a result, I appeal to all members of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers from this rostrum. Colleagues! We can be crushed, and the National Writer Association can be destroyed entirely by the courts. As a result, on the following Saturday, February 29, we hold an emergency assembly that is invited by all members of the National Writers ’ Association. If we don't protect ourselves, no one will protect us. I'm telling you again. I invite everyone to Kiev, we'll get together here and solve our problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u42	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. And Boris Illich is not there. Well, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u43	I'm sorry. But I forgot the name of a beautiful Ukrainian poet, although we are in different political powers, but the beautiful poet Boris Olijnik is not there either.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u44	Please, Cossack. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u45	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The Governing Council has already heard the report of the Nacradia on television and radio talk for the second time. Sadly, it may be noted that little has changed during this time. As before, we don't have a major -- we don't have a national concept of radio space development. On the first reading, the Supreme Council adopted an appropriate parliamentary bill. And Nakrad, unfortunately, moved away from working on the concept. As a result, today we have an absolute lack of systematic work on the information security of the state, especially in the border areas. The information expansion of neighbouring languages has a negative impact on the formation of national social consciousness. This should include absolute inconsistencies in the introduction of the Ukrainian language. As before, Nazrad has little effect on social morality through the administration of language programming. Unregulated is the problem of cable speech, the quality of the signal, and the problem of tariffs. As in the past, the lack of information systems in rural areas has left rural residents in an almost complete information and cultural vacuum. The same unresolved problems remain in cooperation with the State Department. This includes calculations of new frequencies, double licensing, and networking, and tariff sorting. In short, the car and now there. And that, in my opinion, is not the problem of Nakradah as an organ. I often watch Nakrad's work from the inside. So I can say that the positive thing that the National Council is doing, I'm not going to stop at it, is, thanks to the work of the Nacraada members, especially its parliamentary four. And the problems that are, in my opinion, problems are the effectiveness of the leadership of this important body. This is the result of the actual usurpation of power in Nacrad by her head, Boris Ivanovich Holod. The concentration of power in the hands of the manager does not always produce bad results, but it is often very positive. In this case, unfortunately, it's not. And although Boris Ivanovich, who has spent his entire life doing what I now think is fashionable, management, and before working in Nacrad, he's also been learning this art, but he's, in my opinion, demonstrating his skills only in critical moments. At least take a stand against the appointment of Secretary Nakrada under the law, which would limit his absoluteism. Or, let's say, a moment of consideration in the Supreme Council of the National Council Bill. It is known that the bill clearly regulates the rights and duties of Nacrada’s head, which can result in substantial restrictions on the head’s volunteerism. If we generalize the situation, we have a state policy crisis in the field of radio broadcasting as a result of a crisis in the administration of the National Broadcasting Board. It's known that the footage solves everything, especially in management. It's probably time to deal with the frame problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u46	Thank you, please. There's no bug. Next Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I would like to ask a question: Is there in the National Council of Ukraine in general on television and radio? And I conclude that she's not there because she's acting today as a council to the President or to some extent even in the Cabinet of Ministers and she's doing the will of these two branches of power -- executive and, in particular, the President. I'm asking myself this question today: Who's to blame when a court order is being filed for refracting a license from a radio or a television channel? Well, let's say a television channel called 5 Channel, who's to blame for issuing a violation license. Because it is up to me not to leave the licenses of such channels, and it should be the responsibility of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. I'd like to ask you a question about state television at the local level or about radio companies in the district. I don't understand why in the last few days, television companies, especially in the Gitomir region, have started dating, not to "UT-1" as they did, but to "UT-2." For example, the explanation in the Gitomir region is very simple: the UT-1 coverage in the area is within 20 percent. And they're looking at the city of Zitomiri, Berdichev, Novograd-Wolinski. Areas don't look, and that's to leave people's minds at the polls today, and they're still going to have to give local MPs their positions under the Elections Act, and they're going to have to put candidates on TV for a while, and they're going to have to leave them with that possibility. I would like to give you examples of this when in the northern regions of the Žitomir region people were virtually left to the language of the district television company, there on a question in the villages, “Who is the President of Ukraine?” most people reply that “the father of Lukashenko”. I think about it a lot, and that's because people in the northern districts of the Zitomir region watch more Belarusian television than our Ukrainian television. And this would require the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio, to award a special prize for such success. So I agree here and with Mr. Tomenck in this respect that the approach of the Supreme Council and the whole of our legislation should fundamentally change to the formation of the National Council for Broadcasting and Broadcasting and to its functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u48	Thank you. One minute, Boris Ivanovich, and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! As members of the National Council, we thank you for discussing this vital issue today. A few words I would like to say about things that today and not just today are the fourth report of the National Council. We can't do anything other than actual legislation, article 14 on licensing. And Mikola Volodymyrovich knows both "TET" and "ISTV" and "Ukraine" and other television companies, more than 500 of them today, licenseing channels of language that to obtain a license for the right to use channels, not frequencies, channels. The statement came -- we're looking at it. Whoever it is, "Tate," "Ukraine", "ICTV", "NBM" is any company, but only on application, there can be no one else. The other thing that we need to control is we've now stepped up on Monday, and on Wednesday we're going to make decisions about filling national channels. Here's the problem. And we're going to ask that question. As far as district state broadcasters are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Council has made a decision in such a way that 2004 is the development of local language so that, as stated in the law, fifty-fifty is national and local, that is what we will follow, and we will pursue such policies. It's the State Radio Company, it's the local language. But they must be filled with local programs and local language. As far as Mr. Puzakov, the national deputy of Puzakov, said, would like to hear the analysis. Ladies and gentlemen, we've given you three and a half months' worth of material on 200 pages. The analysis is complete. If we understand what the remark is. And they're such remarks and Alexy Alexiyovich Kozachenko, he's almost a member of the National Council, we'll make all the remarks that have been made in the course of the discussion are accepted by the National Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, just a minute. Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, there was quite a critical conversation, but I wanted to emphasize once again that the National Council is made up of a four-man parliament and a four-man president. I want to say again that I think that Parliament has come out of a critical situation that has been on the National Council and the Quartet is working quite adequately, clearly. And that's why it's absolutely important for us to have the President act like the Supreme Council, who doesn't interfere with the National Council and allow their fourth to act professionally. Then we can take some steps toward greater independence of the National Council. And on the other hand, what I was trying to say today was that it was so historic that the Supreme Council finally appointed the fourth member of the National Council of the only woman in the history of the National Council of Tetian Jacob Lebedev. Today, just as she was in that position, I, for one, wanted to welcome her from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll finish. Let us thank the members of the National Council for participating in our discussion, listening to our critical comments, our wishes. To those who are very critical and say we don't have it at all. I'd like to remind you of Mikola Volodymyrovich's words, let's really not do them very dirty, because our cousin, dear four, is also there. As the head of the profile committee said, they think she's working successfully. So let's actually be more reasonable in what we say. Thanks for participating, we'll make decisions on the day of the vote. Question completed. So let's move on to the short-term discussion. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Licensing for Fumigation of Sub-Carrantine Materials and Objects, registration number 4340, is being considered. Short-term, three minutes, please. First Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Sergei Ivanovich Melnik When will we learn to use our words? Silence, where is he?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on licensing activities for fumigation of sub-carrantine materials and objects is prepared to implement the Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants. [[dysgeusia]] According to article 7, paragraph 12, under quarantine materials and objects crossing the state border of Ukraine have the right to carry out, in addition to the Fumigation Teams of the State Department of Quarantine Plants of Ukraine, other economic operators. In view of the fact that, since January 1, 2004, the law has entered into force, in order to establish clear control by the State authorities over the fumigate of sub-penal materials and the licensing of operators, we ask the distinguished national deputies to support the offer of the Cabinet of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine for the licensing of work to decontaminate sub-carrantine materials and objects if they are moved across the state border of Ukraine and quarantine zones. Taking into account the importance of this decision, the Cabinet of Ministers defined the bill as urgent for further consideration at the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u54	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Please report to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The need for the adoption of the bill was first implemented by the provisions adopted last April of the Law "After Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Plant Quarantine". They are intended to do fumigative work in various forms of farming and property. Previously, these activities were carried out exclusively by the Fumigation Teams of the State Plant Quarantine Service. Since other entities now have such a right, it is necessary to ensure that the licensing of fumigation activities is legally ensured in order to maintain State control over this important chain and to comply with its obligations to harmonise the EU’s legislation. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting considered the proposed bill and suggested that it be accepted as a basis for further development. Although, at the same time, we need to point out that there are major shortcomings in the bill: the main flaw is that the law does not clearly define the criteria that can be followed or, on the contrary, prohibit fumigation. But these inadequacies can be removed. The committee is asking for support and acceptance of this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Puzakov. There's a nigger behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u57	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The amendment to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity will allow for the establishment of clear control by the State authorities over the fumigation of sub-carrantine materials and objects, increase budgetary revenues on the basis of the licensing of operators and enable the implementation of state policies on plant quarantine issues. But it must also be taken into account that the fumigation of sub-carrantine materials and objects is an integral part of international agreements, and in the event of ineffective fumigation, the State’s quarantine service is responsible for the loss of simple means of transport, re-fumigation, for the intrusion of dangerous pests into the country’s territory, resulting in significant economic losses and loss of crops, for the loss of the competitiveness of production in the world market, and, accordingly, the image of the state, threats to national security and the national interests of Ukraine in the area of plant quarantine. It should also be noted that in the export of plant products, the quarantine service produces a health certificate that shows that the product is free of any harmful organisms. There is also a need to introduce a license to do fumigation work and to assign this type of farming activity to the competence of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Nigger. I can't see. Please, Karmazin. Behind him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency, Our Ukraine Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Two questions. First question. Is such a law necessary? That's the law you need. The other one. What else does the State need? I would like to use the presence of officials of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and the government to ask, "What do we need to avoid lobbying further on all the chemicals that are currently lobbying openly by the Ministry?" I was just wondering one question. March on the nose, we have to sow. Unique microwave technologies have been developed, which provide up to 50 percent of the crop in individual groups. I'm writing to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is now an agrarian policy that they don't want to apply, lobby the interests of those who import all these chemicals here, there's formal, abusive writings. What do you want those scientists who developed this from the West to bring in the technology? I've made another call to the President, to the Prime Minister for this matter, but I'm looking, and it's spring here, and we're going to be buying everything overseas again. So, Your Honor, I'd like us to do this systematically when we're asking questions about licensing. If the document is signed by the head of the government, should it think about whether there are other issues of licensing and changes around and not considering this law, then there is a separate law of Budjigan, then there is a separate law of Solomatin on licensing issues, and where is the system of approach of the government? Who prevents the government from doing so? So, honourable national deputies, I don't know how else to get through that wall of misunderstanding, that wall of treasury that exists. There's government funding, so what if we don't use new technologies, what else do we finance? I am in favour of this law, but it must be combined with other laws that will and will be dealt with on licensing issues. This is number 3318, 3366, and several other numbers are now registered in the last days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u60	Yes, thank you, the two “For” spoke. Melniczuk are you “for” or “against”? Mikhail Vasilovich, I understand what you want “for” but you will say “against”.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u61	I want to say yes, but on the condition that I do. Mikhailo Melniczuk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I personally take this bill seriously. Because if the state is really taking steps to put order on this issue, we, the parliamentarians, should help do so. And there should still be some kind of import order on our Ukrainian customs, which means those products, which are either seed materials, or others that are imported into Ukraine. There is no objection that the bill will be supported in the hall and, of course, after that means the Ministry of Agricultural Policy will do everything to put it in order. But I have one warning that under this legislative act, once this law has been passed and signed, the law will not be passed on to those enterprises that work today. I'm talking about collective farms that are running fumigation by themselves, by their own power, or by our elevators and so on, so on, so today we still understand that if they start licensing, not only will they go to enterprises that want to do it on the border, but inside the state, it's going to go to hundreds of thousands of carbians from those enterprises that are almost closing down today. Here is a warning, and in principle the bill must be supported. I will personally propose to the factions to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u62	Thank you. We do have a desire to go against this law. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I strongly oppose the adoption of such a law, and I want to explain why. Ordering the contamination of grains that are imported or exported from Ukraine does not mean introducing licences for those companies that will do so. Today there's a plant protection station at the Ministry of Agriculture, at MinAPC, as we call it, which is called to control these jobs. If, I'd like to tell you, dear colleagues, fumigation is an extremely profitable business, a profitable and profitable business. We have contracts today for the fumigation of the plant protection station with foreign firms that conduct this fumigation and the money is fumigating abroad. Who controls this business? You can give these examples, I wouldn't want to take up time with this. So, your honor, please tell me, what's the license for a fumigation? When there can be tens, two tens, one hundred units that have some technique, they have some experience that, in the framework of how it's supposed to be done, this work, and let them compete on the market with each other, who's better at fumigating. And whatever the elevator decides, the choice has to do with who to make the contract with. And let them do the job. No, licenses must be made in order to give these licences only according to their own and to clean up an extremely convenient business such as fumigated grain. I want to give you one example like this. Licenses were introduced today in the areas of washing cars carrying products. And what do the sansations do? They don't give them licenses, they give them licenses to companies that make their children or their relatives, and they give them licenses. Having no proper material base there, but all of them had to go to them. And please, there's a haircut, so to speak, money and all. That's what the license leads to. I understand the license when it comes to products abroad or we license something to a wagon there, other questions, but when it comes to such a frost that we're already going to be licensed at state level, we can't do that. We're destroying the market. And I'd like to. Who may not have understood this, dear colleagues, listen, please, and do not do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u64	Thank you. One minute, please, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I am grateful for those expressions. Which you said about that law, but it's clear that the vast majority of you support it. And it's the law that's set up to put order in this particular activity. Licensing is not usurping, it's bringing those who want to do this kind of activity into line with the rules of law and the requirements that we have in the state. The second question I wanted to comment on was the lobbying of poison chemicals imports. The Ministry doesn't deal with lobbying. But given that fumigants are not produced in Ukraine, they are actually imported today. And the third question about introducing new technologies in fumigation is, really, micro-wave technologies are interesting new ones, but they're not tested enough, they're not tested in our country. This question will be studied and, if we say it will be effective enough, it will certainly be applied. But there is no separate funding available for this kind of implementation in the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. Here we go to the draft Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences. Registration number 4055. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Reported by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Tótkin Vladimir Ivanovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft of the Ukrainian Law has been developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in connection with the establishment of the State Labour Inspectorate of the Department of State to oversee compliance with legislation on work and its territorial bodies. The drafting of the draft law provides for the inadequacy of the provisions of articles 188, marking 6 and 230, marked 1 of the Code on Administrative Offences, precisely in the name, the structures of the newly created bodies that exercise State oversight and control over compliance with labour legislation. The draft law provides for articles 188, marking 6 and 230, marking 1 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, to be reprinted. Especially. Article 188.6 provides for the failure of officials to comply with the law and the requirements of the bodies of a special authorized executive body with State oversight of compliance with legislation on work to eliminate violations of labour legislation. Or creating obstacles to the activities of these bodies, imposing a fine on officials from 10 to 14 untaxed minimum citizens' income. Article 230, marking one draft law, defines bodies and officials who have the right to deal with administrative offences and to impose administrative charges and to what extent. The adoption of the draft law does not require additional financial costs. Please accept the bill in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u68	Please, thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. He will report to the deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement and Law Enforcement. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legislative Law Enforcement has considered draft laws that have been passed on to us by the government, and there is no objection to the amendments to the Ukrainian Administrative Code on Administrative Offences. There's a little bit of an observation from our Science and Technology Administration. I think we can fix it in the second reading. They don't really matter. And now the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in its first reading as a basis. The account is concluded, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u70	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Military personnel are reporting. Have a seat, please. Short discussion procedure. Puzakov, followed by Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u71	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština My dear colleagues, regarding the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, I think that we can only agree on changes in the names of the newly created bodies that exercise State oversight and monitor compliance with labour legislation. With regard to the increase in the amount of fines, apart from creating socio-economic tensions, they cannot significantly affect the enforcement of the laws of officials, bodies of the socially authorized executive authority with a view to enforcing labour legislation. It would be better to create economic conditions in the state that would not lead to violations of labour legislation. There are many violations today, but only people remain silent because they fear that their owners are simply driven out of their busy jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Alessandrovska, behind her Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u73	Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. In support of this bill, I would like to draw attention to the fact that such measures will not fully address this problem. Because we understand what's going on: the work of people without work books in totally unacceptable, I would say even wild conditions, is in the eyes of the whole society. People are standing on trays in crossings. We have one in Harikov, and I would call it a clown, because it really fits that word, the Barbashov market. Massa, thousands of people are working, and I can't say a hundred percent, but I'm pretty sure that a lot of people work without jobs. I'd like to see at least one contract of employment that describes the porcine conditions in which these people work on our harkow "barabbaska". I am convinced that such an employment agreement cannot be in nature because it cannot be highly qualified, and there are people there -- former researchers, project workers, adjuvant institutions, and they are forced to work there today because there is tremendous unemployment. I therefore believe that in discussing this bill and supporting it, we must at the same time address the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the question of how the Ministry is going to overcome the enormous unemployment that has first hit people with high skills and forced them to go into these totally intolerable conditions, to go to work without workbooks, denying themselves the opportunity to obtain a job loss benefit on a temporary loss of health. We know that these people are deprived of the opportunity to receive a normal pension. How is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy going to address this fundamental issue? Because fines are fines, supervision is supervision, but unfortunately, we have the conditions under which a person goes to work without a workbook and goes to work in totally unbearable conditions. That is why I say once again: I support fines; I believe that surveillance must be tighter, but, at the same time, I draw the attention of the MPs to the fact that we, too, are obliged to do so in some way indirectly. We support a small business, so-called small business. We're doing the right thing by creating conditions for a single tax, and you and I may have been right about something when we were allowed to work without cash registers. But this already creates conditions where an unknown number of people in general are employed, an unknown number of traders and jobs where all these sales operations are carried out. That means we're creating conditions for recklessness. This is therefore the whole range of measures that exist in Ukraine: unemployment, job loss for highly qualified people, lack of actual public support to create new jobs for highly qualified people -- these are all conditions that enable people to profit from slavery. I call on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to address these problems and to address them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. After him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, look at this. This is a manipulative question -- making a change to one of the articles in the Codex -- we're looking at a full program. The question of the Odessa-Boda consortium was discussed on a short schedule, Adam Ivanovich. It's me to make the same approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u76	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, we are considering this under a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u77	Thank you, no less dear Adam Ivanovich. But I want us to have a complex approach even in this country. And so when we make one manipulative change to a code that was adopted in 1984, it's just a matter of disrespect for these legislators when Prime Minister Janukovic signs such papers himself. I'm going to Victor Fedorovich, "Victor Fedorovich, let me give you a no-counter very little." I need three hours, and you'll be the very literate prime minister who's always been in this country. But don't do it, don't mess up the legislative field like that, don't do it, please. Now, about the bill, if it's a good one. The Executive Authority was asked to change the name of the office, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and they are now writing an “authorized body”. Because they created it, and they called it the department. And you're the legislators, you're the laymen, you're changing the name, you've understood not the other way around, you're not the lawmaker, you're putting the law under the law, you're pushing the law under the authority of the executive. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand, this is, even the schoolboys understand that it's already called a frostbite. And all of these are confirmed, and order and all. Then we take the law, the so - called law, if we can call it the law, deals with failure to meet the requirements and create obstacles. Then write in the title that failure to meet legal requirements and create obstacles. Then set up the responsibility, and what, ready our society, so quickly it enriched you that you already put 14 non-taxable minimums a fine, but there was 9, a simple state inspector for seven could fine, and now for 12 rubies. So what do we do, reverend? And we say good law, normal law -- bad law, bad people giving it away. The Administrative Code needs to be changed, and I need you to excuse me and change the government. As for the Barabbasov market, or the market, his Barashov market owner would be sitting here in the hall, Mr. Feldman, that we don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u78	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, let's all vote together for changes to the Constitution and the legislative authority will be on top. Please, it's the bug from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u79	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear friends! I guess this law doesn't have to be applied to something that doesn't change anything. I think there's been some kind of mistake here on purpose. And I fully support Karmazin's position, which he said is why there's no other part here called "Creating Obstacles to the Activities of These Organs." And it's done on purpose because it's not written in this piece of legislation. It's more important than the first part. And I don't think we can support this bill until this part is written. And second of all, what I wanted to point out is that there's some kind of need to look at the grounding of the fines themselves, because we can't do anything with fines today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u80	Thank you. The question is closed, we will be determined on the day of the vote. We are going to consider the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on judicial militia units. Bill number 4053, we're looking at a reduced procedure. First Deputy Interior Minister Mikhailo Vasilovich Korniyenko will report, please, for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill is being tabled to regulate the existence of judicial police units. Special units of the police to ensure the safety of the judiciary personnel, law enforcement agencies, persons involved in criminal justice, members of their families and close relatives, and to protect the judicial institutions, have been established to implement the Ukrainian Laws on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities and to ensure the safety of persons involved in criminal proceedings. These laws were passed in 1993. Ukraine's state budget for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides for the maintenance of the judicial militia under a separate budget programme for 2004. A bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been drafted for the purpose of bringing Ukraine's Act on the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs into line with the requirements of current legislation for ensuring the activities of the Special Police Units of Ukraine. The adoption of this bill will result in the acquisition of the validity of subparagraph 1, paragraph 10 and paragraph 23 of the Act of 15 May 2003 on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine, and will allow for the interaction of several legislative acts that regulate the performance of the duties of the police in relation to the protection of judges, court officials, the security of the parties to the trial and the maintenance of law enforcement in the courts. The bill will require additional spending from the State budget of nearly 107 million dollars. In the case of adding the number of units to the boundary, that's almost 10,000 units, the number that's definitely going to be done in a step by step. The bill was considered by the government and approved for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u82	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, sit down, please. A member of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Maria Andriyevna Marcus, will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Colleagues, the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement, discussed a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Numbering of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The bill proposes to regulate the functioning of the judicial police departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine by law. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill on short notice and accept it as a whole as a law. Please support this bill, because you are already witnessing terrorism being transferred to the walls of the courts. The February 9th explosion in the Darnicki Court is a testimony that the courts still need protection, and they have already made threats to judges for their professional activities. The legal field in this part was incomplete. The rapporteur said that the adoption of the bill would practically remove this gap and allow for the creation of judicial police units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u84	Thank you, Maria. Honorable colleagues may be able to understand whether we will be discussing it? Let's do it, huh? Well, please, Puzakov and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The protection of judges, courts, and trial participants is essential, but this function is to be performed by trained personnel. Today, these images are in the IMF system, a local police unit that, after conducting the necessary research, can be asked of the above-mentioned functions, but that courts also have the status of local courts. In addition, the personnel of the State Security Service are being prepared to date. They would cost the State less financial costs, but with regard to liability, in this case there would be a mutual advantage, since the State’s security service also has a material responsibility to the protection. The last argument on the groundlessness of the introduction of a judicial police into the Ministry of Internal Affairs is that at the necessary cost of 100 million dollars, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been responsible for the implementation of the judicial police. Only 15 million dollars have been allocated for the maintenance of the miracle militia. That's right. This indicates that in this year the judicial police institution in the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs will not be able to prove its right and necessity to exist. But in further practice, it only confirms that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which will have a judicial police structure, will treat it as a function that is deliberately imposed on them and does not meet the actual task of the police. This will happen because there is no understanding of the order of submission in the full extent of either the head of the court or the head of the appropriate judicial administration, or the militia leadership that confirms the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, there's no school. Carmazine. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, the question that is now being raised is very difficult. It's not easy because of what's going on in court today. The public is silent about the loss of criminal cases, the intrusion into courts, and the threat to judges. The results of investigations are also hidden from society. I am in the Odessa region, which has suffered the most, saying that the two murders of the judges have not yet been torn apart. It's the murder of Vihrov, the murder of Tachaku. And no one really cares about that state. Killing last year is a little bit of an interesting thing. But, honourable national MPs, you have to think carefully about where to give these units, if that's a judicial police unit. There are different practices throughout the world. And so it's not a fact that this has to be added to the structure and the size of the IMF. Absolutely not a fact. There is a court administration today that works to ensure the work of the courts. What difference does it make who pays the money? But we should clearly see that this law is now in violation of part three of article 27 of the Code of Budgets, which states that laws that affect the formation of the income or expenditure portion of the budget should be officially published by 15 August of the year ahead of schedule. Otherwise, they can only take effect the following year. So, the honourable national deputies, the calculation that we're looking at here, to this law, that's 106 million, because the budget is only 15. Where else can you find those that are not enough? Where will you get 90 million?? No one makes these proposals. I'm proposing to the Yanukovich government to tie up with that mindless reduction in the army, 200 grand you want to cut down -- dial up the judicial militia, the ones you're planning to shorten. At least a partial problem of social employment will be solved and so on. This should be done at a governmental, governmental level. And in that way, this law cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u88	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, from Melniczuk's microphone. Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Of course, by professionalism, I can't be equal to Carmazin, so he knows what he's saying, in principle, and he's making an offer. I just want to say the following. Indeed, the judicial police are indispensable. And not only to protect judges, but also to protect those citizens who are being summoned to court. We do not have isolated cases where citizens who, or witnesses who testify in the courts directly in the courtroom or on their way out of the room are subjected to those who defend the bandits or others who are their own who fall on the bench of the defendants. There was such a case on the Buquén, and it was when the police were to defend themselves from attacking a drunken judge. So I think we need to review this bill, but what it needs to be done is done. What about the funds for this, in principle, we always regret, and then we say, what did we do? So we're talking about judges who say, well, bribes in courts. Yes, there are cases where there are such cases, but when we passed the law on the judiciary, we had to make sure that the judge was financially today, so to speak, protected from what he should expect to be bribed. Or take another case. We've taken a step for the prosecutor's office to raise wages, normal pension insurance. But today, the Attorney General's Office has instructed that the district attorney, his deputies, should give up their pensions. So what we do is we give it with one hand, then the new headmaster comes and takes it from the prosecutor's office. And tomorrow we'll say there's bribes in the D.A.'s office. What about the people who had normal security, and now they're taking it away from them? I don't think there can be a two-pronged approach to this. The courts have to be supported, the prosecutors have to be supported, and the citizens will be protected by these organs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is closed, I hope for a positive decision on the day of the vote. Yes, if it is your will, let us work today as always on Friday, without interruption, and do what we have to do today. Thank you. The draft law is being heard about the amendment to article 15 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act, registration number 4218, the consideration of the issue of the reduced procedure. [[on the right of a national operator to send mail]] Reported by the Deputy Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine, Omelchenko Andri Volodymyrovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill provides for a reduction in the weight of simple letters, which are exclusive to the national postal operator and reduce from 350 grams to 50 grams. The need to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act is due to Ukraine's compliance with the requirements required for entry into the World Trade Organization, since the schedule of Ukraine's specific obligations in the services sector provides for restrictions on the exclusive right of the national postal operator to send simple letters and to liberalise the postal market as of 1 January 2005. Maintaining the exclusive right of a national postal operator to send simple letters of mass to 50 grams, on the one hand, will facilitate the liberalisation of the postal service market and Ukraine’s compliance with the WTO entry requirements, and, on the other hand, will take into account the World Postal Union acts, according to which to provide universal services, the permanent functioning of the postal network of each member country of the World Postal Union, reserves a certain type of postal service for a national operator. Given that the acquisition of WTO membership for Ukraine is a base, an economic component of integration into European and world economic space, please support this bill in the first reading. The bill was recommended for adoption at meetings of the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications and on European Integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, Stanislaw Alexiyovich Long. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u93	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, invited. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on 03.10.2003, No. 4218. As has already been said, the bill provides for a reduction in the marginal weight of simple letters from 350 grams to 50 grams, for which the national postal operator has exclusive rights. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The introduction of the law will not result in additional costs from the State Budget. The committee recommends the adoption of a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u94	Thank you, Stanislav Alexiovich. What, then, is there something that needs to be read and will be read again? Can we? Oh, that's later, okay. Okay, thanks. Let's move on to the discussion. Puzakov, behind him Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u95	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I don't know, and I'm sure no one can tell if the post office is going to get better when I get to the S.O.T. Today, however, the district departments of Skrošta are experiencing difficult times when the state has turned its back on them, left behind, and they are working fully on accounting principles and are causing enormous damage. Because of this, half of the total amount of services is incompetent and is related to other activities. The adoption of the bill, I think, will pave the way for the creation of hundreds of private postal companies and firms that will take a large portion of postal services that will further complicate the financial position of the post offices. Today, alternative private couriers are already in operation in the city of Kirovograd and elsewhere in the area, which are transported illegally through intercity buses, motorists, and railway drivers with uncontrolled tax controls. And the state does not receive income from the services provided. Because the post office doesn't have state support and it's in economic difficulty, the regular postman's working three hours a day, risking his life in the delivery of pensions, they get a pitiful salary that's not even enough to pay pensions. And Krašta, as a state - owned enterprise, should provide consumers with services of very high quality and postal services. What quality can be discussed in such a state’s attitude toward its workers? In my opinion, the urgent state support of Ukraine, the solution to the problem of postal services at the state level, the creation of a state postal department, as is done throughout the civilized world, rather than the liberalisation of postal services, will ensure the high quality of the Ukrainian postal service and the worth of the lives of its employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Solomon. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u97	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. After a colleague of Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhov painted the whole picture in detail in the postal sector, it seems difficult to add anything else. But all I want to do is give a political assessment of these phenomena. Ukraine is on the path of bourgeois transformation, property conversion, and that is what happens in postal activities. And so if we're talking about the need for the support of the postal sector, we need to understand normally, if the Soviet authorities, the authorities of the people come back, and they return to the relationship of property that prevailed in the socialist system, then they understand the issue, they have a reason. And if we continue on the path of so-called market transformations, of course, of Euro-Integrating, of course, of course, new and new postal operators will appear again and again, offer their services, and then the role of the state will remain to create different auctions, competitions, licenses, and so on. But will this service be better than that? I'm saying no, and I'm explaining why. First. Even what's left in the postal sector today, it's already broken down, it's given to other businesses entirely to perform other functions, and the postal organizations and the postal services themselves, they happen in such strict conditions, in such rooms, when a person comes to do mail, they get into these conditions when they don't even want to come to this kind of post office at all. There no longer seems to be a post office, but a local market opened up in this post office. Therefore, I would like to say the following. The price of mail is going to go up, it's going to cost not 45, it's not 65 copies, it's going to cost a bracelet and more. So that's the direction of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u98	Please, School, follow him, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u99	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! You know, first of all, I'd like to say about the law itself. The same law is made up of several lines where 350 is replaced by 50. If it is the Postal Liaison Act, but when it comes to the one we have the first one, but when it comes to the rest, to the fact that competition and competition must do more expensive postal services, it would be, as a minimum, not a professionally similar statement. Because the Monopolist now called Krašta will never be provided with high - quality postal connections. And anyone who has ever encountered a subscription — whether he has organized the subscription or he has himself — knows that the left share of the money spent by the subscriber in obtaining the edition is taken away by Krašta and constantly dictates to each consumer the amount of money he is to give to the only monopolist in Ukraine. And so, of course, the diversification of these services is only for the benefit of, I'm stressing the benefit of the consumer. And if Krašta wants to be competitive, she can spend her services on an endlessly small mark and then she'll be out of competition normally working and quality in this space. But the emphasis is that the main scourge for every citizen is the inability to subscribe to periodicals because of their roads. These periodicals, which are not dotted, are virtually nonpaid. Those publications that don't go off the record -- they don't go off the record either. So to say that there's an equality of sides in this, in this situation, you just don't have to. I would like to point out that this would have to introduce these diversification possibilities, that is, allow the consumer to choose who he is, who he is working with and how, because what is now on the market for postal services is basically the same thing that is on the market for telephone services, where there is only one monopoly and we pay enormously for telephone services that are constantly rising. And to the end. The common thing is that someone will provide services more expensively. The normal thing that might go up, but I'm going to point out there's not going to be a baseless price hike in this situation, well, someone wants to go out with these services more expensive -- they're going to come out. Someone wants to do a cheap service -- they're going to offer it to the population, and they're going to be able to lead, they say, to the consumer of that product that's being mailed. Now, clearly, here we have to support, of course, we could discuss here, we could argue, but in this situation we support, I think, it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u100	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u101	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the country's Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs. The question that we are considering is not very simple. And Prime Minister Janukovic here is misplaced. It's not just about replacing the digits of 350 grams by 50. This is about reducing the income of Ukraine’s state budget. Among countries, most countries in the world keep the postal sector under special care. The figures and names of countries in which, as in Ukraine, there is a monopoly of a national operator on sending simple letters of mass to 350 grams and simple postcards are Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Greece, Ireland, Spain, Italy, Lithuania, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Portugal, Hungary, France, Czech Republic, Norway. And in Albania, Slovakia, Slovenia, the weight threshold increases to 1,000 grams, and in countries like Switzerland, Cyprus, Latvia, Malta, Moldova, Poland, Romania, San Marino, Croatia 2,000 grams. You may not need to talk about the economic situation of these countries. Today, Ukraine is forced to pass on the most profitable market segments in written correspondence markets in the field of domestic universal services. And even by opening up the market, European countries are creating special funds or other mechanisms to compensate for the provision of universal services, such as tax exemptions or government subsidies. But all of this reduces budget revenues. Ukrainian officials referring to the World Trade Organization of Ukraine included in the specific commitment schedule the progressive opening of the postal service market. The need for the adoption of an act contained in the Explanatory Note by Yanukovic is explained by reference to the President's decrees. The truth is that there is not a single word in the decrees themselves. According to Krašta, a written correspondence of up to 50 grams is found to account for 50 percent of the total volume, which includes a simple and recommended correspondence. So Krašta will lose 20 percent of the written correspondence market, which is about 45 million dollars. So, please tell me, why is this necessary? During a recent session of the World Postal Union Administration, his CEO, Mr. Thomas Livy, drew attention to the reasonable fulfilment of market opening requirements. For example, Argentine mail lost 61 percent of the market after increased liberalisation. And that made it impossible to provide universal service. And it drew attention to the need for national government authorities to preserve the dominant position of the national operator in the market and to provide financial assistance. So, honourable national MPs, I urge you to vote against this law for our Ukrainian interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Question completed. We'll decide on the day of the vote. The question is: the draft Act on Amendments to Article 13 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act, registration number 3167. [[on the output for written correspondence]] Reported by the national deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u103	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, 123 constituency district, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear legislators, distinguished voters of ours, and respected postal workers, and those who use postal services. A few words about biography, the history of this initiative that I entered and supported by the committee, and I think it is supported by the Supreme Council. That's what I came up with when a known pseudonym pseudonym was distributed in Ukraine, and the prosecutor's office still hasn't been able to answer these questions. [[I want to get you back a little bit, turn you back a little bit.]] I was then forced to turn to the President from this rostrum and say, "What if I, or the Kosovos, or the Silencer, took and forged a letter where Kuchma thanks Major Melnick for perpetuating him in history, his private conversations?" - whether you find the prosecutor's office or not. Because of the substance of this amendment, it's very short, I'll read it to be heard by the radio audience and bring you back to that, the clarification is: "The treaty of which the national communications operator is party to any form of communication should contain a warning of non-transmission of written correspondence executed and distributed by the printer without output. [[circulation, printer name, order number and more]] A postal operator is responsible for this requirement. ” I think that both the majority and the minority and any citizen should be interested in that. Why, for example, do you have a contract? Because I want people to know when we're sending a letter, another question that the Security Service will read and see as in the old days, but when we drop 4-6-10 letters, that's one thing when it goes massive, so to speak, the attack on the mail and the sending of thousands, millions of letters, then the deal is made. Then there will be no way, let's say, some slander, some anonymous people will send it around our citizens' homes. I'm asking you to support this bill. Since I have two or three minutes, I want to tell you this for information: you know, there were a few citizens in the National Writers' Association yesterday, sitting down, talking to each other, and decided to release, vote unanimously, release Kuchma from office as President. Let him now go to trial, judge, and prove that we were unjust. I'm just very afraid there's no respect for me, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Has anyone voted that he's long since been released? We live in a country where everything is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u104	Thank you, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, but the output now is also very easy to view as you want. Yes, please, from the Long Committee, Stanislaw Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u105	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications reviewed the draft law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Post Office Act, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. The committee generally supported the bill, such as one aimed at preventing the use of postal operators’ networks for the distribution of unreliable information, and considered it appropriate to accept it as the basis for the first reading. However, when preparing for the second reading of the bill, it should be further developed with a view to clarifying the formulation of individual rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Yuri Anatolyovich, will we discuss this? Then, please, there's Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich! Although there are few of us in this room right now, there are only 40 of us, nevertheless, I would like to say that the proposal made by Mr. Yavorowski, the national deputy of Yavorowski, is completely heard. This Postage Act was passed on October 4, 2001 and is defined both by law and by organizational basis in the field of postal services. He suggests that a new part of article 13 be added to the requirement for a mandatory warning not to send written correspondence done and distributed in a printable manner without output. In addition to what he is proposing, I would like to propose a mandatory introduction of responsibility, and I suggest that the author do so and I take the initiative to help do so, the responsibility for failing to meet these requirements. Because a simple declaration will not give you anything. I would like to ask if today's leaders can find the answer to who used the village news logo in 1999 during the presidential election. And then I want to do a little parallel. And so in 1999, the presidential election. Three numbers are released by mass circulation, used by Krašta, used by the Communications Committee, used by all forces that are possible. Clearly, Ukraine’s executive power. And today the newspaper "Silski Novosti" closes, and now the parallel, and here the citizen of Israel, I emphasize, Israel-Vadim Rabinovich, who is convicted by the Ukrainian court of stealing particularly largely from the state channels, teaches me how to live, a Ukrainian citizen. And I, a Ukrainian citizen, am not being allowed into these channels, Adam Ivanovich, because you are behind constitutional reform and our people are not letting go. And they won't let me in. You're already on "The One" program, you're on other programs. So I'm going to propose to establish responsibility in this law right now and to adopt it, the law of this law, and to demand answers to those questions that have depended on society since 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u108	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I believe that people from Odessa should be released on all radio channels. Yes, please, are they still desirable? Then give me a minute, please, the microphone of Melniczuk and Solomatin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u109	Mikhailo Melniczuk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! This is really about the bill, and I think that the national deputy of Yavorowski, he introduced it in time, this bill. It's just that we may be late with him, and that he's on time today before the election company, because we understand how powerful the mail will be to use power in our own interests. So maybe it is, but we understand that the output numbers and everything else is going to be overrun. I think that only parliamentary control, an appropriate committee, can prevent this from happening, a special committee that should be set up in Parliament during the electoral campaign to monitor almost all activities. I think it's going to be done. I wanted to talk to Yuri Anatoliyovich about this, not just about letters with Yushchenk, about the "Village News" that was being produced, and about other printed publications that were then being distributed by postmen forced. But I'd like to focus on how much there are representatives of Crucifixion, dear friends, you see what's going on in the village, in the Ukrainian village. I've already talked about it. Radio doesn't work, TV isn't everybody's watching today, because if there's no electricity, and most villages don't have it, there's nothing to buy TV for, that's what I've been talking about. But please tell me, how can a postman work for 65 bucks? And there's always a shortcut at the expense of who? Postman's. How can a person work? How will she earn her pension, distinguished leaders of Crucifixion? When you get 100 bracelets, can a man, a postman in a village, earn a pension? And this is the person who contacts in the village no less than one and a half thousand citizens of the village. So why aren't they taking measures? I'd like to talk to you about that. What do you think you're doing with the people in the village, the postmen who get the low wages today? And not just there. In the district offices, too, wages are low. So here's what I'm officially asking you, and I'd like to get an official answer from you, what are we going to do with these people, so they don't just have a decent salary, and a pension insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, it's Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are in a very interesting situation as legislators -- everything requires protection and observation. This is what we've been looking at with regard to court protection, the judicial police, journalists need to be protected, there seems to be a law being prepared to put a journalistic police or a police force to every editorial. Even add to every guard reporter. To each postal operator, with each postal operator, create a Ukrainian Security Service office to monitor the operator’s activity: that he is. How it transmits there and whether there is a proper output of any printed product, etc. Such a list can be continued. Everyone's watching everything -- it's independent of its people -- the Ukrainian state, that's what we built in 12 years of independence. So I personally believe that there are no improvements that our lawyers here are calling from every Ukrainian shadow and even from the highest rostrum in our country, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they're not going to lead to anything. Only fundamental systemic changes in politics and political relations need to be made, and this is what political reform aims at as the first step towards the return of the peoples of the country and the socialist system in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed, we will be determined on the day of the vote. We are considering a draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for the Distribution of Productive Fossils, registration number 4344. As reported by the National MP, Makeyenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment supported the amendments to the bill and proposes to your consideration. After four years of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Distribution Agreements, specific investment projects were finally launched in the field of drug use, such as the development of oil and gas fields on the Black Sea shelf. When working on projects within the framework of an inter-agency commission on the organization and implementation of product distribution agreements, which, by the way, eight of our fellow national deputies are involved, it was necessary to specify some of the provisions of the Law on Product Allocation Agreements. The bill contains rules of direct action that legislatively define the mechanism of taxation. This is particularly true of the characteristics of the value added tax, particularly in the process of distribution of produced products between the state and investors. Thus, the initiative to prepare the first production distribution projects for the Cabinet of Ministers was followed by several, a group of investors, both Ukrainian and foreign. And when you transfer the project equipment to a foreign investor to a Ukrainian operator for a compatible activity, like a floating drill. " Black Sea oil and gas, there is an immediate need to pay the tax on the added value of tens of millions of dollars. In doing so, the so-called compensatory product, which by law will compensate investors' expenses, including the tax advance, will only occur three or four years after the payments have been made. The bill further proposes leaving 70 per cent of the limit on the maximum share of products that can be used to compensate investors for their costs only for oil and gas crops, which are highly cost-effective. At the same time, for others, such as coal or salt mines, such restrictions will prevent them from reaching even minimum rates of profitability. For this reason, a specific portion of the output that will be transferred to compensate investors' expenses will be determined by a product distribution agreement made between investors and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, resulting from the specification of each crop. It should be noted that our bill, which has been tabled by three national deputies -- Schlem, Maquienko, Hmelnicki -- contains a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the protection of the State's interests in the implementation of the distribution agreements. So the project clearly states that all of the costs from the implementation of the products that remain in state ownership are included in the State Budget. It is further determined by the law that the State temporarily owns all the useful fossils extracted from the tops before the distribution. The bill was widely discussed, inter alia, at a round table held in December by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy and the Fuel Energy Complex. All comments were taken into account. I propose that the bill be adopted in the first reading, that we make a comment to this bill on the second reading that will be taken into account at our committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u114	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. From the committee, Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment examined the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Agreements on Distribution of Products. The bill proposes a number of changes, both drafting and clarifying the legislation in force. In the authors'view, such changes would lead to positive changes in Ukraine's investment climate in mining, particularly oil and gas. The proposed supplement would contribute to greater transparency and certainty during the fulfilment of the terms of the treaties and in the payment of taxes and mandatory payments in kind. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to vote on the proposed bill on first reading and on the basis. However, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its opinion, made quite a few comments to the bill and invited its authors to return to the finalization for subsequent re-reading. There are, among other things, comments that call into question their perseverance, in particular the recognition of ownership of what is in the bowels of the earth. This calls into question the possibility of adopting this law in the first reading by the Supreme Council. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, sit down, please. Short-term procedure. Yes, Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u117	I don't see us breaking anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u118	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs. The very fact that this bill is being sent is a disgraceful fact in our practice. He's a disgrace! Why? And thank God there are still decent and principled people in the science department. I'm going to name them Semiletov, Oleschenko, Goodzinski, Craig, Anufreyev, who clearly said that this project could not be done, it should be sent for work. In order for everyone to understand me, why. According to the law, according to the Constitution, the right of ownership of what we have in the upper hand belongs to who? The people of Ukraine. And what do they want to do today? Today they want to do, distort fossil relations in terms of distribution of produce and say that this right to the point of distribution of produce and the points of ownership of all produced in years of production belongs to an investor. [[paragraph 1, paragraph 5]] People are good! Well, when they steal in secret, I understand. Well, frankly, you want to steal from the state most expensive, and we have trillions on top. This is when we come to power, we're going to have enough of this money for a long time, this is going to be a good, European state richer than Switzerland. Do you want to take the investors?Oh, my God! Gentlemen. Makinko, Hmelnicki, you signed under this bill. This bill is a threat to the economic security of the state at all. I'm not saying that from the point of view of others, more or less weak laws, let's say, your State Budget Act: you're not allowed to do budget calculations in cash. And you want to rob useful mines, and then you want to pay off the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing?Oh, my God! Read the Tax System Act, article one. And it clearly says, "The establishment of bets, the mechanism for tax and tax administration, as well as tax benefits, is implemented only by tax laws." So these changes that are here, in this law, about the terms and conditions for paying taxes should also be made there. But you'll see who's lobbying right now. I'm just asking. I haven't seen him in 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u119	Thank you. Alexandrovska. Behind her is Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u120	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I would like to draw attention not only to the deputies who are in this room, but also to those who are listening to the broadcast today from the Supreme Council Hall, to the fact that, indeed, the adoption of this law is trying to address the key issue of ownership in the State. I would like to say that the issue of ownership is either an influence on the development of a State or an issue hindering development. Thus, this law is a law that will stall Ukraine's development for many years, the development of Ukraine's economy. Article one, which defines the terms used in this law, defines the product produced. The product will be considered to be the total quantity of products produced under the distribution agreement, the division of products and delivered to the measuring points. If the old version of the law stated that the produce that was yet to be obtained but not obtained after the point of measurement belonged to the State. This formulation is in full conformity with the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which the property of the State is all that is in the bowels of the land. That amendment to article 20 of this Act makes serious adjustments to this basic provision. Article 20 will propose the following amendment: Until the distribution of the products at the point of measurement, the property right to all the goods produced under the agreement will belong to the investor. This means that the following scheme will be broken down: under the agreement, the investor will acquire wells, build infrastructure, invest in decent capital investments, produce up to the point of measurement to the extent that the investor should give it to the State as a fee for the use of these nadramas. And the State will get its share. The remaining part of the product can be preserved because it is nowhere to be said that the investor is obliged to obtain absolutely everything that is in these minerals, in the upper part, and this means that the investor has the right not to obtain it further and not to realize it. There is a question of the loss of the business. The law further proposes that if the investor has a negative balance of profits, he is entitled, of course he will not pay taxes, and his loss will be incurred for the next quarter and loss is also possible in the next quarter. The tax system laid down in this law makes it impossible for an investor to pay a local tax at all, because it states that all taxes other than centralized government taxes can be paid on the basis of the products produced and obtained. And I've already said that nothing will force an investor to get his share of the product. This means that all the taxes other than those defined in paragraph three will not be paid. That is, the law allows investors to actually own everything in Ukraine. This is a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Puzakov. After him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u122	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This bill will not fully create favourable conditions for investment, as has already been said today. In general, mining in Ukraine and the elimination of contradictions resulting from the transfer to investors of parts of mined property rather than the collection and payment of tax liabilities to investors in money or natural form. To the end, the Law provides for special conditions for the payment of taxes, congregations to be filled in by the State and local budgets. Investors and business entities are not in the same condition as they receive a tax credit for the acquisition of material values. And I don't exactly agree with the part of the law that says taxation. This part needs to be worked out, for these omissions and inaccuracies can have undesirable consequences. And one more thing. There was a round table where two committees participated, PEC and economic policy. And where was the environmental management committee at that time? This must have been done artificially, because then all of these proposals were taken critically. And in general, my view is that this bill is going to have to be redrafted, that is, for the first time again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u124	School Andrew, Julia Timoshenko faction, 121 constituency, Lviv. You know, I'd also like to share my concerns about the fact that there's no speaker. He wasn't invited to this new "For Jedu" in the Ukrainian House, he's not here right now. Maybe as long as we're here in this small number, we're talking about the law, maybe there's a part of the Supreme Council in the other room that's going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u125	Andrew, I am so glad that you are so concerned about the Head of the Supreme Council. The head of the Supreme Council is now meeting with representatives of foreign nations. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Let's work hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u126	It's a pleasure, thank you. Now I wanted to go to the bill itself. You know, I didn't want much, because my predecessors have already said enough about this bill. I'd just like to quote a little bit. I'm not going to load, look, paragraph 5 in article 20 in paragraph 1 replace the word "state" with the word "investor." And this is the subject of this law. Every step of the way, change the state into an investor. Of course, we're happy that the investor will invest in the mining of Ukrainian nadr, but I don't think anyone has any comfort in that Ukrainian manufacturing companies, particularly oil companies, belong to Russia. Neither the tax on the budget goes well, nor the salary goes up. And we're constantly having problems with fuel oil before the seed company starts. So I also think that the approach here should be adequate, there's no rush and there's no need to transfer control of the nadra and especially at the mining stage to the investor. Of course, then there'll be some kind of return, someone there will put a couple of copies in the budget there, but believe me. You know, we have to live to get something into the budget. We live in a land of wonders, only these miracles occur at the expense of its citizens. So the main investors of these miracles are you and me, the taxpayers. So in this situation, I don't think anyone has the will to vote for this bill. Because he carries the whole point in this brief point. “State” is replaced by “investor”. So I would like to point out that in no case do we have the right to vote for this bill, and we have to send it away and go back to it. And I also want to thank our lawyers who have considered all these underwater stones of the Supreme Council and the lawyers in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u127	Thank you, the question is closed, we will make a decision on the day of the vote. There is a draft law on the nature of the privatisation of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the statutory fund of the closed stockholding company “Transnational Financial and Industrial Oil Company Skrtatnafta” under reduced procedure, reports Dmitri Mihajlovich Sandler, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u128	M. Dmitri Sandler, Democratic Initiatives. Your Honor, the presiding officer, the honourable colleagues. The Bill 3594-1 passed for your consideration by me is an alternative to the Bill 3594 previously considered. The adoption of the draft law on the specialities of the privatisation of “Ukratatnafta” number 3594, which is sponsored by the national deputy Gabrieluk and others, can have extremely negative consequences. That's what I introduced my version of the bill. The bill 3594 completely ignores the statutory documents of the joint association “Ukratatnafta”. The project makes it possible to privatize the company in a very transparent way for the benefit of individual business groups. The procedure for the formation of a privatisation commission based on a deputy body, not on the basis of representatives of the State Property Fund, runs counter to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property and the Ukrainian Law on the State Property Fund. The Privatization Commission is intended to include only one representative of the Maintenance Fund from 15 members of the Commission. Thus, professional personnel from the State Property Fund are only formally involved. All privatisation decisions will be made by the people's deputies, members of the Privatization Commission. This suggests an attempt to turn the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a hand tool not a pure competition for business groups. Parliament assumes its ineligible powers, in fact acting as the State Property Fund in this case. The bill is also contrary to the rules of law in force on the priority interests of shareholders in the acquisition of shares in their enterprises in the event of privatization. This at the same time violates the principles enshrined in the article, in the Statute of “Qurtatnafts” and in domestic civil law. There is a significant negative impact on Ukraine’s investment attractiveness to external investors. Law 3594 is an outright lobbyist. The interests of the working group, the interests of the social sphere, are not taken into account. At the same time, this requirement is clearly defined by article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property. Dear colleagues, the alternative bill I have tabled, sets out more transparent and fair principles for privatising the state-owned package of ZAT "Ukratatnafta". It defines the main stages of the privatization of the enterprise, the principles of the formation of the privatization commission, and defines its mandate. A special approach has been taken to form the Privatization Commission, which involves representatives of the Supreme Council. The privatisation commission consists of nine representatives of parliaments on a proportionate basis and three representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Holding Foundation, and the Minpalivenergo. The competitive sale of Skrtatnafti is a single package and is open to all participants. The winner of the competition is a participant who, in keeping with all of them, wins the competition. terms, offering the highest price for the stock. Existing shareholders of Skrtatnafti are given the right to hand over a package of shares at the highest price offered by the contestants. So anyway, the maximum price will be paid. The law provides for the responsibility of the winner of the competition, the refusal to sign the sales contract. The bill that I have proposed preserves stability for foreign investors and does not compromise monetary revenues towards privatization. In this way, the State simultaneously maximizes monetary revenues and adheres to the conditions laid down in the statutes of the ZAT "Ukrattatnafti". In the end, I would like to add that if the drafters of the bill were to withdraw the bill, I would like to add that I am ready to withdraw my bill at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, from the committee, the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, Mr. Anatoliyovich Demjochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee considered the bill at its meeting. Like the first bill, we have recently considered the Bill of the People's Deputy, Gabrieluk. You remember, we also discussed it on Friday. Committee decision. The Committee recommends that the bill be rejected and, if a bill submitted by the people's deputies Gavriluk, Klimpusche, Kozachenko is the registration number 3594 in preparation for the second reading, that it should be finalized and taken into account in the comments made by the scientific and expert management and that a bill that was submitted by the People's MP Sandler may be taken into account. But if you look a little bit deeper at this bill, what I would like to say. First, there is already a decision of the Special Privatization Supervisory Commission and has been heard here on several occasions, and there is considerable debate in the press. The Special Monitoring Commission believes that it is necessary for the Office of the Attorney-General and the Cabinet of Ministers to verify in general the legality of the formation of the Charter Fund “Krkrtatnafty”. I would like to remind you, my distinguished colleagues, that Skrtatnafta is a joint venture. In the first phase, Ukrainian-Russian. Today, foreign participants as well. And in the process of establishing this company, there was no question of taking into account the interests of the labour community. That is, the 43 packages in question today were initially valued at half a billion dollars in the first phase, there was a reassessment of the change in oil prices, and today it stands at a recent estimate of $150 million. That is, what belongs to the State is a holistic property complex. Indeed, the question was that the participants had been asked whether the oil obligations had been met or whether they were being fulfilled. And I can tell you this, distinguished colleagues, already that this issue is being discussed, well, because the public knows, we have drawn attention, the people's deputies who have submitted the bill, and it is no longer clear that this process can be carried out. In fact, the second bill was called “the technology of Parliament”, and it was simply a slowing down of the first bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There is no one who wants to participate. Carmazine, right? No, no, no. Then, please, on the list. Hands aren't worth a damn. Carmazine, get the Barts ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u132	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The bill under consideration is absolutely specific. Specific and not because of that. I'm sorry, I'm asking you to stop the timer, because I can't report it properly. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The bill, as one of the weeks of our newspaper Voice of Ukraine correctly wrote, "this sweet smell of oil, not of oil, but of action" attracts this smell of everyone, but I'd like to make sure that everyone, including those who are going to take part in it, doesn't get very upset. And that's why, because I think that the expert conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, prepared by the Teeth, is not in line with the interests of the State, is not in line with current legislation, and so I suggest my conclusion. First of all, in view of the fact that there are 43 wholes and 54 thousandths of the statutory fund in the state property, we need to think carefully: is there even a need to sell and adopt the one that is currently planned, that one project, that one project, that one project? What's more, what's going on right now, I'm going to talk about in the U.S. Air Force, and now I can't trust Chechchev, and I'm probably not going to trust the entire membership of the State Property Fund, and I'm going to demand that the matter be brought up here immediately about the urgent report and the discharge. Because I can see how the shadowy privatization is happening right now because of this. So we need to do something about the privatization body. The same project proposes to create a special commission of 18 people, a government to create. The commission will include nine members of the Supreme Council and three representatives from the government, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the State Property Fund. Please tell me, what will happen next? The commission will be elected. Who will enter from the Supreme Council? Most will come in. What are you going to do there, with that Scrooge? Honourable National Deputies, acting as the head of the Privatisation Commission of Ukraine under the Ukratransnaft, as well as the approval of such a candidature by the Supreme Council, are not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitution, article 85, defined an exclusive list of powers that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to exercise and which do not allow for the appointment of heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, School. After him, Solomonine. [[I didn't take it from you.]] Please, School. [[I won't, because you've already said 3.18.]] Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u134	You can't do that either! I'm done. I want these two projects to be rejected: both 3594 and 3594-1 as lobbyists. And the people of Ukraine need to see a transparent procedure if the government is to make this privatization necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u135	Please, School. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u136	The school of Andrew, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, 121 constituency. You know, when the co-author of Law 3594-1 reported, he made such an interesting statement that if another bill was taken, 3594, he would take his own. The interesting nuance here is, of course, being followed. In our eyes, this is the kind of struggle that you and I have in most cases as viewers. And let us not forget that we are not viewers; we are the supreme legislative body of the State. And so, you know, in this situation, we can say one thing: it'll be a very simple decision for everyone -- to refuse to privatize Ukratnafta in general and all. Leave the process at the stage where it is. Of course, it's not at the best stage, it's all the way to the edge, but it hasn't fallen into the chasm yet. And I would like a representative of the State Property Fund to express his position. I think the State Property Fund wants to give up everything, to sell there for a couple of copies, but there are things you can't do, there are things that violate the strategic security of the Ukrainian State. And it is not only the private interests of certain major, general investors in the looting of Ukraine that need to be protected. So there's only one Solomon's solution in this case is to refuse. And the position here is probably to take over the State Property Fund. I don't believe, of course, that with today's CEO Chechtev, he might be actually busy with the State Property Fund, a state-owned position, I don't say that's pro-Ukrainian, just state-owned. This person is there to subtract and divide, not multiply and add. It's her job. I'm concerned that the previous head of the State Property Fund, who sits here, will, I'm sure, support the idea of privatization and Ukratnafta, and Ukradprom and Topaz. And this is the Supreme Council, the Supreme Legislature, to put in a list of objects that are not privatized, and this list is constantly being sent through, both through the window and through the quadratic, to send us bills that would allow someone there to warm their hands. But the heating of these hands is happening in the fire of statehood, and the state is being destroyed, so the State Property Fund has either to match its name, or we in the walls of this higher legislature have to change, it's an anti-active fund, a fund to destroy Ukraine's state property. Because everything that needs to be privatized in the future before is destroyed, destroyed by a penny, privatized and then sold for billions, it's sold in a better way, and in a worse case it's passed into management, there's investors of questionable quality coming. So I'm stressing that we have to reject both bills and put an end to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Solomon, follow the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u138	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I want to start by reminding you that all that was created by human hands in our country was already adopted when the Earth Code was adopted, was the beginning of acceptance of what is created by nature and by human hands is our land. Privatization processes have gone through, and it has lost all the unworthy work, even the entire population of Ukraine. Now we're preparing for the last bite -- Nadra, the natural resources. Natural monopolies in some countries, such as our northern neighbour, have a decisive impact on the creation of a state budget. We have the same mining and metallurgical industry in Ukraine, which is linked to all the paths and relationships with nadrama. Unfortunately, we don't have enough oil and gas in Ukraine to produce our own crops, only 10-15 percent of our own crops provide production, but we get these energy from neighbouring states from post-Radians, and that's why we have structures like the Transnational Finance and Industry Company Ukrtatnafta. When the state is unable to manage, to manage property that belongs to everyone, it gives it to the State Property Fund for privatization. So it's not about the Fund. The fund is just an executive structure that executes the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the matter of the Cabinet of Ministers and the party that happens all the time around the Cabinet of Ministers and its structures and offers to make the last bite over and over again under certain conditions. The question that we are discussing with you right now is the question of Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine. So I'd like to say to the conclusion that the bills submitted, they don't stand out any criticism, they separate the interests of certain business circles of the natives and those with whom our natives have a certain relationship abroad. But these bills are not for the benefit of our people. So I think you could put a dot on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u140	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. Dear National Deputies! Well, first of all, we have to ask, why do we need to sell shares in private hands? Who will benefit from this? State? No, of course not. If not, why is the state not defending its interests? I mean the Cabinet of Ministers and the Maintenance Fund. We're in the privatisation commission against these bills, and we're in the process of putting these shares into private hands, selling them into private hands. This is the only thing left that the state still has a fraction of itself in the oil industry, the vast majority of which is already captured by companies of another foreign state. It's a matter of national security. And I have a very, very, very questionable question. Why is this law included in order every plenary week? Why is this being done? Who's doing this? I think it's time to find out who's doing this. Last year we discussed similar bills we rejected. Again, every week, this law is imposed. That's understandable. There are certain forces that want their hands, a foreign state, to clean up these stocks, to tear them up into states, and then they'll resell them and make very good money. You can't let that happen. Once and for all, we have to forget about the sale of shares, and vice versa, I think that if the Cabinet of Ministers and the Statemeine Foundation were to think about the interests of the state, national interests, national security, but that's where they were asking questions to buy out the rest of the shares in general, and this plant was to be fully engaged in Ukraine. Now these concessions that go into the budget that can go into the budget would go up a lot. And besides, it's again a matter of national security. Once again, I say that the holdmain Foundation does not stand up for national interests and the honourable Mr. Carmazin, you are asking about Mr. Chechchev's dismissal. I've asked the Security Service a question about drawing Mr. Chechchev to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll give you a minute for Bondar. Stepan Ilkovich, I'm answering your question as to why he's being treated. The point is that we are acting in accordance with the Rules. Bill 3594 was considered nearly nine months ago. When we started putting it out for consideration, they said there was an alternative bill, so we don't have to, we don't have to vote it. That's right. And we've been waiting nine months to consider this bill. That's why it's happening here in the Rules and you're coming out. Please, a minute, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u142	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I've asked you a few words because there were questions at the foundation and the Cabinet of Ministers. We have repeatedly, and the Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers have written down our position on the laws on the features of the privatisation of Skrtatnafti and submitted by Gabrieluk and Sandler. The holding fund and the Cabinet of Ministers strongly oppose the adoption of these laws. The Cabinet of Ministers and the Maintenance Fund are not at this stage asking about the sale of the government's stake in Skrtatnaft, and now the Cabinet of Ministers is considering the creation of a vertical and integrated oil company, where all state-owned stock packets will go unprivatized. With regard to the law of MP Sandler, he is hardly different from the law of Gabrieluk, as the deputy Sandler himself said, that is, the whole criticism of Gabrieluk’s law applies to the law of deputy Sandler. The main reason why it is against the Fund is that the adoption of this law, because the commission created by the deputies has no right to live with their functions, because this is essentially an executive function, the work of the Privatization Commission, and there can be no national MPs. They may only enter with the right of an advisory vote. And in addition, Skrtatnafta was created according to international agreements, there were two decrees by President Tatarstan and Ukraine, and it cannot be privatized on general grounds, as defined by this law. So I fully agree with the criticism of the MPs who spoke in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Question completed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm asking your permission to give us five more minutes, and then I'm going to go straight for an hour and then I'm going to continue "Variance," which is exactly the hour we're going to use. We also have a six-year-old bill, where six words literally: this is the draft of the Act on Supplementing Article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Referrals of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to Other States, Bill 3416. According to Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Please, three minutes. Article eight, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u144	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected companions. Project implemented by the People's Deputies of Domanski, Kuzmuk, Kruchkov. What's the point? The current legislation provides two possible options for the deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states. First: to participate in international peacekeeping operations. [[We have a special law.]] And secondly, in accordance with the Act on the Order of Assignment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States. The way in which questions are addressed to other states is the same and fully meets the requirements of article 85, paragraph 23, of the Constitution of Ukraine: this is a necessary decision by the President on the basis of a decision taken by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, agreed with the Ministry of Defence and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the order of possible withdrawal does not match. The Constitution does not regulate this issue. In the first case, when our units are headed for international peacekeeping operations, they can be recalled by Presidential decrees approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in line with the Ministry of Defence; or by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the second case, it's not possible to respond to the Supreme Council's proposals. It is suggested that the order of these issues be harmonized. That would be logical, we think, because the Supreme Council has the last word when dealing with the issue of sending troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states. And secondly, this would eliminate injustice, because Parliament's mandate in these matters is limited today. The project is supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs, Legal Policy and National Security and Defence, as well as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u145	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Have a seat, please. Do you understand, Your Honor? No, then. Carmazine and Bespallian, please. If you don't mind, we'll have the microphones in a minute. Incorruptible, then Carmazin. Bespalogo microphone. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u146	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I think the inclusion of this bill on military matters is some kind of gift to the military personnel of the day before the festival, which was still embedded in the consciousness of our people, the Day of the Protector of Homeland. I want to welcome them with this holiday because the people in the chase are everywhere and must be under the elite of the nation. And this high status needs to be maintained. And that confusion that's in the legislation didn't exactly contribute. So the committee's intention and the way he proposes to do it, I fully support it. But at the same time, I think this is what. Since we do not have full clarity with legislation on the order of deployment of the Armed Forces in various cases outside Ukraine, there are no guarantees and rights and military personnel. There are many questions here. So I would like to make such a suggestion, in part, that the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, and the minister himself, who was here yesterday in the rostrum, will report on how the service of our peacekeepers in Iraq is now taking place, where they were directed, how their financial, material, other security is now going, as well as to Liberia. This gives us the impression that the Supreme Council is only involved in the deployment of peacekeeping units or military formations, and then we seem to have nothing to do with our Armed Forces. I think it's very wrong, because the executive authorities are worried about them badly, what the minister was talking about yesterday, and that's what we have to think about -- defeating our own army in peace conditions when it wasn't that many years ago, and our government managed to beat our own army. So at least the deputies of the Supreme Council would take her under their care, not just under control, but under the help. Therefore, by supporting this bill, I stress once again my proposals to put in order the day in March to listen to information from the Minister of Defence of Ukraine about the state and conduct of the service of those armed forces and military units that are already being sent, not by us, but which are being sent by Ukraine to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u147	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. You haven't spoken to us, because the Supreme Council is making decisions on the deployment of troops.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u148	The President's appointment is a joint one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u149	Yes, but the Supreme Council votes. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u150	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". To make it clear that neither Boris Besparly nor Yuri Carmazin nor the vast majority of "Our Ukraine" have voted in favour of sending them to Iraq, Kuwait, Liberia, Yugoslavia! This is to be clear, Adam Ivanovich. And the fact that your majority over there voted new-born, I'm sorry. And don't stop at the Supreme Council. That's 200 grand today. You want to shorten and yesterday voted in favour of the military's day before Motherland's Defender's Day, and that's 100 million. It's going to be funded in the budget today to have our parts in these states, it's done at our expense, it's taken from our military, it doesn't appear to them, it's their boots, it's not their form. You can ask, when did these guards get dressed around the Supreme Council? And they weren't given it. They didn't just give it away. What do they stand for? But where are they looking? How and where are they looking? I'm asking the committee a question, but right now, before the thoughtless vote yesterday, maybe someone will. Maybe you can understand that 200,000 can't be reduced in one year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u151	Yuri Anatoliyovich, please, on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u152	I'm asking you not to comment, it's all on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u153	I'm behind the Rules. I have the right to stop you. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u154	You can see it in another country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u155	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I remind you of the rule of law: the chairman has the right to make a comment to the speaker if he does not speak on the subject. We are considering a bill, I remind you, amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states. The coat and dress, the government of state protection, have absolutely no bearing on this. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u156	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for reminding me, but all this has to do with our military, which decision, including your faction, voted yesterday. The project is therefore intended to allow Parliament to initiate the recalling of the military forces that have been sent to other States by means of the initiative of both the President and the Supreme Council. So I would like to thank the head of the Committee, Kruczkov, for this proposal. Because, although there are no rules in the Constitution that allow these changes to be made, there is no prohibition to propose the withdrawal of the armed forces in the event that these forces are directed. I believe that this will allow for a certain parity between the various branches of government in making such important decisions. And this is also in line with the analogous position of article 7 of the Act on Ukraine's Participation in Peacekeeping Operations, which provides for proposals for the return of the peacekeeping continent and peacekeeping personnel involved in an international peacekeeping operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u157	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for having us in the discussion. School, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u158	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'll take one minute. As for this bill, look at this formula, which allows us to raise the Supreme Council, raise it not only with a legislative rating, but simply with an impact rating on state processes. That is how we need to act, not necessarily to make constitutional changes. It's very simple. The Supreme Council has the right to send, in the same way perfectly logical, it has to call it off. The Supreme Council votes in favour of the Prime Minister, and in the same way the Supreme Council has the right to recall him on or instead of the President. That is the way to modernize legislation. It's not blind, it's not deaf. So, of course, we need to support the initiative of the committee here, and that's the main thing, that's going to change this possibility of an unalterable position of the Supreme Council, send -- yes, express your position -- yes, and call it off -- no, not to happen. So I thank you for this initiative and I want to urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, conclusion, a minute, Georgi Korniyovich out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u160	I would like to thank my colleagues for supporting the bill and for supporting what Boris Jakovitch Bespalij said. Indeed, he is absolutely right that the Supreme Council should know the situation of our peacemakers. And I would like to report that according to the law, the government is supposed to inform the Supreme Council last year. As soon as we receive this report, I will make an offer to the Conciliation Council to have it discussed in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Baburin. Baburin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u162	Baburin, the Communist faction. I would like to remind the representative of the Party of Fatherland Defenders that we did not vote in favour of sending our troops to Iraq, and without our Ukrainians, this must not have been the case. That's the first one. And the second. After the Law was passed yesterday, where he accused the faction of voting Communists. I would like to remind the representative that he has succeeded in following up on the statements made by the assistants and then voting by the factions. Once again, the Communist faction did not vote in favour of reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u163	They exchanged lines, at first. Dear colleagues, first Carmazin said, and then Babourin said no one would speak again. Question completed. The vote will take place at the appropriate time. Now let's move on to the “Variable” to which it will be taken straight, it will be, at 2.27 p.m. we will finish. Please find out who signed up. Yes, please show me on the screen. Please Puzakov, prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u164	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. On 5 February this year, the Round Table “The Strategy for Ukraine’s Development” was held in Kirovograd. Our view", initiated by the local headquarters of the “Our Ukraine” bloc, where representatives of all the political forces of Kirovogradina were invited. There were three people's deputies from the Yushchenko bloc, Yevgeny Červonenko, Oleg Rybachuk and Alexander Trelyakov. It turns out they even took the lead in our area during the upcoming presidential campaign, because our area is protesting, that is, red. In vain, these bosses are looking for an island of happiness in the sea of disaster. [[& Tiles]] They are very afraid that they will continue to try to separate the electorate. They even assured that as long as the area remained a political battle area there would be no order. From this rostrum, I'll be sure to say, there is order in the area and there will be, because there is a five-thousand-thousand army of communists. Our region was red and will remain the same. Instead of bossing around in our area, I advise you gentlemen to go to your precincts and make arrangements. I would also like to remind the head of Kirovogradtina that the communists on the ground and the communists in Parliament are the same, they are honest and orderly people, and the leader of the Communists, Peter Simonenko, has never sold or sold his honour and conscience, he has never entangled his party, he has never played with that power. It was Yushchenko who always played with Kuchma, calling him his father, that Yushchenko and his allies held his father for a second term. The first parliamentary coup in 2000 was also organized by Yushchenko in favour of Kuchma. On the contrary, when Ukraine without Kuchma came to the fore, Yushchenko and his "Our Ukraine" sat in bushes. Why did you, the "bosses" of Kirovogradina, the richest businessmen in power, not make your people happy, and only now do you want to challenge the people with small and cheap authority and trust in the filth of innocent people? Remember, gentlemen, that the Communists and their leader, Peter Simonenko, were never together with the pro-U.S. authorities or the pro-American opposition. And I advise you: start picking up, building and building a new Ukraine in your districts, and we in Kirovgrad will figure out what to do and how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Chubarov, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u166	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I am confident that many of Ukraine’s voters, especially those who are able to monitor the proceedings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, understand. in the words and affairs of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I started out with this statement just before I called your attention to the destructive, if not to say the provocative role of individual politicians that they play by deliberately spreading through the media into a society of such disinformation, which is not only offensive to Ukrainian citizens, but also aims to create in the public opinion of neighbouring countries a very negative image of Ukraine. Everybody knows that every now and then there are protest actions by citizens, either miners, teachers, pensioners, etc. The same is true in the Crimea. But here, a number of social problems that are the same for all of Ukraine are added to specific Crimean problems, particularly land. The reason for this is also common knowledge. But no. There will certainly be villains who will talk about anything for the sake of their own political interests, but not only about the solutions to people’s problems. As we analyze the Russian press this year, we cannot help but notice that the information attack against Crimea has already begun against Ukraine. If previous years of such companies started in a month or two before the beginning of the resort season, this year is six months from now. You could smile once again at the nonsense of the Crimean situation filled with Russian newspapers like "Work Tuesday", "Russian Courier", "Parliamentary Gazette" if you don't understand the huge economic, not only economic losses for Ukraine because of such information companies of our neighbours. Because in many of my material in spreading false information, these newspapers refer to the statements made by one of the Ukrainian national deputies, including Leonidas Grač, from this rostrum, I want to speak openly to the head of the BSC, to the head of the State Committee of Religion with the suggestion to publicly confirm Mr. Grač’s claims or to refute them, those statements that spread through the press and that cause such damage to the solution of all the painful problems that we have in Ukrainian society, particularly in the Crimea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, on the rostrum. Get ready, Proscarat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u168	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, our citizens! I would like to begin by welcoming those defenders of the homeland who are now carrying the pursuits of those who have protected our homeland from all kinds of uncleanness and those who will still protect. Good for you, happiness, prosperity! That's the first thing I want to say. And then I wanted to draw your attention to the two disturbing telegrams that I received, and I ask you to correct my stamina from the protocol to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for action and for the government. Thus, on 17 February 2004, a group of individuals, Emina, Koval, Kaupman, Zaharchenko, broke into the Odeski Airlines production facility, who in sharp form demanded that the Acting Chairman of the Czernecka Air Force be immediately hired and given the right of the first signature. So it's written in a telegraph of the collective and then the appeals sent by the collective clearly say that the state airline, which increased the amount of work, the wages, changed the moral and psychological climate, is now being hanged by the State Property Fund and specifically by its head. And the fund gave an illegal order to release Mazurenko, the head of the government, and then these actions took place. And all of this is written by people, it's happening in a contract with our deputy Granowski O.H., who keeps the VIP room for passengers, helps him make money without paying taxes to the state. I quote, "The number of passengers receiving services is hidden and, as an investigation, income is hidden. The team would like to invite the national deputy Granowski to formally request the management of the holding fund to participate in the privatisation of the airline if the holding fund has plans to privatise VAT "Avia Company Odessa Airlines". And I'm saying, get out of here, you filthy hands, from privatizing a state-owned enterprise! The second telegraph is no less terrible: yesterday, February 19, the deputy director of the State University of Information and Communication Technology, Maximec Boris Mikolaiovich, in the presence of a large number of teachers, threatened in indecent form with misappropriation and taking inadequate steps towards the deputy director of the Svetlana Arcadian College for her firm stand in preserving our educational institution. This is written by the liaison college instructors who are in the heart of Kiev. But what's it doing, masters of captors?Oh, my God! Stop, please! It says here that teachers and students are indignant and ready for active protest. The team's task is to head the College Protection Committee. I've already learned about this situation today, it turns out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, Proscuratova is passing on her time to Shurma. Get ready, Kaletnik. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u170	Igor Šurma, faction of SDPU. Ukraine’s Social Democratic Party MP introduced a draft Ukrainian Law on the National National Insurance of Newborn Children for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[united]] We are deliberately drawing the attention of the only legislative body in Ukraine to this very project, pursuing a very pragmatic goal -- to encourage all factions to join in the work on the bill, because it relates to about 11 million. Ukrainian citizens under 18 years of age. Among the other aims of the bill is the urgent need to find a way out of an extremely tense situation with the birth of children in Ukraine. The demographic crisis in Ukraine, its causes and consequences are said to be very much, including from this rostrum. Less than a year ago, we held appropriate parliamentary hearings. The adoption of this law by the Supreme Council will add real importance to the implementation of national policies in the field of child protection and, please note, will provide every Ukrainian child with a State guarantee of full development and contribute to its becoming a full member of society. Social Democrats are deeply united: in the twenty-first century, there is an impossible and senseless situation where children, and too much regret, are one of the most vulnerable groups of the population. We believe that the introduction of State insurance for newborns will be an effective mechanism that will really help solve the problem of the demographic crisis. It is not a secret that the uncertainty of tomorrow’s day, rather than a fad or any other factor, influences parents ’ decisions regarding the number of children in the family, and sometimes causes families to give up their children altogether. In addition, I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the special history of the creation of this bill. It was initiated and largely written by the young generation, which won the title "Better Bill in Support of Childhood" in the framework of the All-Ukrainian Competition for a Better Bill in the Field of State Policy, held by the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Socialist Congress of Young People in conjunction with the faction of the fall of last year. [[united]] That is, young people face the problem now before the state and the Supreme Council. And in our view, this situation forces the legislator to treat the bill properly, i.e. responsiblely. From the point of view of legal work towards social policy, the draft Ukrainian Law on National National Insurance for Newborn Children is of a fundamental nature: the development of legal norms in State social standards and social guarantees in relation to children, the development and development of State policies in the field of child protection. Childhood in Ukraine should be protected. And the second question I want to stop. As of March 14, Kiev is planning to increase its public transportation tariffs. It is expected that the city of Kiev will change prices to subway fares to one bracelet, bus and trolleybus, trams to 70 copies. The Chinese are facing a 50 percent and 100 percent increase in the cost of travel, which can significantly exacerbate their economic situation and affect the social situation in the capital. This decision does not appear to be based on Kiev’s 2004 socio-economic development programme, which predicts an increase of 13 - 15 percent by the end of this year. Given that prices for food in the city have risen to 18 percent, we believe that at the highest level of government, the issue of budgetary planning and price policy for the capital needs to be raised. We consider Mr. Omelchenk’s statement about rising prices for transport services as an example of contempt for the real needs and opportunities of the capital’s inhabitants. You cannot, without even waiting for the declared and insignificant increase in the profits of the Chinese, force them to pay almost twice for the trip. Today, more than 10,000 residents of Kiev have placed their signatures under the requirement of finding funds to cover expenses, providing transportation to the capital at the expense of the city’s budget, not to consumers. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is opposed to raising tariffs for transportation services in Kiev. [[united]] We call on the city of power to weigh and transparency in making strong socio-economic decisions, and I think this would not have happened if the work of the political council had been restored and had been filled with real meaning for the collective, transparent solution to the problems of the average Chinese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, Kaletnik. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday's discussion about the adoption of the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Social Welfare for Low-Supplied Families has brought us all back to the problems that have brought a huge burden on Ukrainian women. Our faction always supports the adoption of similar laws. But as I can see, the question needs to be solved in a large and complex way. And that's why. The spiritually beautiful Ukrainian people are referred to with a good heart as the most sacred thing we have, the very words of a woman’s kind. Earthly and heavenly, industrious and best in the world, an endlessly patient Ukrainian woman has not been in society in all our heroic, yet tragic, history. It is no exception to today. They are our mothers, our wives, and our daughters who share with their husbands all the joys and difficulties of forming a democratic state. It should also be borne in mind that the way of modern women is significantly different from that of their mothers. The United Nations considers those who exist less than one dollar a day to be poor. It is not difficult to estimate the number of such in Ukraine, and as women have increased the burden of domestic duties, it is figuratively said that a woman in her own home, primarily a rural woman, is the first to feel life’s difficulties and first to evaluate the decisions taken by parliament, government, and local authority. The woman has a significant influence on social attitudes at home and at work, and through men and large politics, and hence the growing role of women in the electorate system. Women are characterized by moderation in reforms, commitment to small business practices that gradually lead to strategic goals, axiom is that women, first of all, trust those who work honestly and really fight to improve the quality of life. Women’s qualities of political conduct are always designed to solve the family, educational, religious, moral, and medical problems of society. It is not easy to combine political activities, household activities, and raising sons and daughters as virtuous citizens of Ukraine. And the term "Sustainable Family" will never lose its relevance. That's why bringing the nation together with the idea of a shared house, a family in which a woman mother takes her place of honor is now relevant. The women’s question seems to be taken care of by many organizations, but their activity is dull, uncoordinated, and they often remind the deaf who sing together, sometimes in order, sometimes not, but most of them sing to themselves. To ensure the high, moral status of women in our society in order to create greater individual and economic freedom for them, I consider it appropriate to design and adopt, at the national level, a conceptual programme for the care of women. In my opinion, this is a matter for the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Children, and Young People, with no exception, and our dear women want optimism, kindness, love, and comfort in their homes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u173	I can so see that Lila Grigorovitch is ready to give you her time to continue. Please get Sherschun ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u174	Mikola Shershun, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! During hearings on child recovery, I addressed problems related to the absence of a financing mechanism for the rehabilitation of children in the so - called Chernobyl category. Today, I would like to focus on other problems and inadequacies related to decisions concerning affected territories, leading to the conclusion that the only central authority concerned with the problems of the accident in the CEMAC is a mistake. In particular, the situation surrounding the financing of health - care benefits is of great concern. This is about providing medicines and free recipes. Last year, less than 12 million were allocated to these needs, only 6 are planned, and the disease is on the contrary. For example, in just one. In 2002, there were 670 patients per thousand, and in 2003 there were about a thousand. I believe that the problem can be solved by increasing expenditures for these purposes at least twice. There are costs in the budget. We just need them literately, farmly distributed. For example, the internal redistribution of the funds provided for the special. Help. These funds are needed for other articles, one of which I have already named. I'm not going to stop at the pitiful again, a little more than 2 percent of what I need, financing the recovery of the victims. I'll say that with that approach, one child can only heal once every 12 years. In order to remedy the situation, I propose to delete paragraph 2, article 49 of the State Budget Act, which will allow for approval in the State Budget from. to centrally purchase travel for the rehabilitation of citizens with further distribution of purchased travel to conduct directly in the section of the respective administrative and territorial units in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the last. For the next year, for the Winnitz region, the sums of 2.3 million dollars have been proven for the comprehensive health care of citizens. Of course, this is more than a year ago. But in the first quarter, no cash was allocated for these needs. And even today, voters are asking questions. The documents for the operation are ready for the patient, and the money is not available. Officials say come to the second quarter. And you're sure that in the next quarter, who's going to get the money? I will note that in the area, such patients are already waiting for 180,000 dollars of relief money. In view of the above facts, on behalf of the profile committee, I would like to address Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich of Ukraine with a request to listen to the demands of the people's deputies, to the requests of the heads of district and district administrations and to a number of those regions that have suffered and left in the country the only central authority to deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Leszczenko, prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u176	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The criminal nature of the bourgeois authorities in Ukraine has recently been said to be very much. It is based mainly on deception, stealing from its own people. It's no wonder. Because that's the nature of capitalism in general, and in the initial stage in particular. There is no crime in the world that capitalism would not dare for its own profit. So it is not surprising that President Kuchma began his activities in 1994 to combat organized crime and corruption, which is infamous and inexhaustible, and ends his presidential mandate in the current year. He also makes a surprising appearance at times. He said where he came from. And all you have to do is look around and make everything clear. The competent authorities have stockpiled enough material for President Kravchuk's first, and they have not forgotten the second. What about the Prime Minister, for example Lazarus, Yashchenka and others? Or about Deputy Prime Minister Timoshenko, Cossack and with them. And yesterday, for example, law - enforcement sources have revealed the crime of a whole group of former ministers and their deputies. In the present system of things, crimes are exposed only to the former ones. That's what they call it. When one clan changes another, it immediately takes away the last previously looted one. The above applies to almost everyone who has ever been in the structures of a valid executive power. The president himself recently stated this with knowledge of the matter. As they spoke, they were still in power and were creating the regime that is now called antinational and then enjoyed well. The point is, the truth is, it's said from evil to the address of former government officials, who are now in the ranks of the parliamentary faction of "Our Ukraine" and BUT, but it applies to everyone. The crimes of Ukraine’s bourgeois power against its own people are: the looting of the people’s good; they have already reached the ground; the creation of inhuman conditions for the existence of the vast majority of the population, which has led to poverty and extinction; the constant moral and material abuse of the working people. And the authorities are also pretending to care for the people of Ukraine. At the very least, they have lost their sense of conscience. But the power to lose is not going to be lost. In recent times, there have been coalitions that have been discussed, and people have been harassed. Politicians well know that coalitions can create different political powers. What do they have? There is a group of capitalists in the Supreme Council, who have become national deputies through the administration of existing power, i.e. it's a uniform mass, and they claim the establishment of a parliamentary coalition. Then, along with their president, they form a so - called coalition government. Then they gather under the patronage of the President, create a parliamentary-government coalition. And the same has been said for days about the creation of a broad democratic coalition. And in the labor force, there is only one way to unite around the Communist Party of Ukraine and to establish Soviet power in this year’s presidential election, which is what I want for all of you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u177	Please, Grigorovitch. Prepare Bespalova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u178	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs, distinguished voters! When national MPs of Ukraine or any other parliament begin to read mass letters to their voters, but from that very small result or no effect at all, it all turns into a broadcast "You wrote to us, and we read to you." We experienced something like this in 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 when the Ukrainian prime ministers, respectively, were Desert Tenko, Lazarenko, Marchuk, when our voters did not get a salary of 8-10 months, and Deputy Every could bring here a bag of letters, stand and read about every citizen, as many months as he didn't get - 7, 10 or 11 of that salary. The situation was practically a journey until the government of popular trust, the government of Victor Yushchenk, and the payment of pensions and salaries began. Today I was forced to read a letter from my first teacher, perhaps for the first time in the history of my delegation in the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear friends, parents, and early teachers are especially remembered. My first teacher, Bashey Maria Ivanovna, who lives in the city of Ivano-Frankivsky, with great disbelief and great resentment, received in connection with the 43 years of teaching, the "Teacher of Education" and many other awards, including the "Participants of War" pension increase of up to 6 rubble, and today she gets 166. What should I do? Of course, I am delivering this letter from the rostrum, of course, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine Yanukovic, and I think that the tons and hundreds of those letters from the pensioners can be sent there, but the question is whether there will be a result, because today's biggest gain in Ukraine and today's government is being stressed, we have stability. The stability with the average wage of 205 dollars, the stability with the lowest pension in Europe and the SND, the stability with an increase of 2-3-6 dollars in the vast majority of pensioners. Whether my teacher will live to the next promotion, for if, as a result of the political reform carried out by the same authority and which appears to be with the help of the left factions, the Communists first, like the rocking of the same group, when, say, the Prime Minister will be Leonid Danilovich and Mr. Janukovic, President with a limitation of authority, and Mr. Medvedchuk, the speaker, will be raised by another 6 bracelets in 10 years. So is that a way out? And literally for the rest, about the bourgeois trends. There's this song: "Once upon a time they loved and separated, now they've come together again." I have a real member of the C.C. Politburo Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk behind me. And the President of Ukraine is former member of the C.C. Politburo Mr. Cuchma, and I would very much like these members of Politburo to be finally responsible for everything that's been going on with Ukraine for 12 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u179	Thank you. But President Kuchma was never a member of Politburo. Please, Bespallian, get Tomenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday I received another letter from the Attorney General's Office on a parliamentary request, this time under the signature of Deputy Henprocuror Olga Kolyko. Sources: As early as 97, two companies signed a joint venture to repair a burning building in Kharkiv. They agreed because ownership of the building was decided in a commercial court. Before that, one company asked the city’s head not to settle the land lease under the house until the property issue was resolved. The answer was positive. In 2001, the court recognized ownership of the Aqua-1. The issue of land was not considered in court. The decision was not challenged and gained legal force. Two months later, Aqua sold an unfinished building to Energoprom. Almost a year later, at the end of 2002, when all the legal terms of the charges came out, the Kharkiv Miskrad reportedly appealed to the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court with a cassational complaint that the decision of the Master’s Court had been annulled until a year ago. The court, for some reason, accepted this late complaint and overturned the ruling of the Master Court, by which the owner was designated "Aqua-1". And accordingly, the Energoprom Society, which legally, I emphasize, bought a building legally free of burdens and claims, suffered significant losses. But according to all lawlessness, there is a particular interest. Who put their eyes on someone else's hair? The High Court of Agriculture was reportedly approached by the Kharkiv Miskrad. So there was to be a decision made at her session, prepared and voted in a legal order. The terms of the cassation are time-consuming, the meaningful grounds for the complaint of the landowners are questionable, since they had no relation to the building, and the land lease was not considered by the court. So the matter was not relevant. The lawfulness of the landowner’s decisions should be controlled by the head of the State Administration and the prosecutor’s office. I asked them to check the legality of the questionable decision and to survive the appropriate steps to remedy it. But I repeat specifically to the Attorney General's Office: was there any decision of a board session as to how it would be, or was there a banal floor when someone waved a cassation complaint to usurp its rights? Second, the Master Court accepted a complaint in a timely manner. On three occasions I appealed to two general prosecutors to see if I had been legally accepted by the miscreant’s session for a cassation, or if someone had made a floor, and to give a legal assessment of the actions of those persons. Well, answers like Michael Gorbachev: You ask for one thing, you get another. So I repeat a question that I never got. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, I ask you to verify the legality of the decision taken by the Kharkiv Ministry of State to refer a cassation complaint to the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court in this case and ask for action to be taken to annul an unlawful decision. And I would like you to consider this statement to be my question to you, which I hope to finally get an answer in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Tomenko. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u182	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine was unable yesterday to support the decision on the situation around "The Village News" and there are enough discussions on this issue, as head of the parliamentary committee on freedom of speech and information, I would like to express my point of view on the situation that has taken place there. I'm surprised at the position of my fellow MPs and democratic Jews, who think they have the right to defend national dignity and the Ukrainians don't. So historically, when there's a discussion now, there's something different, or there's a particular problem where, for example, they want to close the 5 channel, or Radio Freedom, or Radio Roxx, from the Village News. For me, as head of the parliamentary committee, there is no fundamental difference between the media and the media that are closing down. I am absolutely convinced that there is a clear and clear line of government that wants to eliminate the media that supports democracy, which acts independently, objectively, in order to inform our citizens in the context of the presidential election campaign. And when, for example, I'm told that those media that draw attention to the dangers of Zionism, like ideologies, should be closed, and those media that say that, for example, nationalism is dangerous can work peacefully in Ukraine, I don't understand anything. I don't understand why we keep silent that Leonid Kuchma thinks it's the most popular and correct program. On the First National, where the terms "Naziism", "Fascism", "Nationalism" can be operated peacefully, not held accountable? Why does Leonid Kuchma start his life with online dating, where the disdain and discredit of opposition politicians is the norm, and nobody talks about it? Why did Leonid Kuchma officially protect those people who placed the Fascist symbolism boards in Donetsk, and no one is responsible? Why is it that in our country, the publications that Vadim Rabinovich publishes, I mean "The Table," Dmitri Gordon, I mean "The Boulevard," Victor Pinchuk, I call "The Facts," which are posted on their pages on the first and last pages and promote prostitution, which simply post information that on the phone for this kind of money you can order a woman where I'm a direct ban on the Criminal Code, nobody pays attention to this and doesn't close these newspapers? And a newspaper that talks about problems in relations between Jews and Jews should be closed. My position is clear and clear as the heads of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. My respectable Jewish Democrat friends! Always be consistent when it comes to democracy, not when it comes to protecting your interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u183	Thank you. I can't see Demyokin. Please, Melniczuk. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u184	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "The Socialist Party faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is deeply concerned about the situation which resulted in the preparation and conduct of a complex of spring and field work. The village today has no fuel-oil materials, no mineral fertilizers, no plant protection products. The farmers' credits have become inaccessible, and the long-term lending of farmers without which there is no way out of the crisis, and the healthy development of the agrarian sector is not at all in power plans, credit banks are failing, the critical situation in the food market is deeply rooted in adventurous reforms. Optimistic statements by the government, local authorities, about the readiness for spring show a crime of contempt for the village and a deep misunderstanding of the situation. The bread in Ukraine will continue this year, more than 40 percent of the winter in critical condition, about three million acres [3 million ha]. Mineral fertilizers are needed immediately to feed these areas, but where the cost of fertilizer is not available to farmers. For example, Chercas sell 723 bracelets, 813 bracelets, and 95 dollars abroad. For this reason, the faction repeatedly appealed to the government, made specific proposals for fertilizer prices, but the government and the finger did not move to meet the Ukrainian peasant yet to resist criticism of the security of agricultural producers by means of plant protection products, such as herbicides, at 19.18 percent. Today, more than 60 percent of the companies are practically unsupplied with fuel-oil materials, and diesel prices are 35 to 40 percent higher than this time last year. And it's 1,700, 1,740 dollars a ton, causing anxiety about the technical state of agricultural technology, which is capable of providing only 40 percent of the planned spring work, to the technological need, every third hectare of Ukrainian ore this year will remain untreated, irrigated, and this year will not be in the South. We're asking the authorities to produce oil from Ukrainian crops, to bring the fuel for the peasants to 1,000 or 1,100 dollars per tonne, to sell the peasants mineral fertilizers for 500 dollars per tonne. It takes three years for farmers to acquire the necessary amount of seed, to lend it to them. Introducing a 10-15-year-old long-term loan to farmers on March 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u185	Thank you. Thank you. Please, school to prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u186	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko's Julia Block faction, 121st constituency. Well, I'd like thesis to build my performance and the first "Village News." I wouldn't want to comment here at all, who? What? Where? Who? That's where I was criticizing. Let's take one short fact. The judge takes the decision and the administrative case draws the newspaper to criminal responsibility. Do you have any idea? Administrative Affairs, it's the lawyers here who are present, it's an administrative matter to bring criminal responsibility for fuelling national hostility. This is part of the Criminal Code. The matter was presented as an insult to honor and dignity. An image of honor and dignity is an admin. responsibility. That's the first one. The other one. The book of Yaremenka is not forbidden, is not condemned, is not proven to be an inflammation of international hostility, and the person who has reprinted the newspaper is closed. "Freedom" radio. Radio Freedom for commercial reasons was thrown out by owners of the political party SDPU (o), who now privatized the trust of the radio. Either you set up entertainment programs or we throw you off the air. Of course, it was an act of direct political genocide with regard to the media. One more. The government pushed here through the Supreme Council, through. Committees Act 4000-1. I will not comment there on alcohol and tobacco products because I lost my budget on certain preferences. But the bill states that now the law says that the VAT does not cover Ukrainian books, a Ukrainian period. Beautiful. The only thing to do is to make a warning that the non-patriotic government did it, not for patriotic reasons, but for economic reasons. And to me, once again, I support this lonely random decision of the government. But I would like to stress that even after the withdrawal of VAT, in Kiev, the book in Ukrainian costs between 30 and 50 dollars, in Russian, published in Russia, costs between seven and 15 dollars because it was smuggled here from Russia. Since it is a Russian - speaking book in Russia, a Ukrainian - language newspaper and a Ukrainian - language newspaper should also be sued. And in general, when I hear about deforestation in Zakartat, Carpathians, I'm starting to get confused. You know, there used to be this saying, "Don't cut off the woods, they'll be useful to us." We won't need those woods. We live in our country. And those who cut out these forests, think that we're going to hunt you down in these woods. We will not hide in them, you will hide in them. Because your time is up, our time is coming. And whoever's giving me anything in this situation, I'm stressing again, is going to be digging up those who are now trying to dig up the opposition. They will live in these trenches, defend themselves, and make proclamations about how the new authorities are persecuting them. I'm underlining that we're going to catch criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, Kostinuk. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u188	The National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! On February 16, 2004, it was 15 years old from the day the Ukrainian People's Movement programme was published in the newspaper Literaturna Ukraine. A document that synthesized as much as possible to make public at the time the Ukrainian people's desire for statehood, for democracy. Sadly, however, most of those state, political, and public figures who identify themselves as valid authorities failed, failed to act with civil courage, recognize the historic significance of this event, which meant a powerful burst of national consciousness and a self-awareness of responsibility for the fate of the Ukrainian nation. The legacy of the sacrificial heroic struggle of many generations of our people for the will of Ukraine. The social resonance generated by this publication has become a generator of the consolidated efforts of the national democratic forces to destroy the totalitarian imperial Soviet regime. And the Movement also got an understanding in support of its activities in society on such a scale and in such a level that it carried out the first part of its mission -- Ukraine became independent. And this was recognized by the whole world and the Movement is the organization that led Ukraine to independence. We remember that no matter who interpreted that memorable time. We are proud of this, no matter who likes it, to see that Ukraine's development will take place through the constitution of a democratic system and the development of civil society, the further formation of a socio-oriented economy on market principles, the strengthening of state independence, the restoration of Ukrainian spirituality and culture. We will come to the restoration of the role and place of our people as an equal member of the world democratic community and of Ukraine in the midst of the civilized states of the world. Even if anyone, even the Communists, did not sing this antinational regime. For days, a letter from the head of the People’s Movement was sent to the head of the SBU, the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs stating that the People’s Movement has been demanding an objective investigation into the DDR that killed the leader of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, Ukraine’s national deputy, the hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnowil. All this time, we get formal answers that just convince us that they don't want or can't carry out an objective investigation. Understandably, the so - called investigations of today’s law enforcement agencies have put themselves in the fifth corner. Numerous discrepancies in the responses of law enforcement officials have proved the objectivity and inadequacy of the investigation conducted. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u189	Please, Cloud, prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u190	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The current anti-national, anti-Ukrainian criminal and oligarchic regime has led to a total attack on the remains of democracy in the state, trying to legitimize and consolidate its long-term domination and the final looting of national wealth and the enslavement of the Ukrainian people. To this end, the governing criminal regime has embarked on a dangerous adventure with so-called political reform, the task of which is to preserve the power of the people in its own hands. Regrettably, the governing oligarchy was able to involve some politicians in this process from opposition under the demagogic slogan of the seemingly changing political system of power. There is now an intensive cleansing of the democratic field in Ukraine. This is an attack on independent media, the use of law enforcement agencies as repressive to the opposition to the regime of politicians, public figures, journalists, businessmen. President Kuchma has embarked on the practical realization of his promise to make the 2004 presidential election the most dirty. This is evidenced by his selection of the Central Electoral Commission led by the well - known, cynical lawbreaker Sergey Kiwalov. With such a CEC with a situation that has arisen in the judicial and law enforcement systems in the executive branch in place, it is futile to expect fair elections and a change of power through elections in a peaceful environment. The guarantee of democratic elections can only be guaranteed by the public will of the people through mass protests against the criminal regime. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party, look in the mirror and you see yourself with the oligarchs, and there you will understand who you are protecting, trying to destroy the Constitution. So don't stick your fingers to the real opposition, to the opposition that really advocates the national interests of Ukraine, the interests of the people. You've saved the Kuchma regime in your time, and today you're trying to save him too. So let's just get out of your mind and don't go fooling around with the unfortunate members of the Company who honestly believe you. I think it's time, and the revolution is heating up! Long live the democratic revolution!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u191	Please, Chernewsky, get ready for Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u192	The distinguished Chairman, the distinguished people's deputies, the listeners who hear us, God will give them! "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party Ukraine, Darnicke constituency, Leonid Chernovetski. I want to say what lives in my soul and what I realize in the Supreme Council and what I consider most important. Of course, these are issues of social justice. And I have passed a very important bill, and I want everyone who hears us in this room to know that all the privileges that exist in other branches of government today are eliminated. This is a very serious problem because today there is a huge gap between those who exercise power and ordinary citizens, because there are special clinics, holiday homes, different hotels and all that property for billions and billions of dollars. I passed this bill with it. that these assets could be sold and calculated with our citizens not by death, but by life, by savings that exist, by savings. And it's very important. I need the support of voters and those who listen to me, because this is the only way to calculate savings books. And in the past Parliament, I have passed such a bill, but it has not even been brought before the debate. And I have no other way of discussing it here. I want to tell you, distinguished voters, because the people's deputies probably know that in Ukraine, even the chiefs of the jacks are already on the move for 100,000 dollars, not to mention the other smoldering bosses who have been broken up in Ukraine. A hundred-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that-that. The kind of outrage that we have in the country today is even hard to imagine. I call on the government, please, who can hear us! And I'll tell you, when I go to the Cabinet of Ministers, many welcome me with my speeches, because they don't have Mercedes. Please sell your damn Mercedes, count with your pensioners. It's very important. Well, of course, I want to say good-bye to everyone who listens to us because I confess the Christian idea: call your parents, it's very important, they're waiting for your call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u193	Thank you. I just don't understand why say goodbye. So you're calling for your Mercedes? Nosenko. Prepare Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u194	Thank you. Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction, Chernigovishte. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. I would like to state my position on pension reform in Ukraine on the matter of coming to me with a letter from the Federation of Montenegrin Trade Unions. The information on previous calculations of pension increases in the Chernigiv region for 85 inhabitants up to 10 bracelets gives a clear understanding that my countrymen have received a massive hole in the bubble, not an improvement in their material state, due to an increase in pensions. If you give examples of a rapid rise in prices for products and commodities, the picture of a large part of the population is completely dissuasive. The Government's adoption of Decree 1783 on measures to improve citizens' pensions violates the constitutional rights of the people of Ukraine. The above-mentioned regulation has artificially reduced the average salary rate in Ukraine in 2002 from the actual 376 dollars determined by the Ukrainian State Department and published by the government authorities to 306 dollars, resulting in a 20 - percent reduction in pensions for current retirees. The principle of the fairness of the dependency of pensions on employment and the extent of the income involved in the implementation of pension reform has virtually not been achieved. The question is, "Why does a large number of Ukrainian national deputies vote for the adoption of laws that enable the government not only to do them but to nullify them by its decrees? Because the Communist faction has repeatedly warned that in such a way, the Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance will be a fictitious and no significant increase in pensions for the main population. Simply put, the long ears of the government have long been removed from this law. That is why we, the Communists, did not vote in favour of such a pension reform, but offered our own option, which was not supported by most of the deputies for known reasons. In recent times many factions have voted in favour of this law, earning political capital, have heroically fought against the will of the government. Infamous determination and gossip to spread about Communist lies. I personally do not think that it is necessary to use the word lies to give political color, for lies are said to be lies in Africa. But do not think that our people are not as intelligent as you think they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u195	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anisimov 30 constituency, Dneprodžinsk, Petrikovsky Village. A faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Respectable radio listeners, adopted on first reading, the new Labour Code of Ukraine, without any exaggeration on the neck of a person who earns his or her life by honest work. And in order not to pour crocodile tears, as was the case with the law on compulsory pension insurance, it is necessary to consider the consequences of the adoption of the law as it exists today. Trade union organizations on the ground, unlike their Kiev leadership, immediately understood the anti-national and anti-working nature of the bill and sought the root reprocessing of its most draconian provisions. Last week, the Dnepropetrov Regional Trade Union, together with the Dnepropetrov Round of the Company of Ukraine, held a round table condemning the problems of combating the bill. The meeting was attended by the heads of all regional political party offices with their representatives in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And not one of them, I stress, has not found the words justifying the draft Labour Code to be drafted. Little had been said in the forum that labour groups were constantly receiving negative reactions from all parts of Ukraine. The Government's decision to approve the Code was severely criticized. The discussion resulted in a request from the participants of the meeting of Kabmin, the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine to prevent the adoption of the Labour Code in Parliament without fully amending and supplementing the working group of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. The address was signed by the heads of the regional offices of the 12 political parties, including the Communist, Democratic, Social and Democratic People's Republic of Ukraine, the People's Movement, the Industrial and Business Party, the Agrarian Party and some others. [[Joint]] The representatives of the “Regions” and the People's Democratic Party did not sign. The Communists have already amended the first reading of the project in our deep conviction, and this project requires not only a radical process, but also a change in the concept itself, otherwise, the impact on the work force's neck will be definitive and the trade unions will finally lose their role in the protection of workers' interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, Rodionov. Get ready for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u197	Dear radio listeners, national deputies, honourable chairman, my speech is about one person's problems not at all, not the whole world, but only one person, but I can't help but touch the moment that one of the speakers spoke about the Communists looking into the mirror. I want to tell you every day I get up, I look in the mirror, and there's not one oligarch behind my back. What's more, once I get as many oligarchs as the hell out of me, yeah. Yeah, that's one question, and it's not a threat to the communists. The other one. As for the revolution, the reverend radio listeners, you know there aren't many of us in the hall. But the revolution -- first of all, it calls for a change in social order. When it comes to replacing one, it is said, the President, the other President, with the same capitalization or capitalism, as my esteemed Solomonine, a Communist by faction, says, is the same thing. As far as the question I've come out with is concerned. Adam Ivanovich, this is about, unfortunately, the Supreme Council. Man, Strižov's citizen came to me with a letter. She has been working at the Construction Office of the Supreme Council for more than a decade. But since this office had moved from the Ukrainian Compartium C.C. to the Supreme Council, what it had done there was two or three years of C.C. Competitives, it had not been accounted for. And the new government believes that it only works for seven or eight years. According to the Housing Code, she is not allowed to live in a dormitory. But she worked malaria, by the way. In the dorm. The Code provides that if she has worked for 10 years, she can be provided with a new apartment by evicted from her dormitory. What do you think she's doing in court? The court also decides: de facto it lived and worked and de jure did not work. This is kind of a decision of the Constitutional Court when Leonid Danilovich Kuchma de facto was two terms President and de jure said he was only one term President. And a lot of people like her. I mean, honourable people's deputies, we have to support these people. Otherwise, most of this room, which grew up in Soviet times, received education, awards, pensions, had to give up that job and start reporting since 1991. I request that my statement be considered as a parliamentary request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvina. All necessary documents have been drawn up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u198	Thank you. The Secretariat. Please, Novak, and we're done. Seven came from our Ukraine. It's the sixth of the Communist factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! Recently, many appeals have been made to my name by retired military personnel, BSS pensioners, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the pension imbalance of former military personnel, militia personnel, and the State Security Service. This imbalance has become possible due to the fact that the legal provisions of Ukraine's pension scheme for military personnel have undergone numerous changes and additions, namely: the basic financial security from which the pension of military personnel was determined has been repeatedly supplemented by additional forms of financial security, allowances and allowances, which in turn has led to the emergence of a process of increasing the difference between the pensions of military personnel released before and after 1992. More complaints were raised after August 1, 2003. Only at the Hmělničina did this arrangement put more than 10,000 military pensioners in unequal conditions with his colleagues. Today, the flag’s pensions are about twice as high as that of the colonels who were released to the reserve by August 1, 2003. And the pensions of the military officers of the equivalent positions released before and after August 1, 2003 differ about four times. I can't say the authorities don't see it. But seeing a problem and doing something to solve it, quite different things. On February 23, last year, Presidential Decree No. 173 issued on strengthening the social protection of military personnel and members of the military and primary internal affairs bodies, which has been entrusted to the Government of Ukraine with the task of preparing and making proposals to increase the level of pensions, taking into account the opinion of all interested central executive authorities. Offers have been collected from places to sort out the problem, but the vehicle is said to be there now. After the President's decree, nothing was done by the executive authority. Does the President know about this? I think so. And if you know, by now, why are military pensioners, BSS pensioners, divided into blacks and whites, and why does the pension gap remain? Because the President’s decree provided for three steps to solve the problem, but all the deadlines had passed, and nothing had changed. It is extremely sad to note that the guarantor of the Constitution allows for violations of the constitutional rights of a well-deserved population, such as military pensioners who protected the people, the State and the guarantor themselves, and served as believers and the truth, often risking their lives. We are all in debt to them, and above all, to the state. And these debts need to be repaid. The President and the government must be the guarantor of these debts. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u200	Thank you. Well, Kirilchuku, give me one minute, please, and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u201	Eugene Kirilchuk, militia of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland I want to dedicate my speech to one very important fact that is happening in Ukraine. Important social problems include protecting the rights of victims of Ukrainian radiation pollution when testing nuclear weapons in Semipalatinsk. The ranges. For a long time, I have been approached by Ukrainian citizens who have lived at various times, worked in Kazakhstan in a nuclear testing zone, or in an area of increased radiation risk, and then returned to Ukraine with significant doses of radiation and severe diseases and became disabled. They turn out because they still have the hope that this issue will move from a dead point of view, that the state will take them for protection as Chernobyls, war invalids, other socially vulnerable people. To compare, I'll tell you how concerned the state of Kazakhstan is. As early as December 18, 1992, there was a law on social protection for such citizens. This law applies to all residents or citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan throughout the former Soviet Union. But it does not spread to Ukrainians. As a result of these two years of citizens' appeal to me, I have been asked by many deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve this problem. Some of them had answers, notes, promises. I've been asking questions over and over again, because over a long period of time, we have basically the same officials, although ministers change, they keep the receipts, and the visa and now there. Such letters were addressed to the President, Prime Minister Kinach, Prime Minister Yanukovic and many others. Practically promises were from all ministries and departments that had any bearing on this issue -- both the Ministry of Defence, and foreign affairs, and social protection, and a number of others. Everyone promises to make commissions, they work. But these notes go on for two years. I ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to take this matter under control and those promises made on behalf of the MPs. And this is to be sent once again as a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Yanukovich to be set a deadline when the matter will be completed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the people will be granted appropriate benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to the extent possible, all those who wanted to take part in the "Variance" spoke, we will conclude. Unfortunately, there's no Stepan Ilkovich here who's been addressing the Company's leadership, and I want to answer the line. Yes, there is opposition and opposition. The opposition he represents and calls opposition is in opposition to the chairs of the high officials, and their opposition is to sit on these chairs alone. And there's opposition from the communists, who are now in opposition to existing power. In terms of the speeches that the National Fellows have raised here, I ask the Secretariat, since there have been appeals regarding questions, to form them as queries. But I'm talking to the people's deputies: let's do it properly and not just do it -- and consider that the questions, let the leadership of the Supreme Council do it. There's a rule, there's order, let's listen. Today, I ask you to form more, and we will continue to do so. There's no problem. The questions put forward are, however, not voted on, simply announced by the chairman and accordingly acquired in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of an official document which is sent to a particular department. Finishing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-20-m0.u203	Please. Eugene Ivanovich, this is not just about you. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about everyone who's made the same proposals. And to conclude, dear colleagues. Looking at the leader of the Party of Fatherland Defenders, let me welcome, on your behalf, all the defenders of the country: and those who served, and among us, I know, there are many of them, and especially those who today are in the ranks of military units, and all the more so beyond our Fatherland, - with this truth the universal festival and wish that every Day of the Protector of the Motherland would bring them only joy. I remind you that next week, February 23 - 27, we work in constituencies. Next, the next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 o’clock in the spring of March 2. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
