ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, let's register. [[10:01:53]] Registered -410 A total of 410 national deputies were registered. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich, Cechmistrez Vitalia Grigorovovich and Czernovola Taras Vijacheslavovich, who are now in his early 40 ’ s. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them not to hear such announcements from the session hall for another year. Dear colleagues, we need to consider making an oath to the National MP. On 28 May 2004, the Central Election Commission registered with the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fix Efim Zisević, elected on 31 March 2002 in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office as Ukrainian national deputy, national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite you to make an oath to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fix Efim Zisyevich. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine! I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u3	We welcome our newly elected colleague as the national deputy of Ukraine. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform. About the entry of Ukraine's national deputy, Fix Efim Zissević, into the membership of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party. [[united]] Another statement to the chairman at the meeting. "I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies. Please announce my application at the meeting of the Supreme Council. National Deputy of Ukraine Dobkin." Dear National Deputies! You have a list of questions to consider. Today, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 12 May, we are scheduled to hear at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 1 June 2004 information from the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the outcome of the investigation of the situation that took place during the election of the city chief of the town of Mukachev Zakarpatski district, as well as information from the head of the working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of its work. Again, the question has been asked. After hearing the question. Dear colleagues, once again, we are considering this issue today in accordance with the Supreme Council’s ruling. In line with the Supreme Council's ruling. It is suggested that such a rule be proposed. I repeat, the question has been asked. Reporter from the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, from the Ukrainian Security Service and Zinchenko for five minutes. Don't! Five minutes. Five minutes to answer the questions. It's consistent with the decision. That's right. That's right. Once again, the agenda was agreed on May 26 at the Conciliation Council. Sit down, please. If you don't want to listen. And I know, and I know. Please see when the chairman can announce the recess. The chairman may or may not announce a recess is the first. And the others. The beginning of the question. Because I know what it says. Yes, please, three minutes out of the procedure. Sign up. Please explain. Lebedivsky. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u5	Cooking microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, you didn't start to consider this question, and you even looked at the session hall that was working, so you don't have to be evil. That's the first one. Secondly, according to the decision of the Conciliation Board, specific officials are required to appear outside the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am these specific officials, who are listed in the decree to which we are to carry out this issue, I do not see them. So I would ask that you announce a recess so that we can find out these circumstances so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can work in the legal field. Do this, please, so that we do not violate the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u7	Please, Buttercup. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u8	Please give the floor to the leader of the Petr Mikolaiovich Simonek faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u9	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, the Communist faction sincerely, warmly welcomes you with today's Children's Day, and we hope that the Supreme Council will also consistently defend the interests of future citizens of our Ukraine. So a faction of Communists suggests that Project 2333 be considered immediately. This is about orphans who are deprived of parental care. This problem has been in the hands of the Supreme Council for several years now. And the second. The Communist faction insists that a secret regime vote on the withdrawal of our military contingent from Iraq. To put and vote on more than just inclusion and to consider the content of the prohibition of the privatization of "Criminals". And the third. The faction strongly insists that the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers be suspended 509, 510, which divided the national deputies into white and black and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u10	Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u12	Ice cream microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u13	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Our faction held a field meeting last Friday at the Crevystall, and we received further arguments that warrant the inclusion in the order of the day of the issue of the two decrees, more loyally by several bills: the decrees to suspend the privatisation of the Crevyzstal Congregation and the information of the Cabinet of Ministers on the administration of state parts of property. This must be done. The other one. Today, the sharp questions are gasoline. We have registered draft Law 5570, and it must be considered if we are to help people. Also, since we had foretold in the Conciliation Council that appropriate officials would report on Mukachev, we should ensure that they were present at the meeting when we consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u14	At the request of two factions -- the Socialist Party and our Ukraine -- there's a 30-minute recess. My 10:32. At 10:42 p.m., we're holding.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u15	Who's from the factions? Please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u16	It has been a month and a half since the election of the city’s capital, Mukacheva. Already today, numerous facts of gross and cynical falsification of voting results have been published and direct involvement in crimes committed by individual officials of the State. Carnations have been transformed into one complete criminal area. The whole of Ukraine and the whole world are convinced with their own eyes that the regime today in Ukraine has nothing to do with democracy, and those who have usurped power are seeking authoritarianism. Corruption, lawlessness, and crime have become the key card for the martyr’s election. In his cynicism, the authorities crossed the line. Democratic decorations of power. The whole world has seen behind them a handful of dictatorships. Because a democratic society cannot be called a society that ignores the idea of a single legislative body regarding the release of persons involved in martyrdom. That is why the impunity - intoxicating leadership of the IMF has already openly claimed that the police will be used in future presidential elections as an armed force. What can be said about the Prime Minister who allows himself to be spoken of in a similar way? An alarm is triggered by an attempt to play a martyr's card in a new game. This is about a statement by Ernst Nuser, an illegal city head, motivated by his resignation by threats to his address. It's a familiar provocative handwriting. For political adventures, certain political forces are ready to bring human life, as was the murder of the deputy head of the government of Johno-Frankow region of Mikola Scribljak. We warn the challengers and their patrons of the inevitable responsibility for the planned provocation and its consequences. The cynical inaction of the Attorney General’s Office is a cause of great concern. With numerous evidence of the commission of crimes and the direct involvement of specific officials in these crimes, the Office of the Prosecutor - General has refused to commit criminal offences in the facts, rather than conducting a pretrial investigation into the existence of hooliganism. The walls of the Supreme Council publicly and documented all the complete evidence of the falsification of electoral documentation. The Attorney General doesn't do anything. The faction of "Our Ukraine" sees the henprosecutor of Ukraine as a sign of crime. Vasilyev stubbornly and cynically refuses to carry out his legal duties. Even now it has become clear that Vasiliev’s appointment as Attorney General of Ukraine was to be finally strengthened in his impunity. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" requires Vasiliev's immediate resignation from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. And here is the presentation of the first persons of the ministries and departments and offices and the human rights officer, Mrs. Carpochova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that on 12 May we adopted a decree on the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the course of the investigation of the circumstances that took place during the election of the city's head of the town of Mukachevo Zakarpatsk district. In this Order, paragraph 7 states: "To hear at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 1 June 2004 information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the outcome of the investigation of the situation during the election of the city head of Mukachevo Zakarpatska District, as well as information from the head of the Working Group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of her work." In accordance with the Order, once again, before the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the extraordinary meeting of the Conciliation Council on 26 May, we considered this issue, and on the demand of a number of factions, first of all the factions of "Our Ukraine" concluded, most of the Conciliation Council agreed that it was today June 1st to hear such information, even though there were thoughts that we might not hear anything new, because we were literally recently listening to information. But the Conciliation Council concluded by a majority that we would be the first to hear the matter today. It's today. Please do not run the Supreme Council of Matthew. Today you and I have asked this question. If anyone has other proposals, they will be put to the vote because the decision of the Supreme Council cannot be overturned. There is neither Carpathian nor Matvienne, nor others. It's clearly listed here, and I'll stress it again. Don't come up, please, I'm saying there's no name Karpachov, Matvienka in determination. And I emphasize that we are guided by the Supreme Council's ruling to listen to today. There's a list of people. If national MPs do not want to listen to the first person, and here we have, for example, a minister of the interior of Ukraine, acting as minister, more loyally, Zuk said that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is currently being dissipated, so in plenary session with the results of the investigation of the situation during the elections of the city’s head, Mukachev Zacarpatsky, the first deputy minister in connection with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikhail Vasilovich, will speak. I had a conversation the other morning with the Attorney General. He informed us that because of our employment, the information would be provided by the Deputy Attorney General, who was responsible for this investigation. So, honourable colleagues, you and I have two options, or we're going to listen to the question right now, or if we don't listen to it, we need a decision from the Supreme Council to pass on the matter. Here, please sign up, let's exchange. Please explain for three minutes. Durres, follow him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u18	Please, the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u19	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I draw your attention to this situation. The Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights makes it very clear that it is not necessary to include an intervention authorized to the day’s work in the event that the authorized person considers that there is a basis for talking about a particular nature of the crime and to inform the deputy body. As far as I know, the authorized Supreme Council has this kind of information. So it seems to me that we just have no legal basis not to listen to the one authorized to do so. So I would very much ask that we still act in accordance with the legal field and that, without including in the agenda, we allow the authorized one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u20	Please, Zybenko. Behind him is the Wheeler.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u21	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction of Cibenko. I think we have good reason, considering both the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the development of a situation that is developing quite rapidly, yet today to consider this issue, to make the right decision and to move on. Because it seems that someone is more interested in the result than in the process itself. We have many urgent questions to consider and decide on. In particular, we need to make decisions about the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq, and there's no way our boys are there. We need to make decisions about the situation around the privatization of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combined. I mean, the faction insists that, as envisaged today's agenda, consider this issue within the limits of what is supposed to be the decision-making process and move forward in the way of solving the urgent problems that are in the interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u22	Please, Wheeler.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u23	Please give the floor to National Deputy Bandurko Alexandro Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u24	Please, Bandurko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u25	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Democratic Initiatives MP group, the People's Authority, insists on working on the agenda. And now listen to information from the Attorney General's Office, the Department of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service and Zinchenko. And move forward on the order of the day, making the right decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, it's Matthew's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u27	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Adam Ivanovich, I think that the absence of the first leaders today is an indicator of how strong the structures and their first persons view the Supreme Council today. This is not the first time. But I took a line on that, and I asked you and I'm addressing today all the deputies, the Institute of Human Rights Commissioners and the Supreme Council. We're looking at the question of human rights violations in Mukachevo, I don't see the logic at all, Adam Ivanovich, of doubting that when he asks this institution to give us information, to forbid this information to be done. That's eloquent. The Supreme Council cannot show such disrespect. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, there is no need for decisions. I'm asking you to include five minutes of Carpachov in order for her to provide information on the human rights issue of Mukachev. And not to discuss this problem, I think all MPs support it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u28	Thank you. I'm calling on all the national MPs to support this proposal. Once again, if we were to listen to a question without the Supreme Council's ruling, that's another thing. We could go with you and not vote in the sessional council, be determined by one position or another. Since the decree clearly records the four officials to be heard, the decision taken by the Supreme Council may be amended. And once again, I'm going to put your proposal to the vote. If the Supreme Council will listen to Karpachov for a change of decree of May 12, we will listen to the human rights officer. I don't see anything here that's not in our laws. But once again, the chairman cannot solve this issue. We don't have a discussion today either. Today, there are only four informations. After five minutes of information, five minutes of answers to questions. Therefore, at the request of a part of the people's deputies, I am asking for a vote: who, apart from the ones listed in our decree, in the May 12 decision on information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Security Service on the course of the investigation of the circumstances that took place during the election of the city's head of the city of Mukachev, to add that to listen to today's information other than the persons mentioned, the authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights of Karpachev. Please vote. [[10:54:46]] For 232 So we've made a change to the ruling with you. We will listen to appropriate information. Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine is 97, the "Regions of Ukraine" is 0, the Communist faction is 58, the SDPU is 0, the "Deminitiate" is 0, the "Deminitives" is 1, the "Powers" is 20, the "Timoshenko Block" is 19, the "Centre" is 15, the "Soyuz" is 0, the "NDP" is 0, the "Industrials" is 12, the "Agrarian Party" is 2, the "Afterfraction" is 8. So, your honors, be careful: in view of what we've changed with you, we're going to listen to everyone, but instead of the 45 minutes we've been taking, it's going to be 55 minutes, because we're going to add 5 minutes to the information, to the answer, to the information of Carpathian. So each of the reporters is going to have five minutes to perform and five minutes to ask questions. Please, I invite you, for information, to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Oglomsh Mikola Yakimovovich, Jaroslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u29	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. It's been three weeks since you gave me the latest information. During this time, much has been done to determine the circumstances of the crimes committed during the elections in the city of Mukachev. In particular, a criminal case has been brought before the court concerning four persons who have committed hooligan acts at the number one constituency. A criminal investigation has been completed following the fact of the hooligan events in Electoral Division Three, during which bodily injuries were inflicted on Ukrainian national deputy Polishku. The defendant is familiar with the material of the criminal case. With regard to the criminal case of kidnapping of electoral documents and other violations, more than two thousand investigations have been carried out at present, one thousand 28 persons have been questioned, including the re-appointed 12 forensic experts, 959 documents have been removed, including the records of the district commissions, 12 requests for the necessary information have been sent to the investigation, nine orders have been given to the intelligence authorities to carry out the search and search. Thanks to the National Deputies, videocassettes have been used to conduct numerous reviews of documents and videos that have produced 731 photographs that have contributed to the establishment of a number of perpetrators. A review of the situation and the circumstances was carried out, and 118 appeals by Ukrainian national deputies were considered. With a view to clarifying the circumstances set out in the applications and appeals made by the national deputies, 44 national deputies were questioned and 15 did not appear to have a negative impact on the operationality of the criminal investigation. Some national MPs questioned point to a violation during the election. At the same time, some of the national deputies and interrogated members of the district election boards, other witnesses deny such cases that it is not possible to make a decision on the matter today, and the investigation is forced to take additional steps to determine the objective circumstances. Some national MPs point out that they have more than 30 original protocols of the local electoral boards that testify to Baloga’s victory, of which only 8 were issued by the national deputy Ivancho and, despite the repeated demands of the rest of the originals of these protocols, have not been made available to the investigation. During the examination of the testimony of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Corrections in the Electoral Commission Protocol No. 10 for Nuser’s candidates, additionally questioned members of the territorial electoral commission deny such a fact. At present, efforts are being made to eliminate contradictions, to establish an international overseer who, in the words of Zvaricz, could confirm the circumstances of a violation of the law. In the case, there is a number of scientific studies on the setting of the day of validity of the signatures of members of the constituencies on the copies of the records issued by the national deputy Ivancho and the witnesses during the interrogations. More than 750 experimental and free signatures have been placed at the disposal of experts. The completion of the study is expected sometime in June if experts do not need additional samples. With regard to the recommendation contained in the Supreme Council's decision to protest by the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office, I would like to point out that article 48 of Ukraine's law on the election of members of the local councils of rural, rural and urban heads provides for only a judicial order to challenge such decisions. Article 20 of the Ukrainian law on the prosecutor’s office does not give the prosecutor the right to protest the decision of the electoral commissions. In addition, the Ukrainian National Deputies’ Group to the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the Supreme Council’s decision in connection with the events in Mukachev also refers to the fact that the Prosecutor’s Office is not in a position to protest the election committee’s decision, so it is only after the Constitutional Court’s verdict has been handed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u30	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Five minutes. Bondarenko, prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Balozhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u32	Please, Baloga's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u33	Dear speaker! You're talking about giving you eight protocols. I still can't hear the results of the expertise on these protocols. At the same time, you have a video recording of the fourth district where the head of the district commission announces the results of the election, where Baloga won with great advantage. At the same time, the head of the district commission gives a completely different picture at the court. And you have records of that, too. I want to hear from you what's going to be the reaction at least in the fourth district, where you can clearly see the counterfeiting of the election of the city's head?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u34	Dear Victor Ivanovich! I want to tell you that the process of document research is not an assessment of the investigator and the person who issues the document. Clearly, this requires a number of objective measures that will provide the basis for the document to be included in the evidence. It's a trial study. And the investigation is now simply using all procedural points to confirm objectivity, and decisions will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u35	Mikola Jaroslavovich, wait. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Filenko! Dear colleagues! You ask questions, you want answers. If you are dissatisfied with the answers, you will find that the answers are correct. Because if there is a discussion, others will not ask questions. You don't have to do this. Please. You're not happy with the answer. You're not satisfied with the answer. Please, Rodionov, follow him Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u36	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear reporter,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u37	Mikola Jaroslavovich, listen to the question from the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u38	Dear reporter, your report confirmed that the electoral process in Ukraine was irrevocably criminal. Tell me, please, how do you see a way out of this situation, no matter who wins?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u39	I don't think the investigating authorities are dealing with such issues. In my opinion, however, the issue of the accusation of legal and correct decisions must be resolved. Because the court’s ruling or ruling on such a case is final and is not subject to a charge. And the prosecutor is deprived of the ability to influence such a process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u40	Please, Bandurka. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u41	Dear reporter, do you think the police should protect the ballots directly? If so, what normative document should it be governed here: either by a treaty or by the commission of the Central Election Commission or by a local or other legislative act? What legal basis does the police have for interfering with the electoral commission by protecting themselves by taking responsibility for the preservation of ballot papers? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u42	If we consider this matter from the standpoint of the law, it is clear that there is no need for any reason, no more loyal protection is needed. But this is not regulated by law. When it comes to democratic, normal, legal elections. And when there is an extreme situation, the decision is taken by the appropriate electoral commission and the executive body.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u43	Please, Grosjev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u45	Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u46	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter, please make it clear that beating national MPs is a disgrace to find some methods of opposition, forging elections and resisting the level of non-voting are also unacceptable things. We're going to the presidential election now. Please tell me, what authority does the prosecution need to ensure that it is not repeated in our presidential election? Please tell me what needs to be changed in legislation so that the next presidential election goes through democratically, honestly, without falsifications? You've analyzed the entire Mukachevo process, what do we need to do in order to avoid discussing such issues in the session room?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u47	In my opinion, the law is a public matter, not a political one, and it needs to be followed by everyone. I believe that if everyone adheres to the law first, there will be no problems. With regard to the prosecutor’s credentials, we are, in fact, required to be empowered to do so today. I believe that this bill, which has now been introduced with regard to amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Please sit down, Mikola Jaroslavovich. First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 12 May this year, within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I will report on the results of criminal investigations that were committed during the elections of the city's head in Mukacheva. There were four criminal cases in the conduct of internal affairs. First. The hooliganism at the polling station number one of the cities of Mukachev. According to a deputy attorney - general, four active offenders were drawn to the locals on May 26. This is a criminal case with an arraigned indictment, addressed to the Mukatov City Court for trial. The criminal case in relation to other undetermined participants in the hooligan act has been singled out, and the pretrial investigation is ongoing. The second criminal case, which was violated by the Mukatov City Police Department according to the fact of the hooligan actions regarding Harkov in the polling station number eight. So far, it's being investigated by the U.M.S.O. Third. May 20 was violated by the Muchakov City Department on the basis of a hooliganic action at the polling station number three, during which slight bodily harm was caused to the Ukrainian national deputy of Poland. It is also being investigated by the U.M.S.O. of Ukraine in the Zakartat region. The person who beat up the national MP is in place. On May 27, she was charged. Fourth right. Regarding the hooligan actions taken against the MP of the city council of Maksimov On April 20, says Maximov, when he was on his way home, two unknown young men came running, one of whom struck him with a stick. On April 22, Maximov applied to the Mukatov City Department for bodily harm. A criminal case is being taken into custody by the Mukatov City Investigation Department, a task force is being set up, a plan is being drawn up, follow-up is being carried out, and operational investigation is ongoing. In four other criminal cases involving the prosecution, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine reported in detail. In these cases, police officers within the framework of the current legislation carry out separate tasks of the prosecution. On May 28th, the Mukatov City Department issued a statement by the city’s head Nuser that unknown persons are monitoring his homes, stalking him, and threatening him on his home and mobile phones for a period of one and a half weeks. The application is duly registered, and its investigation is carried out. Since the actions of undeclared persons show signs of a crime envisaged in article 350 of the Criminal Code, a threat or violence against a public official or a citizen who carries out a public duty, a decision has been taken to refer the collected materials to the Public Prosecutor's Office for the purpose of resolving the matter of a criminal offence. At present, we are carrying out a necessary set of quick - searching measures to install those who violate Nuser’s designated physical protection. In view of such a situation, Nuser, on May 28, this year, at the session of the Mukachev City Council, assumed the authority of the city’s head. And the last. The actions of police officers of the Carpathians have been carefully analyzed in an official investigation conducted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. As previously reported, in general, the protection of public order during the preparation and conduct of the city’s head in Mukachevo was carried out according to our authority. However, in some polling stations, calculations were made in law enforcement after the elections were completed and the ballots were calculated. For this, the head of the torturer’s City Department, Dernov, was relieved of his position, and the rest of the officers were drawn to other types of disciplinary responsibility. Deputy Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Chief of Public Security Tsanku, has been declared a severe dogan, First Deputy Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Rusin Dogan. With regard to Warzaba and Rusin, there are no grounds for dismissal from the occupied posts of the Zacarpathian governor of Warzaba and his first deputy chief of staff, Rusin. Criminogenic situation in Carpathian territory has not deteriorated, there is the lowest crime rate of 10,000 people in the region of 22.3, in the state of 40.2. Deliberate killings, serious bodily harm, burglaries, and so forth have been reduced. I would like to point out that from the citizens of Mukachevo, the constituencies of the electoral process, during April-April complaints and applications to the internal affairs authorities for violations of their electoral rights, there were no relatively wrong actions by the employees of the internal affairs bodies. Report completed. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u50	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up, please, for five minutes, Koval. Prepare Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u51	National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Roman the cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u52	Please, the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear reporter! You know, article 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure requires that the Public Prosecutor's Office violates a criminal case in every case of possible crime. So I'm asking you a specific question: did you get a warrant from the prosecutor's office to conduct a pre-trial investigation under the 158th article, i.e. by falsifying the results of the elections, did you get a warrant from the prosecutor's office to conduct a pre-trial investigation under the 157th article, in the 351st article -- to obstruct the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy, after 357 -- to kidnap and embezzle documents, images and so on? So please specify on which articles you have been commissioned by the prosecutor’s office to conduct an investigative investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u54	Thank you. We know we're in. These are the articles that have been followed up by the prosecutor’s office. We don't get a warrant from the D.A.'s office to file criminal cases, we get orders to conduct a search and rescue operation. That's what we're doing. I've already reported on the case in which the ballot papers were stolen, and we're doing the search and search in accordance with the orders given by the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u55	Please, Samofalov, get ready for Nosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u56	I reported on what things we're working on. I've reported to you fully on what matters we're working on. By bullying we work because this is an article that is. That's why we have our own subordination, which is that of internal affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u57	Samofalov, Party of the Regions, Deputies of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Mikhail Vasiljevic, you have reported in detail on the results of the work and on the measures taken and on the measures taken for the personnel first. But that's, like, post-factum. Any investigation has its reasons. Given that you have analysed the reasons, is there any plan in the Ministry of the Interior today to prevent such events in other situations, has the question of what conclusions, in principle, have been drawn in the Ministry of the Interior itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u58	Thank you. With regard to our actions that we carried out according to our competence, that is, first of all, protecting public order and ensuring proper public security. We do this according to the right plans. With regard to the torturer in particular, there was a service investigation, as I have already reported. And after what was appropriate, individuals were drawn to disciplinary responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u59	Please, Nosenko. Prepare Drachewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u60	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u61	Orzhachowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u62	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear reporter, I understand that Ukraine has heard quite a lot about the problem of the Martyr: statements, investigations, and so on. Mikola Vasilovich, I wanted to ask you this: did your ministry consider the problem, the state of what happened, and accordingly did it evaluate the actions of Ministry officials directly at a higher level? The other one. You're the last time, answering my question, "Why didn't you take action to remove everything on the video camera? “ - they said that the cameras were taken. So I have a question like this:
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u63	As far as the cameras are concerned, they're not back yet. There are, of course, those who took the cameras, they are, they are known. As for the consideration of these questions, I have already answered the previous question that this situation is being considered, a service investigation is being conducted, and the relevant conclusions are being drawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u64	Please, Drachewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u65	Victor Drachewski, "Trude Ukraine." Dear Mikola Vasilovich, I have two questions for you. First, whether internal affairs were involved in the investigation of crimes committed at polling stations or other law enforcement agencies. If so, how? And the second question. Do you think that they will be condemned to the actual deprivation of the will of a person exposed to the crime?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u66	Thank you. We were certainly interacting with him. In carrying out public security measures, they interacted with the Ukrainian Security Service and other law enforcement agencies, as provided for by the relevant laws and our landmark orders. As far as the court is concerned, it is certainly the jurisdiction of the court and it is the only body that will determine the extent to which those persons are responsible for the crimes committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u67	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Igor Vasilovich Drizcany, deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u68	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! During the past few weeks, the Ukrainian Security Service has been working in three main ways to find out what was happening during the elections of the Mukatov City Head. First of all, the Ukrainian Security Investigation Service is involved in the prosecution of a criminal case that is being instituted by the Attorney General's Office. Secondly, operational and investigation measures have been taken to establish all persons involved in offences with the aim of ensuring that the judicial investigation authority is able to conduct full, comprehensive and objective investigations. And thirdly, we're checking out statements and reports of actions that have signs of crime and response to these statements and reports. I'll start with the Security Service's involvement in the criminal investigation. As reported at the May 12th plenary meeting, five investigators were included in the Henprocuratorium investigation team immediately after a criminal case was committed. Seven additional investigators are added to the group’s membership. Thus, 12 of our employees are now involved in the investigation. And it should be noted that in the large amount of follow-up that the information from the Attorney General's Office is a significant part of the work of the investigators of the BSI. There was no reference to the quality of their work on the side of the Henprosecutor's Office. Operational search activities. The measures taken by the Ukrainian Security Service were primarily aimed at assisting the authorities of the pretrial investigation by carrying out the commission of investigators of the Attorney General’s Office to establish individuals and to determine the circumstances of the commission of the commission. The data we received is transmitted to the Attorney General's Office for investigation. In addition, the ongoing interaction between operational investigators has been established, allowing individuals involved in the commission of offences, eyewitnesses, participants, and witnesses to be identified. For example, according to a report by the U.S. Security Service of the Zakartat district of the polling station number 13 by Mukachevo on May 10, this year, a criminal case was committed for a serious violation of public order involving opposition to the authorities and bodily harm of the Banic police. That is, by the signs of crime, bullying. Today, more than 200 members of the so - called support groups of the two main candidates have been established as operational agents of the Security Service. Since these people were participants or witnesses to events during the elections, the materials were sent to the Attorney General’s Office. It is appropriate to note that the materials we received from the national deputies, including video materials, have provided substantive assistance in operational work. We have already installed part of the active events on the floats. The Public Prosecutor's Office has been informed of this. Video processing is continuing. In fact, it should be noted that the people depicted in the videos are usually not local residents. Finally, regarding the consideration of applications, appeals, and reports that have come to the People’s Deputies’ Security Service. We have previously informed the Supreme Council of the consequences of their consideration. Today, I can say that we have received 21 oral and written statements, petitions, messages from national deputies. Of these, 20 are already under consideration, one is in the test stage. It is the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy Pavelek to a criminal case involving assault on the life of a public official and the commission of official crimes by members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zakartat region. This address came to us on May 25th, and his test is ongoing. As a result, decisions will be made, in order and in due time, provided for by the law in force. Of the 20 claims under consideration, 7 included criminal cases involving crimes committed by the Security Service. It is about actions aimed at the violent change or overthrow of the constitutional system, the capture of state authority, the attack on the life of a public official, the creation of a criminal organization, and so forth. In the course of the tests, more than 250 eyewitnesses were examined by investigators, 70 reports were received from authorities of other institutions, and 9 events were reviewed. In view of the fact that the materials received did not give any basis for the finding of crimes against the basis of Ukraine’s national security or other illegal actions that were referred to the Security Service’s jurisdiction, criminal offences were refused, with appropriate material being sent to the prosecutor’s office for use in criminal investigations that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u69	Yes, please finish. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u70	One report, referring to a telegram dated May 1st from Ukraine’s national deputy Baloga, was sent without a check to the Attorney General’s Office because it referred to the commission of crimes involving the prosecution. In eight cases, we were contacted by MPs with reports of violations of public order, threats to their safety, and security requests. Each of these calls was followed by a response. People’s deputies were given appropriate written answers. In four cases, the Oral Security Service, including telephone calls for deputies to respond promptly to certain events. In each case, operational groups were informed of the contents of the appeal. Fortunately, the attacks on the lives of national deputies and members of their families were not confirmed. At present, officials are continuing to carry out operational follow-up tasks in criminal matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u71	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Let me explain. Katchure, follow him, the Droguntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u73	Please, the cook is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u74	Dear reporter, as is known from the law of intelligence is being done to establish a possible pattern of crime. Rather, it is generally known that election documents were stolen from the territorial commission itself. That is to say, it is under 357 articles of the Criminal Code, where it is about stealing such a type of documentation. So a specific question to you is, do you have a mandate from the Attorney General's Office to conduct a pretrial investigation into this apparent pattern of crime? This time. And secondly, we have information that you have a statement from one of those people who were involved in the kidnapping of this documentation and that the other person is already dead. Can you confirm this information?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u75	Well, first of all, the downside of the search is the failure to establish the composition of the crime, and the establishment of persons involved in the wrongdoing or the circumstances of the crime. With regard to the qualifications of certain actions, it is a matter of investigation, not of operational units. By the way, the prosecution filed a case based on the marks of the article you mentioned, part 2 of article 357, on the fact that the particularly important documents were stolen from Mukatsevsky’s apartment in Mesquikonkam. Do we have the commission to investigate these matters? No, it's not. Because that's the case with the prosecutor's office. But we've had a few errands to take operational measures to facilitate the investigation of this case. We have carried out these tasks in part and continue to carry out, informing the prosecution. As for your second question, I can tell you that there are no statements in the Ukrainian Security Service that have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u76	It's a dragoon. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u77	Dear reporter, you said that you were set up by persons who were involved in fighting in Mukachevo and who were not local residents but came from other regions. Is it established by you, which political forces represented these "travel gastrolers"? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u78	Thank you. But I didn't use the term "fight." I said that the operational path we set up is over 200, and I can say exactly 205 people who were in support of the two main candidates. We have established places of residence for these people, established where they came from, including established and, as it were, political forces. But I would like to point out that the task of the search is to establish their involvement or involvement in the commission of illegal actions, not in the political forces. In this case, each individual’s involvement in one or more activities is determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u79	Please, Shurma. Get ready fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u80	The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear reporter, would you please tell us who is involved in the murder of the family after the elections in Mukachev? We know that this man and his family were shot. That's the first question. I think the subject continues in connection with Nuser’s claim to be in charge. Do we know who calls and terrorizes the family and the loved ones of Nuser? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u81	I'm not ready to answer questions about the murder. I don't have any information on that. With regard to the statement made by former Mayor Mukatev Nusser, he did report calls to him with threats in his conversation with a security officer in Ukraine. Rather, it is not a threat to his life or the life of his family. It is about such psychological pressure or psychological influence. We are now working with internal affairs officials on the operational work of this application.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u82	Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u83	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter, please tell me you immediately said that you have established the political forces of the 205 who have come and participated in the events that took place in Mukacheva. Can you describe the political forces? That's the first one. And the second. Please tell me what happened today in Mukachev, do you think, as a professional, is that a threat to the security of the state? If these actions are threatened by the security of the State, and you are here in the rostrum to answer these questions, what exactly can you find out with these threats to the state, to the sovereignty of the state? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u84	I've already said that any criminal activity, it poses a threat to the security of the state. It's simply that law enforcement agencies that are designed to fight crime have their own competence. The Security Service is competent to detect and investigate certain categories of crimes. When it comes to hooligan acts, crimes against individuals, they are dealt with by internal affairs agencies, and the Ukrainian Security Service is not involved. As for the membership of support groups, I have answered this question, too, and they belong to different political forces, and in this case it is important whether these people committed illegal acts, not to what political power they belonged to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u85	Yes, have a seat, Igor Vasilovich. Nina Ivanovna Karpachova, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, has the floor. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u86	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honourable Head, are present! In Ukraine’s recent history, there may have been no case of local elections being the object of such careful attention and opposition to the political powers of all Ukraine as the election of the city’s head, Mukachevo. This city has been a symbol not only of the unprecedented violation of human constitutional rights but also of the struggle for their observance. Today I want to draw attention to one of those law enforcement officers who defended such rights and who witnessed these events directly in the House of the Martyr City Council on the night of April 19th to 20th. He is trying to tell the truth about these events. This is 24th Djumela Mikhail Ivanovich, Sergeant of the Mukachev Police Department of Internal Affairs, who has asked this question to a human rights officer who is present in this room today. He's standing on the balcony right now, and at his request, I'd like to read his address to you, distinguished nationals, because he can't do that from the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] "I, Djumela Mikhailo Ivanovich, Sergeant of the Mukatov Police Department of Internal Affairs, was born into a multi-child poor Zacarpathian family. I've been serving in the police patrol company for two years. What I want to tell the national MPs today is the truth. Hence, he is willing to worship the Bible as we are brought up in the mountains. On the night of April 19 - 20 of this year, when the election ballots were stolen, I personally traded in the city council room at the front gate. On that day, the investigation committee of the Supreme Council, headed by Alexander Xinchenk, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, worked in this room. About half past twelve o’clock, Alexander Zinchenko, with him the head of the Zacarpathian District Council and several Ukrainian national deputies, left the city council. A minute later, Lieutenant Colonel Vasil Schvenda, a deputy head of the police department, entered the premises 20 minutes later. [[Attention!]] They were also with him: the counselor of the then performing duty of the city’s head. Alexander, Andrew Lagoyda, and I don't know a man of low height, rustic, 30 years old. Lagoyda took the keys to the main and rear gates. This was surprising because Lagoyda had never done this before. Then all three of them went upstairs to the room. There was already an elder next to the militia captain, Vasil Kotubei. Captain Kotubei came down to us with a guard and ordered me to carry the service near the secret room number 52, where the ballot papers were located. I climbed to the second floor and protected the room. It was sealed and probably under the alarm because a red light was on fire. A minute after I started my rotation, the deputy chief of the Swend district approached me and told me to leave this place and return to the front gate. I went down where there was another fellow officer of our company, Sergeant John Pinzenik and the guard. Three other militiamen served at the back gate. At that time, two deputy heads of the City Department, Lieutenants Swenda and Korneyev, came down to the first floor. Lieutenant Colonel Schwenda ordered three militiamen who were serving at the back gate to leave them and go patrol the city. Thus, the gate was left unguarded, which is usually there. He also gave the order to leave the premises of Sergeant Penznick. After that, the deputies themselves left the premises of the district chief Schweind and Korneyev. At about two o'clock in the night, the guards returned the keys to the main and rear doors as counsellor of the then performing duty of the city's head with Logojda, who then, along with the unknown man with the furry hair, also left the premises of the landlady. So the keys were in them for almost two hours. At 2:15, we heard long calls coming from the rear gate and the three of us -- I, the guard, Captain Kutebay, ran there. Guards at the car park, near the gate of the landowners, informed us that there were several strangers at the back gate, but they were no longer there. When we returned, we saw light on the second floor, which was not meant to be there. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u87	Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u88	Thank you, national deputies. The guards and Captain Kutebay immediately rose upstairs. A few minutes later, the guard who was in shock returned and said that the secret room where the ballots were kept had been broken and that the second reception room had been beaten. Captain Kutebay immediately called a task force on the phone, and he remained on his own to protect the scene. However, the first 10 to 15 minutes later, Colonel Valerius Derniv and his deputies, Schvenda and Korneyev, arrived at the scene. And only five or seven minutes later, the task force arrived. At 8 a.m., I finished my shift, and this group was still working. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very excited by the events of this night, so when the first Deputy Attorney General of Kudriavts arrived at Mukachevi, I took my own initiative and gave an explanation, but a specific reaction from the prosecutor's office to the challenge of me and the eye rates so far, and it didn't seem as if my information had turned out to be useless to anyone. I hope that this information announced in the Supreme Council of Ukraine will help to establish the truth about the events that took place in my hometown of Mukacheva." I address you, Your Honor, Michael Ivanovich Dzmel. Do you support your statement in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u89	Nina Ivanovna! It's not like there's any follow-up going on here. Dear colleagues! I'm gonna say it again. The Supreme Council is not a room for investigation. There is an official declaration, an official statement is an official statement, and it will go to the appropriate authorities. Three minutes to ask. Please sign in. Please explain. Dear colleagues! I'm gonna say it again. Her statement was announced, and she did everything. Please, Tuck. After him, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u90	Roman Tkac, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. First of all, dear Nina Ivanovno, I thank you for such a fine performance, but I would still like you to continue and please take my time and continue what you have to say. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u91	I asked Michael Ivanovich Dzmel if he would confirm what I said, and he immediately said from the balcony, "I confirm." Am I right? And then he said, "I serve the people of Ukraine." I want every lawman in our country to be like Michael Jumel.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u92	Please, Samuel. For her, Svatkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u93	Step away, please, I want to ask you a question. Nina Ivanovna, really, the statement that you're making, I really do understand that today this young man has made a feat. It really is. Not everyone can take on such a difficult time, simply express honestly what he saw and what he thought. But I do know that unfortunately, we're going to get to the truth, and to you, including the prosecution, and to the police, it's very, very difficult. I want to explain to myself how this young man was able to reach out to you in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u94	Can I answer that? It's working. I thank you for that question. First of all, I want to say that the Human Rights Commissioner is open to all the honest people of our nation. So there was no obstacle to this person’s giving a witness during my stay directly in Mukachev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u95	Please, Svatkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u96	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u97	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Nina Ivanovna, please give me an answer to this question. How do you support, and how does this person who has addressed you support the Jewish youth organization in Mukachevo, which is in black jackets and shaved? Who were they? What kind of organization is this? What organization was this, and how did it work there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. I'll answer it properly. Today giving me the floor, the chairman put to the vote the Commissioner's right to speak in this room at any time. And you know that the Authorized has these words by law. I respect your vote on my speech at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And what I'm saying is that I can't replace, as the law admits, all the following bodies of our state, so it's better to address your question to the law enforcement officers who were these young men who fought and fought in the polls, beat up the members of the district commissions and also beat the Ukrainian national deputies who watched the election races in Mukachevo. I hope that, together with the National Deputies, thanks to a special commission of investigators who is working on your mission to the constituency, Ukraine will eventually learn the whole truth about the Mukachevo election race. Because it's not Mukachevo's problem, it's the problem of our entire state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u100	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. The word has been given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, this was your commission, the commission of the session to organize a working group and report to the session. So I ask you to give me a ten - minute rule or combine my statement with an answer to a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u102	Let us join together in answers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u103	Dear national deputies, invited, guests. The desire to hear the truth about the tormenting events themselves, about their causes, about the organizers of the political Middle Ages in the 20th century is a desire not for the political sphere, it's a question of conscience. Shocking at their unconcealed cynicism, events cannot help but be indignant. But is Mukachevo the first in the list of abuses and pressures of democracy of the letter and spirit of the law? Not at all. Torture is a test the day before, a test on our roads to the future. If we eat, we endure, then there is nothing to complain about that we have a yoke that hurts our necks. If we don't stop lawlessness, if we postpone it again, by the time we get to the best of times, it's only going to get worse. We have little time left. But there's still a chance. The chance to avoid conspiring with one’s own conscience, the chance to call black black, not gray, or even white. The findings of the working group of the Supreme Council are the result of careful analysis of events, actions by authorities, and the course of official investigation. I'm going to point out the Parliament's reaction to the events of the Martyr and the timely and necessary. Scenarios and organizers did not expect it, so they were forced literally to change their previous plans. But the ends in the water failed to hide. The Supreme Council took into account the previous findings of our commission and gave a political assessment of these events. Now we can say for sure, our previous findings remain valid, and we find new confirmations. The situation in Mukachev was a sign of severe and dangerous systemic disease of all Ukrainian authorities. The merger of power interests, lax, greedy government, power structures and criminality has led to cynical and systematic disregard for the rights of citizens, to a real threat to the fundamental constitutional principle, to the destruction of most citizens in the democratic principles of the development of their country. It's not just words, it's reality confirmed and proved by facts. Our group did not intervene in any way in the investigation. We acted only on the basis of the requirements of the Constitution and the law equal to all. However, we analyzed compliance with the requirements of the investigation procedure, collected and provided evidence and evidence, and assessed how they were handled by the investigating authorities. Clearly, it takes time to form a complete picture of events. But there are things that are completely understandable that do not require complex research. These things would have been carried out immediately, within a few days on the basis and the ruling of the Supreme Council, and the commission of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, we are in the right to ask the investigating authorities to answer specific questions about the reported violations of legislation. First. Confirmed by official evidence of political persecution, both before and after the elections. Indeed, these cases are a matter of research that is exclusively authorized by human rights. Where are the Henprocurators and the other organs? The destruction of three constituencies, bodily harm to Ukrainian national deputies and other citizens in the evening and night after the election, violations of the procedure for the work of the district committees and the territorial election commission. If there's any doubt about the results of the 12 polls, there's a question. Can an investigation prove a forgery or absence in at least one or more areas? If the copies of the protocol are supported by video recording, the fourth section, where there is a difference of votes in the TVC and the observers in almost three thousand votes, the video of its announcement by the head of the divisional commission, is not enough to even compare and explore TVC protocols. Next. The illegal summoning and holding of a session of the land that took the oath of nominee Nuser, in fact, the insubordination of Edward Nuser's long-term authority of the city's head. Next. The robbery of the area, the beating of security guard Stephen Levandowski, the collapse of the first part and the disappearance of parts of the ballot papers and the original records of the district commission, you've already seen. Which of the leaders of the local police, who had been warned of the possibility of forceful action on electoral documentation, withdrew protection we have heard today and what motivation there was. In any of these facts, the investigation did not give concrete conclusions and answers. Is that what you would call an investigation? Is more than 40 days not enough to talk, not about intentions, but about conclusions? We do not require that the final results of the investigation be placed on the table, but there are no intermediates, since in 40 days it would not be possible to even qualify events by episode by defining the relevant articles of criminal and other codes? Of course you can, you can and you have to. But what did we hear with you today? The hooliganism, which has been established, is ongoing. Isn't that a cover-up scenario? There is no real conclusion, as there is no inquiry into the answers to other key questions of torture. It is those who have the responsibility, what has taken place, and how to ensure a legal solution to the conflict. And above all, there is no political will in the central, yes, it is in the central government that there is no political will to respond adequately to the threat and at least repeat what was done in the Crimea in the mid-1990s, when this autonomy faced the danger of turning into a criminal reserve. The process, unfortunately, went completely predictable, in anticipation of what would happen as usual. We're sure it won't, there'll be no inertia in long-term patience. [[Applause]] Parliament has already demonstrated its political will by approving the appropriate decision, and it is our privilege to demand that the investigation be completed, that the mutations of martyrdom events be avoided, even that possibility. At the same time, I would like to stress that the objective assessment of torture events cannot be politically uniform. The conflict began, not in April 2004, but much earlier, during a series of previous elections of the martyr’s head and the struggle for economically attractive regional favors. Violations during those elections also require investigation and reaction. Impunity and legal nihilism have the ability to reproduce and to reproduce in geometric progress. Yes, there have been political errors on the part of the various contestants, including our Ukraine, and there have been cases far from Angolan behavior. There's an object here. to political intransigence, but there are no charges. On the other hand, the desire to conduct the necessary candidate has been strengthened both administratively and legally, and judicially. Because basically, the whole set of government structures at Zakarpatta is completely controlled by the representatives of the SDPU(o), and all of these structures were actively involved in organizing and implementing the martyrdom issue. How? Police operations are just outside of any comment. The destruction of three constituencies, the attack on the premises of the land and the theft of district records could have been done either because of the total inaction of the law enforcement officers or because of their direct patronage, otherwise these events would have been physically impossible. In this connection, the names of local heads in positions that took place almost immediately after the election seem particularly cynical. Is it admitting a job or "adequate" response to Parliament's decision to use personnel change? [[in quotes]] The government of the court. It was to become an obstacle to lawlessness, to become but not to be. Yes, the next day after the elections, the Mukatov Interregional Court confirmed that the results of the elections were correct. I'm not going to comment on the court's decision, because the independence of the courts is the cornerstone of democracy. But I suggest you think about how it was approved. There was no TVC decision in court, no other documents - and the court ruled on the basis of a single document - a complaint, i.e. a documentary confirmation of the voter's will turned out to be unnecessary. Even more surprising is the behavior of the Uzhgorod City Court, which, after receiving a complaint from one of the TVC’s candidates after the end of the day, decided at 21 hours to refuse the complaint. Can you imagine an independent, impartial court making such decisions without evidence? This is not even possible from the point of view of common sense. The explanation here is only one thing: The local judiciary has been transformed into an obedient legal mechanism to cover up electoral abuses. With regard to the actions of the Attorney General and the Attorney General’s Office, you will need to consult the material provided by the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Finally, the principal vertical of power is the executive. Everything that happened in Mukachev could not but be controlled by the government. That's where the coordination took place. But without proper impulses from the center, the organization and implementation of the torture scenario would be impossible. Strategic, decisive decisions were approved, not in Zakarpat, but in Kiev. This is where the center of anti-crisis management was located, which, in order to achieve its own political and economic interests, is ready to make the whole state a field for its experiments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u105	It is a coincidence that immediately after the adoption of the Order of the Supreme Council in the case of the Mukachev Deputy of the Presidential Administration, the conclusions on the unconstitutionality of Parliament's conclusions were reached. From now on, any officer of the President's Administration is incarcerated by the Constitutional Court. The martyrdom election has been shown both in terms of specific counterfeiting mechanisms and in terms of the overall approach to modeling the entire electoral process. Tortured know-how forging technology is a denial of counterfeiting intermediate results. The need for a final result is declared independently of them, and the cloaking system is starting to work. Torture - related events have revealed a similar pattern that can work, but only under mandatory conditions: the total control of the media and the tight information processing of the population, the instigation in society of a sense of fear and hopelessness, the social and political passivity of a large part of the population. We must go back to this consideration and exert maximum political pressure on responsible individuals and structures. To do that, first of all, we need to reach human resources conclusions, so that the officials who allowed the appropriate administrative measures can be applied, and once again I will say "as long as" administrative sanctions. [[So far, I'm saying it's "allowed," not organized by this disgraceful act.]] The decree clearly defines these officers. Parliament must insist on the implementation of its decision. Humans ’ conclusions, on the contrary. A promotion in rank and office is just a spit to the side of Parliament. Secondly, closely within the framework of legislation, control the investigation process. We should not interfere with the investigation. We must demand its results. In the event of a delay in a breach of procedure, a lack of objectivity, a request for sanctions to be made by specific officials. Finally. Terminally eliminate holes in electoral legislation, maximize the possibility of abuse. Consider the establishment of a system of parliamentary monitoring and parliamentary control of the electoral process. Together, we must restore society, the public, the common people's faith and the ability to influence power effectively, to form power and to demand responsibility for our actions. It's everyone's right to try to have what you have to pray for, what you have to look into your children's eyes and your grandchildren for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the information you and I have made has been heard. Question completed. Questions. We used the time to ask questions. Have a seat, please. Alexander Alexiyovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues! We are acting in accordance with the rules we have set with you. I didn't do anything wrong, but I broke what I gave three minutes to spare. One more thing, dear fellows. Since the regulations laid down by the Laws have not been reached by the Rules, there is a draft regulation that needs to be first to answer the question that we are considering. It's different. I would like to ask the committee of profile to which I directed this decision to consider. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to sit down. Don't scream, please. We've already settled the questions. What question? I'm gonna say it again. The decree does not yet have a bearing on the matter that we are listening to. That's the first one. The other one. The issue of a solution to a mistrust of the Attorney General is dealt with by the Rules and by law on a completely different matter. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u107	Yes, dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our sessions. Once again, dear colleagues, please pay attention to the decree given to you today. Registration number 5575. The ruling is called "About information from the Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev on the outcome of the investigation of the situation that took place during the election of the city head of Mukachevo Zakarpatsk district." We did not listen to such a question, and Vasilyev did not report it to us today. The other one. There is in this Order: "Trust the Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev." There is a law on the Public Prosecutor's Office that states that the prosecutor must provide information on the legality of Ukraine. As a result of this information, the Supreme Council can determine. That's one thing. The other one. The second is the most important. Honorary colleagues are 89 articles of the Constitution. This decree, in my view, does not have the right to life, because it is not written properly. Thus, according to article 89 of the Constitution, it is sent to the committees of profile. They'll give the profile committees an answer, and then we, your honors, will consider it. That's the question today. Even today. Hall takes decisions, I make decisions in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution. They're going to make decisions, we're going to vote. Dear colleagues, please sit down again. There is article 89. The committee will meet, gather now, make a decision. We'll be right there. I promise you. It doesn't matter. There is article 89. You have very well - known experts in the Rules. Roman Mikhailovich Koval on the Standing Committee, and others may say I can't break it. No, I can't break it. Please Deputy Attorney General, help. Please. Please, we'll listen to you now. The Attorney General in charge of the militia. Please approach the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u108	We put it on the committee. The committee will answer. There is no discussion. Yeah? And the 89th article of the Constitution. I have a right, I have to abide by the Constitution and the Rules. And the name of the regulation and the name of the question is different. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the Deputy Attorney General for a minute. Please sit down, then sign in with the procedure. I repeat, please just give the Deputy Attorney General a minute. After that, I'll give you five minutes for different things, and we'll figure it out. Sit down, please. You're letting him represent the Attorney General? You don't. Then sit down and log in on the matter. Write it down. Yes, please, five minutes Skomarowski, followed by Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u110	Please, cook. Please proceed with the procedure. From the rostrum, from the rostrum a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! An argument by the chairman at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the issue that we have considered requires a preliminary review of the committee does not stand up to any criticism. Article 122 of the Constitution sets out very clearly the right, the undeniable right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide whether to trust or not the Attorney General of Ukraine. There is no indication that this question requires prior consideration by the committee. We have heard information that the deputy corps can itself make a decision: is this Attorney General who has practically committed a crime without leading to a logical conclusion that sabotages the conduct of a criminal investigation into the obvious facts, the obvious facts that cause no objection to anyone, or can he remain in the office of Attorney General? The faction of "Our Ukraine" still requires that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u112	Please, Solomon. After him, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u113	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Nina Karpach’s statement of human rights deserves attention, as do others who were announced during this meeting. It is therefore necessary to give the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine the opportunity to check them for a period of one or two weeks and to report them properly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter. In addition, draft regulations on this subject are to be processed on the committees of the profile. So let's not break through our knees today, because it's broken enough, including in and after Mukachev, and we'll go along with the procedure properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u114	Please, Rudzkowski. Follow him, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u115	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Barani. Adam Ivanovich, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u116	Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u117	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Adam Ivanovich, in Mukachevo, there's a "straight" there, and now we have something going on in the Supreme Council. From what time did we start making decisions that were made, and we must send them to the committees of profile? How many of them have we received recently, literally from the wheels, as they say, when we passed and looked at them, and let the hall be determined. So I'd like you to make the right decision for the vote, and let the room be defined. And the second. Today, the Socialists offered to consider the issue of "Criminals". There's a crime going on there, too. If this giant is privatized, there will be a situation tomorrow with methane in Ukraine like it was with grain and today with gasoline. So we demand that we consider this question, and any decision taken by the Supreme Council, it will take it, and let's look at the question of "Crowristals," let's stop the crime that's being programmed there today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u118	Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u119	Then please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u120	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it's obvious that in the state today, criminality is the result of this policy that is being pursued in the state. And it is clear to me and my faction buddies that today we need to take radical measures to put order in place. And the point is that today we need to keep these specific events under control, and I think that the facts that were mentioned, that our comrade in the Solomonine faction spoke about, should be checked and brought to a logical conclusion, as well as many other loud things that today do not allow society to be convinced that there is order, rule of law, and that power is honest with its people. So we, the faction of Communists, and we insist, today have to solve the issue of changing the system of power, then replacing the law enforcement system, and making the right order in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u121	Please, Cornienne, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u122	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to prove to you that the crime that was committed, the kidnapping of ballot papers, has been solved. The person who took part in the commission of this crime is detained. Now he's showing off, and he's doing other follow-up. As for Sergeant Jemela's statement, it's not a sensation, he gave an explanation, he was questioned by the prosecutor's office. And all that was highlighted here from the rostrum, it's known, and it's being tested on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! You and I had an exchange of thoughts. I'm gonna say it again. The draft ruling does not answer the question that we have heard with you. The other one. We've sent him to the appropriate profiling committees. I'm going to the profile committees that have to come to a conclusion in accordance with article 89. After we have reached that conclusion, we will return to that decision. But I would ask both the committee and the authors of the legislative initiative, who have the right to replace the above, to call this decision the way it listened to the question. The draft regulation, the name doesn't answer the question we've been listening to. So, dear colleagues, we have many more questions that you need to consider, including: Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised that there are 100 national deputies of the factions of "Our Ukraine," where there are really many lawyers and people with great experience of MPs, there is no one who would have pointed out how to write the title of the decree. Once again, the truth is the committee. There'll be a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, it's clear that we don't go to the Constitution very often, so I'll allow myself to read it. Article 89. The Supreme Council may determine, but the Supreme Council of the Constitution cannot cancel so quickly. "The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are carrying out legislative work, preparing and reviewing issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm gonna say it again. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine carry out legislative work, prepare and advance their consideration of issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the committees. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, from Matthew's procedure for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u125	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you as chairman of all Ukraine not to give false information or to establish the Supreme Council in its authority. I would like to draw your attention to what today is called the agenda issue of the General Prosecutor's Office's Information, and there are still other force structures for investigating the circumstances that took place during the elections of the city's Mukachev. I would like to draw your attention to the name of the draft decision that I have made. In line with the information that was going on today, I have a claim to the Attorney General's Office that stands in order of the day and on the very question that was being considered that there was little room in the election. So to say that this question doesn't answer the question of order of the day, at least it's not correct. On the second question, if today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u126	Dear colleagues and radio listeners, I remind you again, on May 12th, in this session hall, you and I adopted a decision of the Supreme Council, which stated in paragraph 7, "To hear the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the outcome of the investigation of the situation that took place during the election of the city chief of Mukachevo, Zakarpatski district," as well as "Information by the Head of the Working Group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Zinchenka on the results of its work." The draft regulation is called: "The information of the Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev "On the results of the investigation of the circumstances that took place during the election of the city head of Mukachevo, Zakarpatsk district." It is clear to everyone that these are different questions. And I'm stressing once again the 89th article of the Constitution. Article 89 of the Constitution tells us what a committee should do. After the committee's decision, the Supreme Council will be considered. Therefore, the Iraqi Committee considered all the decisions previously taken by the Personal Committee. All without exception. Who doesn't believe, check it out. I don't decide, I decide 89 articles of the Constitution. What should be put to the vote? Klukkowski proposes to put to the vote whether we can break 89 articles of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Leaders of the MP factions and groups, please rise on the third floor. Break until 1:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m0.u128	Let me inform you about the meetings of the Conciliation Board. You can talk for as long as we've sat down, because there were many, sometimes mutually exclusives, you can say, shorter, lead to the essence of these proposals. The main proposals came to this and I am pleased that most of the members of the Conciliation Board are interested in continuing the session, realizing that we have a great debt under various bills, that we should move on. At the same time, we agreed that we would follow the clear procedures that the Constitution provides for, first of all, a protocol commission to the Mosaic Committee of Profiles to hold a committee meeting before 16 hours and to consider draft regulations or draft regulations, because there might be other draft regulations. Once the profile committee is ready to report to us, we will make the appropriate decision on a particular decision as determined by the session room. Once again, I emphasize what we know in principle, but simply for information. The decision of the profile committee won't matter to us. Whether it is positive or negative, according to the Rules, it should happen. Whatever. And on the basis of what happened, the sessional board will make the right decision. She can support the committee, maybe not support the committee. Hall, yes, hall. The Supreme Council, the deputies will take it. Decisions in accordance with the procedures envisaged. So, dear colleagues, I invite you to adjust to a constructive job. I ask the members of the committee of profile to hear what I have said is that there is a commission of the Conciliation Board, so that you will be able to consider the matter by 16 hours, and at 16 hours we will put it to a vote if there is a committee decision, and we will go over a whole series of bills that we have accumulated in almost the last month. Thank you, it's a 16-hour break.
