ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:34]] 402 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We're continuing our work. A draft Mines Act is being introduced into the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, three draft laws. [[Registration numbers 5161, 5349, 5727]] Reporters: Deputy Finance Minister Chali Vladimir Dmitrovitch and Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy Melnik Yuri Fedorovich. Budzigan Philip Philipovich will be speaking from the committee. Please, Vladimir Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. The aim of the project is to clarify the list of commercial activities that are subject to licensing, namely, the specification of the field of trade in precious metals and precious stones in the jewelry and household products of precious metals and precious stones that have become unfit or lost their operational value. Today, not only do collectors and pawnshops accept from the population the complete jewelry and household products made of precious metals and precious stones, but they are mostly used, incomplete, damaged. Significant products have not changed their chemical composition and have evidence of a manufacturing test, a responsible test, and should be used for further processing and affination. The production of new jewelry will fill the State Fund for precious metals and precious stones and the country’s gold reserves. Along with article 9, paragraph 8, of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of farming, it is established that licensing is subject to trade in precious metals and precious stones. Thus, the right of collectors and pawnbrokers to purchase and deposit in the population and to realize the corresponding jewelry and household products of precious metals and precious stones does not extend to incomplete products or to those that have lost operational value. In turn, this limits the right of citizens to sell or confiscate their jewelry or household products of precious metals and precious stones that have become unfit or lost their operational value. In this regard, it is proposed that the relevant changes be made to article 9, paragraph 8, of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. It should be noted that it is not meant to expand the total number of commercial activities that are subject to licensing, but merely to specify one type of farming activity, trade in precious metals, and precious stones. The adoption of the project will help to regulate the activities of the pawnshops in the field of jewelry, jewelry, and household products made of precious metals and precious stones, and will strengthen government control and circulation of precious metals, precious stones. This is why it is proposed to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of commercial activities in the jewelry and household products of precious metals and precious stones that have become unfit and have lost operational value. Please support changes to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite you to the presentation, to the report of Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Melnik Yuri Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities. The need to develop this project was due to the fact that the law currently in force provides for licensing only for fishing in industrial fish farms, or exclusive waters under Ukraine’s jurisdiction. At the same time, the vast majority of the raw materials are extracted by Ukrainian and fishing fleets in waters outside Ukraine’s jurisdiction in the open ocean and exclusive economic zones of foreign nations. In doing so, stockpiles of the vast majority of the world’s living water resources are still being used at the highest possible level. While virtually all coastal states have introduced national schemes for regulating fishing activities in waters under their jurisdiction, the further uncontrolled work of industrial vessels on the high seas threatens the destruction of fish stocks of these waters. The warning of such consequences is seen by the world community in adopting all the nations that send ships under their flag to the open sea industry, their obligations, their respective controls, and their cooperation in this area within international regional fisheries organizations. Ukraine is known to be a member of several of them, as well as a party to the treaty in the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea concerning the Conservation of Transboundary Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. Article 18 of this covenant directly requires the flag State to control such vessels on the high seas by means of fishing licences, permits or permits. Licensing practices are implemented by most ocean fishing countries, including Australia, New Zealand, the Russian Federation, and the United States. Thus, the introduction of compulsory licensing of fishing vessels under the flag of Ukraine, operating in waters outside Ukraine’s jurisdiction, along with the already licensed activities in domestic waters, the territorial sea and the exclusive economic territory of Ukraine, will enable government authorities to ensure proper control of the activities of vessels under the flag of the State and to prevent unauthorized fishing and to monitor, control and control such vessels, their industrial operations, providing certain conditions for such control under licensing conditions. The bill concluded by the Ministry of Justice is in line with European Union legislation. The bill has been reviewed and supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment, and the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u6	Honorable National MPs. For your consideration, there are three bills amending and complementing various problems with one Ukrainian Act on licensing certain types of economic activity, in particular Article 9. All three bills are introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment at its meetings of 14 April of this year and 15 September of this year reviewed the bills and invited the Supreme Council to adopt them as a basis, that is, in its first reading. According to the schedule of the day’s session, he explained to you why the committee had made such a decision. Bill No. 5161 clarifies article 9, paragraph 8, to determine more specifically the relationship between collectors and pawnshops and other participants in the rental of precious metals and precious stones, which are in jewelry and household products and in the course of trade of the same products that have become unfit or lost their operational value. Bill 5727, paragraph 17 of article 9 of the Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, proposes to add to the old edition the words "and also protected paper with watermarks and paints and protective properties used to do so." This is due to (a) stop counterfeiting securities, excise stamps, reduce the threat to the economic security of the State, strengthen state control over this activity, which will in no way affect the honest and conscientious manufacturer who receives the relevant licence. Bill No. 5349 proposes article 60 of the Ninth Licensing Act to clarify and extend somewhat, and to present in an editorial that will allow for the continuation of mandatory licensing of activities relating to fishing in inland waters, the territorial sea and the exclusive maritime economic zone, as well as in waters under the national jurisdiction of other states and in the open sea, that is, outside the jurisdiction of Ukraine. Complementary data are due to the need for Ukraine to fulfil its international obligations, such as the relevant United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. A general summary of three bills. The first, the scientific and expert office on these bills proposes to accept them as a basis, has made proposals that will have to be taken into account when preparing them for the second reading. The adoption of these bills, secondly, does not require additional financial costs from the State Budget, but will allow it to be completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u7	Yes, thank you, Philip Philipovich. Dear colleagues, there's still Project 5727. I will also ask Chalo Vladimir Dmitrovitch to express the government's position on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities. Implementation of the first plan of action to prevent the manufacture and circulation of counterfeit alcoholic beverages and excise stamps approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 4 February 2004, number 58. This draft of the Ukrainian Law details the type of economic activity that is subject to licensing for the production of securities and documents of strict reporting. The main task of the draft law is to establish state control not only for the economic activity involved in the direct production of the marked forms, but also for the production of protected materials, are the special paints of watermark paper used in the production of securities forms, strict reporting documents, and the production of semi-producers of the marked forms. The proposed expanded edition of the production of forms of securities of strict reporting documents, as well as the protection of watermarked papers and protective paints used for this purpose, article 9, paragraph 17, of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, in the bill, is a necessary step to strengthen State control over the production of forms of securities of strict reporting documents. The practice of the law in force today has already confirmed its imperfection. Unsanctioned production of materials with protective properties is a threat to the economic security of the State, for untreated availability of protective materials contributes to the production of counterfeits that cannot be controlled. It should be noted that State control of this activity does not in any way limit the manufacturer who has obtained the corresponding licence for this type. The implementation of the bill does not require additional financial costs. The adoption of Ukraine's amendment bill to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity will protect national and social interests and ensure Ukraine's security in strategically important areas. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u9	Thank you, Volodymyr Dmitrovich. Have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. The discussions included: Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please, faction "Our Ukraine." Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, have you now found out what small bills the government is introducing: making changes to article 9. Please count the time of your session here, the hall, the broadcast, everything else, and you'll conclude that those bills don't cost the eggs you ate, even the ones you threw in Timoshenko, and then the next day in another leader. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that's something to think about. And when you talk to a great thinker-professor, please explain to him that this is no way to use the legislative body. These bills are too petty, I overemphasize, to spend enough time on them. They can be accepted, and if they are not accepted, none of this will happen in the state. So, dear friends, I urge you to be complex and holistic, and the government calls for you to become a government. It's not even a government meeting, you know, it's the Supreme Council, not a chandelier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u11	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u12	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine supports the need to license the activities reflected in the three bills under consideration. However, I would like to draw attention to the following. The representative of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has been very professional in seeking the adoption of these bills, which may increase the income of Gosbudget through the licensing of these activities. Regrettably, however, corruption, bribery, which thrives in many ministries, government, presidential institutions related to licensing, enterprise registration, reduces, greatly reduces in income both the State budget and local budgets. I'll give you one example. This is where I stood in this hall last December 2000 and called on all deputies to support the two laws, mine and the President, on the priority development territories of the Sportkrim SS of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. He said, "Dear MPs, vote! He's dying, he's suffering from Crimea and so on and so forth." It's been a while, as we can see, and the results aren't good enough. What's the reason? Corruption, bribery all of this impedes the use of these laws for the benefit of both regions and the entire State. We have repeatedly said that there is a priority development area in China, and the US, what benefits the law approves and so on, we do not have. Why, that's understandable. Because it is likely that fish are rotting out of our heads and all of us, respectable compatriots need to draw an appropriate conclusion. I envy the Belarusians, where Alexander Grigoryevich Lukashenko has a strong hand not only to prevent “acceptance”, to privatize the strategic sectors of the economy by the oligarchs of Russia and other States, but also to the hatred of these oligarchs and the media, to defile them all. If elected by President Simonenko, it will naturally also work exactly and, I think, all respected compatriots, we will support Simonek in this regard. But with regard to this bill, I would like to say that we still need to support the Committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u13	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u14	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We've been looking at some of the bills recently aimed at amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Today, what is proposed, we can agree with it, it's some refinement, it's an extension, it's supposed to provide some sort of order in these matters. But I want to remind you again, maybe this is the third time that two months ago, that the entire bourgeois Supreme Council in a single wave and most of it, and the bourgeois opposition didn't support Bill 3366 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which included licensing for the mining of useful fossils. The law now regulates the licensing of uranium mining only, and it was intended to extend this right of control by the central executive authority to the extraction of all useful fossils, crops of national importance. Sadly, though, those who have uncontrolledly carried out their activities in this field, the field of drug use, have blocked the adoption of this important amendment. So I want to talk to everyone who's here today, and I want to talk about this bill. Of course, we'll do it again, and I personally, the appropriate proposals for licensing the mining of useful fossils, crops that have a national significance not only of uranium, but of all that we have in Ukraine. I implore you before the people of Ukraine, and I implore all the factions, and the good people, and you cannot do with the drama today. And this bill, which is presented, our faction will certainly support it, and others, which will be directed at at least a little bit of order and order of all the capitalist systems of farming, the plundering, the servitude system that came together today in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u15	Yes. Leonid Chernewsky. There's no Chernewsky? Oh, I'm sorry. Please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u16	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected radio audiences! Our Ukraine faction, Christian Liberal Party, Leonid Chernovetski. First of all, I'll tell you that the whole bourgeois part of the Supreme Council is happy to support this "streaky" licensing bill because we're about to be licensed for certain foods, because it's going to be more licensed. And I want citizens to understand why I do not speak so well of the laws on the regulation of certain activities. Respectable citizens! Dig what you want - gold, anything at all, because power has forgotten you, nobody needs you. And if you dig up an extra piece of gold, I'll only be happy, and many deputies from Our Ukraine will too. And behind each type of license are bribes, bribes, bribes and other bribes. Vladimir Mihajlovich, how much of this crap can you put on the Supreme Council? I said, bring people here today, we talked about deciding the main thing, taking away the benefits and privileges of all the officials. And the communists support this idea, and our Ukraine supports this idea, and the socialists. Of course that's the problem. You'll think of individual officials riding planes for bought not by themselves but by the people, and for all kinds of equipment. Millions of hotels and privileges have been designed and can no longer live with. Licensing is the way to nowhere, it is the path of the current Government, it is the way to create new types of ministries that will choose our citizens, who will ban them from doing certain jobs, and create new jobs. There's nothing else about it. And for our citizens to know, the leadership of the Supreme Council is issuing such bills, and my bill on the elimination of VAT, for example, is already running through the Supreme Council for a year when you buy a piece of sausage or bride and pay for it in the pocket of an oligarch, 20 per cent, and it's not there. And my bill on the status of judges, which is being put to the end today, is also, for some reason, put in such a way that it will be impossible to vote for it. But the new gunmen are hungry, the new millions are needed, and there's nothing behind this bill anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. May I have your attention, please? In accordance with the order of registration of the bill, I will put the committee's proposal to the vote. The committee's proposals are that three draft laws should be adopted on a basis. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law, registration number 5161, amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Please vote. [[16:27:25]] For-95 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities. Registration number 5349. Please vote. Based on the base. For - 79 The decision is not taken. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. Registration number 5727. Please vote. [[16:28:32]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I understand, well, if the government doesn't need such bills, we won't vote for it. “Our Ukraine” - 84, “Ukraine” - 4, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPO - 19, Timoshenko - 14, “Soyuz” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 0, “NDP” - 11, “Deminiciatives” and “The People’s Government” - 0, “Noffractional - 3. Dear colleagues, as I would like to draw the most attention to the last draft we voted on, I will put it to the vote. I demand that you vote on the adoption of the bill, registration number 5727, on the amendment to article nine of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Please vote. Please vote. For - 229 The "Ukrainen regions" thank you for supporting the government's bills. A draft Act amending the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the administration of property owned by the State is being announced for consideration. [[on the age composition of heads of state-owned enterprises]] Registration number 5206. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Gorbunov Lydia Mikolayevna. Budzigan Philip Philippovich will be the narrator. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the administration of property owned by the state. The proposed project proposes to address the age issues of government managers. The bill is designed to take account of the following. Since January 1, 2004, the master’s code of the Ukraine has become effective, setting out the basic principles of farming in Ukraine. The issue of enterprise management is defined by article 65 of the Code, which, according to part three of which the owner or the authorized authority appoints for the management of the enterprise, chooses the manager of the enterprise. According to Part Four of this article, a contract or contract with the head of an enterprise determines the duration of the contract, the rights, the duties, the responsibility of the parties. At the same time, article 73 of the master’s code states that the status of head of a state - owned unitary enterprise may be defined by law. At present, legislation on employment is allowed to set age requirements. Thus, according to part of article 22 of the Code on Age, Education, and Workers ’ Health, article 3 that is in force today, Ukraine’s legislation can determine the status of workers. The issue of contracting for today is regulated by this decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the administration of property owned by the state. In this context, it is proposed to amend this decree accordingly, complementing Article 4 of this Decree with the rule on the marginal age of the head of the enterprise, which is in state ownership and the order of the continuation of this age. The adoption of this project will have a positive impact on the formation of an effective human resources reserve for government managers. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u19	Yes, thank you. Please sit down, Lydia Mikolayevna. Philip Philipovich, position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u20	So it's short. The Committee on Economic Policy considered, at its meeting, a draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on the administration of property, which is state-owned as regards the age composition of heads of state enterprises, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on a basis. This project proposes to regulate the question of the borderline age of the candidate for head of a state-owned enterprise. In particular, it is suggested that the age of 65 may not exceed, but in some cases this age may be increased in an order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The main scientific and expert office similarly notes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to take the basis. The committee proposes to support Kabmin in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u21	Yes, thank you, Philip Philipovich. Let's go to the discussion: two in, two in, two in. Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In view of the fact that I, as the head of the Subcommittee on Legal Affairs, have to read all the drafts, explanatory notes to them, the conclusions of the Legal Service, the President and the Government, as opposed to most of the national deputies, I must say that the large number of such bills that the Government is currently proposing is the abuse by the Government of its right to legislative initiative and the obstruction of the Supreme Council to work properly. These bills are also covered by this bill, written by Yanukovic in principle: what I see is what I write about. You and I have accepted, the Supreme Council has adopted, as a basis, a government draft of the Labour Code. This is 1038. What, we can't show these moments there? Why are we doing this, why are you distracting us? The ministurate has to show an example of complexity and systemicity, and the Minius doesn't want to do it, or maybe he doesn't know it or he doesn't know it. I'm sick and tired of saying that I'm going to tell you again about the stability, stability and soundness of our legislation, because it's these factors, not even the size of taxes, that play a decisive role in the development of our economy, and in creating a climate conducive to it. Of course, you don't have to write the word "professor" with two "f's." The draft of this law must, of course, be rejected. We recently adopted a series of laws of the same plan. And I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give a protocol mandate to the Supreme Council's Office for the inclusion in mandatory algorithms of experts on draft texts by the Legal Service and the secretariats of the Committees on the compatibility of the project, any draft principles for the systematization of Ukraine's legislation and informing national MPs about the possibility of regulating the rules of primary laws in the texts of the existing laws of Ukraine, because it is absurd. They just passed the Milk and Milk Products Act, and it's already 09.07 in the agenda that the Milk for Babies Act has been introduced. And this appears, judging by the fact that there is a Ternian milk conservatory in the constituency of one of the authors. The original laws are laws, the text of which is the original text, which contains legal rules or prescriptions on a particular issue and which are later amended and supplemented accordingly. The reasons are clear. The Supreme Council thus far lacks an updated list not only of the original acts of the Supreme Council but even of the original laws. Today, there is more than just access to the facts. the time of access to the list of such acts, but also the list itself. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm handing you this list personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u23	Half a minute, and then we'll make up for the next performance. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u24	Half a minute. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I now give you this list in the presence of the entire Supreme Council. I want you to just know that. Even such laws as the temporary law on the sovereignty of the State in the event of death, a serious illness and a stay outside the state of the high-powered Master of the Hethman of all Ukraine, as approved by Hethman Paul Krapatsky, are considered valid in the new line of automated information and search system. So let's do it the way I suggest. And I'm giving you this list for Tiny so you can learn how to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u25	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Mikola Rudzkowski has a word for this. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u26	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, of course, considering this bill may raise questions about the relevance of its consideration at all. I mean, separately torn. But if we're speaking essentially, maybe this bill should be adopted after we've discussed it. If the Head of the Supreme Court is in charge of having reached 65 years of age, I think the Head of the State Enterprise should be responsible for giving young, healthy ideas, energetic people the opportunity to realize themselves and move forward, as it were. And so that we don't talk right now, as much as we don't argue here, we can essentially support this bill. That is why I would like to avoid arguing for a long time, and on the first reading, I would like to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u27	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, please, the only party in Ukraine. Prepare John the Rabbit. You don't? Then Valentina Semenyuk will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u28	Vadim Gurov, Krivbas. Dear colleagues! The problem of defining the age limit in the appointment of a position has been repeatedly raised in this room. However, it is not always appropriate to establish appropriate standards in legislation. Recall that the Constitutional Court recently declared such restrictions unconstitutional with respect to the rectors of higher education institutions. In our view, rejection is a similar approach to setting up a governing body of state - owned enterprises. First. Let's finally consider that state-owned enterprises are no different from enterprises of other forms of property. Accordingly, the main objective of these enterprises is to make the biggest profit possible only under the conditions of effective management. And that's why this government initiative looks kind of weird, because the competence and effectiveness of the manager's work depends not on age, but on personal skills, education, experience, in the end. And to say that after 65 years of losing these abilities, there's no reason. On the contrary, in some cases it is at this age that a person acquires the necessary knowledge. There are many examples of this in us, Ukraine, and abroad. Of course, we have to be sure that high - professional executives run state property. But other means have to be used to provide such a professional, and the government has to consider, not the age, but the creation of a transparent selection mechanism for directors of state-owned enterprises, the creation of attractive working conditions for the participation of the best professionals and, above all, the control of their activities. And the result would be an increase in budget income and an increase in the cost of government assets. Another argument against the proposed project is the demographic situation of Ukraine today. Because because of the large number of pensioners, we try to encourage people to do what they did when they reached retirement age. Therefore, in our view, we cannot afford to separate ourselves from the work of intelligent and experienced people simply because they have reached a certain age. Once again, the only criterion for appointment should be the professionalism of the individual. And the best example is our Hero of Ukraine, who was given a month ago, Michael Kostuchenko, the head of the largest rolling metal industry not only in Ukraine but also in Europe. He's in his 70s. So the "One Ukraine" faction suggests that this project be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u29	Thank you. Semenuk Valentina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u30	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. The main point that I would like to make today after the draft amendments to the Cabinet Decree is that the Supreme Council, with the adoption of the Constitution in 1996, decided to bring all the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers into line with the law. Therefore, today is an intolerant submission of a document amending the decree. The second thing I'd like to say. The President’s letters 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 stated that the Cabinet’s mandate was to adopt the Law on the Administration of State Property. We're bringing it in, and then Kabin himself is making proposals to reject it, and in the meantime, in fact, state property is managed by whoever wants it, in whatever way. And the selection of frame managers takes place in principle: who got in better and carried the larger bag. That's what I'm saying by accident. Because the situation that today involves the release of heads of state-owned enterprises under the Donetsks is already gaining tremendous sharp turns. This situation took place today at state-owned enterprises in Kiev, Dnipropetrovski, in the Luhansk region, Donetsk has already taken over the entire Wakhanalia. Therefore, in view of the fact that we should work systematically with you in accordance with the documents that have been noted since the adoption of the Constitution, on bringing our legislation into line with the new adopted Constitution, we should write down: the Cabinet of Ministers will submit by December 1st the Law on the Administration of State Property Objects and adopt in this sessionary room, where the right to appoint and release managers is not only dependent on age, but must be responsible for the work of the enterprise concerned, for the execution of the relevant economic indicators that should be indicated during its appointment and indicated in the contract, then we can talk about the adoption of such a document. If we're going to accept this document right now, it's actually patching holes that don't give a damn. One thing is that the Donetsks today, thanks to such a change, will be able to replace the heads of state enterprises in other regions as they are today. So either we stop this clan approach and we're going to adopt a legislative document, the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, which is practically defined by the Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "The Consequences and Perspectives of Privatisation". This is a document that you and I have approved. I'm asking you to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u31	Yes. Hello, Mother, please. The faction of the People's Democratic Party, industrialists and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u32	I'm surprised that at a time when there are really issues that need to be addressed in industry, in law, and at a time when there is no need at all to deal with how to free business leaders, today this is the question. It seems to me that today, in this election campaign, we have to forget about the change of directors at all. We have to finish the campaign and then do it. We have many examples that will not only help us but also harm our industry. That's why I'm so against it. In this I am supported by my faction and the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. I ask you to reject this law. If you do it, it's only in the spirit that one law in general on state-owned enterprises needs to be looked at, to run these businesses, and to look not only at how to release, at what time, but to think about the fate of those directors who are going to be released. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been reviewed. Matvienkov, with a motive, please. Now we're going to determine by vote. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u34	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. I still think that a little bit of the wrong way is we're coming to a solution to this particular problem. The effectiveness of work on human age cannot be assessed. I can give you dozens, hundreds of examples, of people 35-40 years of age who have to drive brooms out of work when they really hurt production. And there are dozens of examples of people who run structures effectively at 75 and 70 years of age. It's supposed to be on a different plane. How effectively we manage the public share of property. What does she give for the budget? What does it give the State? And how is it being managed today? This is on which side to approach regardless of age. And the question is, what will be the system of control over State ownership? How is it used effectively? It is from this point of view that this problem needs to be addressed, not from the point of view that we will place an age rating based on this age price, we will create visibility, we will talk about a struggle, or we will use it as a mechanism for replacing managers on certain sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u35	Review of the draft Law, Registration No. 5206, amending the Cabinet of Ministers decree on property management, which is a state-owned property. [[on the age composition of heads of state-owned enterprises]] I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the administration of property owned by the state. [[on the age composition of heads of state-owned enterprises]] Registration number 5206. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:49:24]] For 1 Well, dear colleagues, there's nothing to show for factions. Well, please, by the factions, come on. "Our Ukraine." The bill was rejected. The bill was rejected. A draft decree on some measures to honor the veterans of the Great Homeland War on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation from the fascist invaders is being announced. Registration numbers 55578, 5578-1. Reporters are the national deputy of Ukraine Rudzkowski and Bogdan Hubski. Anastasia's Valentin Alexiyovich from the committee will be speaking. Yes, please, Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, the draft ruling proposed by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, Lucenk and I foresee that the Supreme Council Committee should prepare a bill that reinforces guarantees for war veterans. The Cabinet of Ministers we recommend by the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine to provide material assistance, to make memorial signs and to give gifts and greetings to veterans. We also propose to increase the minimum pension to the subsistence minimum laid down by law for a working person, to provide a 100 per cent reduction in wages for the use of utility services, gas electricity and other services within the average consumption standards for veterans of the Great Homeland War, at the expense of the State Budget, and to anticipate this in the budget. We also suggest that we pay back the savings that veterans had on their books of at least 500 million dollars, predicting this in the budget. I'm addressing you, the profiling committee supports the draft decision to take the basis for further development, and given the realities of the budget, to accept it as a whole. I'm addressing you: given that 60 years is a big date, in Ukraine less than three million veterans of the Great Homeland War. These are people who have liberated not only Ukraine, but not just the Soviet Union, but the whole of Europe. They now have the main source of their income -- that's a pension. War veterans, half of them are injured, and are, in fact, in one way or another disabled, placed under harsh conditions today’s survival. We have to make, I think, a courageous move to vote in favour of the decree, and in the rest of the bill that will really give them the opportunity to live the rest of their lives safely. I'm asking you, and the faction of the Socialists is asking you to accept such a determination and to take a gesture of attention from our legislative body in relation to the people who gave us the opportunity to have an independent Ukraine, to live and to have hope for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's only one thing. We should probably take the project as a solution, because there's no second reading when we move it. Bogdan Hubsky, please. With respect to the draft regulation 5578-1, please. One minute, Bogdan Volodymyrovich. Chairman of the Committee, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u38	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I do not object to two decisions being taken today. Although yesterday, when we looked at the Conciliation Council, it was one determination. And the point is that the second decision with the tire sign was registered on October 1st, and yesterday it only came to the committee. So we couldn't physically look at it. Here's what we're talking about. In principle, the committee does not object to his acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u39	I got it. I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues to submit draft regulations at the right time. Please, Bogdan Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I think there is no doubt in any man that it is necessary to honor the veterans of the Great Homeland War and to improve legislation on their social protection. Because these people who have provided our present and our future, they are absolutely clear and they certainly need help today. And that's why we, and I personally think of ourselves as a huge unpaid debt to them, to those who fought in those terrible military years. And that is why it is the faction of the "One Ukraine" party that will always support all the initiatives aimed at improving the lives of these people. As a result, we have registered an appropriate draft regulation, in which, in particular very much, I would say so, clearly insists on the need to ensure in 2005 the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and to guarantee their social protection regarding: First, pay the veterans a war of annual assistance and free provision of war with special cars. Let us be frank today about the fact that even the implementation of existing legislation cannot be fully our gratitude to war veterans for their great cause. And we are convinced that we have no right to delay the implementation of even those legislative acts that ensure the lowest standard of living. [[And I'm in it myself.]] And today, in addition to paying for material aid each year, we must ensure that the next year, the free car will be completely eliminated. It's only 39,000 cars, so it's a gap within the State Budget. Again, we know that for the disabled, protecting us with you, our parents are often the only means of transportation. And that's why saving on this is probably not very moral. Our project is not limited to material possessions. We also believe that the growing generation should remember and know about the exploits of their parents and grandparents. And so there's also a recommendation to anticipate in the secondary school schedule a courage lesson that should be dedicated to the 60th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation from German-Fashistic invaders. With an invitation, a mandatory invitation to this lesson to participate in it by veterans of the Great Homeland War. It is during these lessons that young people will be able to learn about specific examples of the ministry of the home earth that will inspire our children for future perfection. Equally important is the provision of medical care to veterans, as well as attention to those veterans who are on medical leave, and therefore would be offered to local government officials, along with schoolchildren, to provide visits to health and health care facilities, since communication with children’s veterans will be the most incriminating of their souls and their heart to join them in 60 years ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u41	Thank you, Bogdan Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! Questions? It's a reduced procedure. We're going with a reduced procedure, no questions asked. Dear colleagues, we may proceed to the vote immediately so that we do not discuss it. Okay, then on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Excuse me, Anastasia's Valentin Alexiyovich, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u42	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities has considered a draft decree on some of the activities of the veterans of the Great Homeland War on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Moroz, Lucenko, Rudzkowski. [[Registration number 5578]] As already mentioned by one of the authors, the draft regulation proposes that, given the anniversary of the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders, the Government should be asked to observe and provide material support to war veterans. In the preparation and review of the 2005 State budget, provide for the costs necessary to increase the minimum pension of veterans of the Great Domestic War to the minimum of living laid down by law for working citizens, to submit a 100 per cent reduction in the payment of public services within the average consumption standards, to the payment of indexed cash savings and to the insurance contributions paid before 2 January 1992 to the institution of the former savings bank of the USSR, which operated in Ukraine and to the establishment of the former Ukrgostrakh at a total of at least 50 million grivens. The adoption of this regulation would naturally improve the social situation of war veterans. However, the Committee is of the view that certain provisions of the draft regulation need to be finalized and clarified. The Cabinet of Ministers expressed some doubts about the financial order, and the Legal Office had objections. It is therefore appropriate to establish a working group to finalize the document, taking into account the draft legislation on this issue, which has been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, the proposals of the Ukrainian people's deputies and other legal entities. On the basis of the foregoing, the Committee proposes: the draft regulation, registration number 5578, submitted by a group of people's deputies, should be adopted as a basis, refined and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its second reading. With regard to the second document, Peter Stepanović Cibenko has already reported here that we have not considered it on the committee, this document, and it is appropriate to include, perhaps, its contents in the finalization after the adoption of the first law as a basis, all of the proposals set out in the second document. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u43	Thank you. I just wanted to make it clear that there's a 500 million in the decree, and you called 50. 500 million. I'm just a radio listener. 500. Yes. So we are. We're having a discussion. Or are we just going to put it to a vote? Let's do it for one minute then. If. Who. No, no, no. They're all here. Then I will ask our oldest deputies, Igor Yukhnovsky and John Gerasimov. Just a minute. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u44	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I support those decrees that are made to the Supreme Council. But I want to point out that the number of participants in the Great Homeland War is increasing from one year to one year, and here we have to find a measure. The other one. As head of the All - Ukrainian Veterans Union, I stand in favour of honoring all veterans of World War II: both soldiers and officers of the Soviet Army, and UPA soldiers, and soldiers of the Ukrainian Division. Third. As a participant in battles, I urge young people who have no idea of the horrors of World War II not to speculate on the memory of millions who have died for their political interests. In this regard, on the eve of the election of the President of Ukraine, we do not have a parade on October 28 and move this parade to May 9. And to the end. I call on the district administrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u45	Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the main element of a veteran's life today is the pension. The Board of Veterans'Organization has repeatedly asked to raise pensions to the minimum subsistence minimum. Finally, on 18 September this year, the Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree on the receipt of veteran pensions. However, he did not raise his pension, but he did supplement his pension. In the regions, this supplement was responded immediately, subsidies for public services were immediately abolished and pensions were cancelled for special merit. That's outrageous. The veterans, who protected the honour, freedom and independence of their family, protected the nation, protected the people, freed the peoples of Europe from the “cortical” plague.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a motion for a draft ruling as the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 5578. Please vote. 5578 as a decree. Please vote. [[17:05:13]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. By factions, please, dear colleagues. Please. “Our Ukraine” - 80, “Regions of Ukraine” - 32, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPO - 19, Timoshenko - 14, “Union” - 0, “Ukrainian One” - 1, “Centre” - 10, “NDP” - 12, “Deminitiatives” - 0, “O” - 3. [[I'm reading pros.]] A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the recalling of members of local councils is being announced for consideration. We have here, fellow citizens, and about the status of the national MPs, maybe we can look at them together, or we can look at them separately. Each and every one of them, yes. Project number 3735. Rapporteur of the National MP of Ukraine, Bespaly. From the Committee of Vladimir Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u48	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, you may agree that the only person who can protect the rights of the people, the rights of the territorial communities, the villages, the villages, and the cities can only protect himself. If a person is lawless, helpless, under administrative pressure, he cannot protect himself, not just human rights. Regrettably, legislation on the status of members of local councils provides such positions that make members of local councils very vulnerable. Of course, they should depend on their own electorate, necessarily the law and the Lord God. In the meantime, district and district authorities are very often putting pressure on them, and they are doing these councils only with appropriate managers. That is why we, the Ukrainian national deputies from various factions - Bespalij, Klukkowski, Matvienko and Olujko - have introduced a bill aimed at protecting members of the local councils from squabble and at their responsibility to the electorate. The clarifications that we propose to this Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils relate to the clarification of the order of the early termination of powers. Some work in this direction we have already done and eliminated with you such an absurd norm, when the matter of violation, of recalling a member of the local council could have started for so-called other reasons, so without any real reason and initiating it could have been any 25 voters. In Kiev, for example, which I have the privilege of representing, it has happened that the brotherhood of the sad Corchinsky, a co-worker of Channel 1+1, has blackmailed local council members that they will break the case upon appeal if these deputies do not meet this gentleman's demands. Thus, we propose specific rules: firstly, in cases where there are court decisions, if there are deputies of local councils, the court recognizes them as a wrongdoer, their powers are suspended by the territorial election commission. It is this commission that recognizes their authority and makes sense for it to make such decisions. This is the first position. The other one. We suggest that the council itself cannot initiate the question of the resignation of the deputies. The Council does not recognize their authority, and it will be if some of the colleagues present in the majority are to initiate the recall of simply disobedient deputies. So it's not just about protecting opposition deputies, it's about protecting any member of the local council who dares to have his own opinion. On the other hand, the electorate should receive information about those members of the local council who miss meetings, do not perform the Council's tasks, and we suggest that such information be made available to them. In addition, today’s freed employees of local councils are not entitled to work as entrepreneurs in their own households. Well, it's an absurd completely normality, and I don't think it should exist. Next, the order of release, we propose, and the room has already voted for it, only with the prior permission of the appropriate council. Finally, we suggest that the initiators of the recall of the local councils until they have yet to vote on this issue should initiate this procedure at their own expense, not at the expense of the local budget. Today's order allows any initiative group to completely drain the local budget just for endless recall and conversion. The next position, we think, is that if the MP was elected by the electorate, only the party can initiate his withdrawal, but not the other party. [[public organization]] Now there's such an absurd situation where, for example, a deputy motorist can initiate a recall, let's say, the Communist Party and vice versa. This is completely wrong. They don't do that to the honor of our parties, but that's what happens. And finally, we get a lot of requests from local councils for the quick support of the bill, and we hope that this support in the session room will be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u49	Boris Jakovitch, thank you. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please head of the Committee's Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u50	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. At the Supreme Council Committee of State Building and Self - Control, the problem of local councils is constantly under monitoring. The point is that we've noticed quite a number of large-scale withdrawals from local councils for reasons that are not directly related to their parliamentary activities, but that are often caused by certain relations between government administrations and deputies or between groups of deputies and individual deputies. Boris Jakovitch gave such examples. And so this was obviously the main reason why a group of Supreme Council deputies, committee members, regardless of their political orientation, drafted the bill. The essence of it is that, in fact, the standards that speak of the resignation of a local council member are grouped into several such positions. First of all, the role of the territorial commission, whose decision is mandatory, cannot be called the automatic expulsion of a deputy in connection with and there is a wide range of positions: the change in citizenship, death, or the taking of judgment. It's about making a mandatory decision to the commission, because there has to be an act. It should also be provided in time: from which to give a deputy is not a deputy, because it affects the quorum, the decision of the local council, and so on. So far, this has not been regulated in legislation. We've been looking at this subject with respect to the proposals of the Science and Technology Administration. And we think that there are valid comments that can be taken into account before the second reading and in the drafting of this bill. That is why the committee made a brief but unanimous decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the prescribed bill in the first reading as a basis. That's why I'm asking you, dear friends, to support this committee decision. And when we prepare this bill for second reading, we can also take into account the findings of the Science and Technology Administration, and other proposals from the National Deputies that will come from this question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Please, Vasil Fedorovich, the Cabinet of Ministers, who thinks about this bill. For a moment, please, and let's move on to the discussion. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. There is no question about professionalism, such as Boris Jakovič and other national deputies of the bill. At the same time, unfortunately, it contains very important flaws. The Ministry of Justice generally does not support the need to adopt this bill. A list of these errors on three printed pages may not need to be specified.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u52	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u53	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The bill, which deals mainly with the rights and duties of members of local councils when it adopts special changes in the protection of the rights of deputies and the rights of their electorates to step up their efforts to comply with their orders, to consider their role as a member of the local community from the respective district of the population, as has already been seen in practice, will bring nothing new. The new bill proposes a number of powers to pass on to the territorial election commissions, but it is well known that 90 percent of these committees did not work before the presidential elections began. And if work was to be done, this work was again initiated by the deputies of appropriate counsel. The positive thing is that the bill is drafted in such a way that many of the concepts of the law remove their different treatments that were in the existing law. At that time, he will not find his reflection in the places that relate to the recall of members of the local council, because in practice it has long become clear that the procedure is burdensome, long and nothing is guaranteed, where is the question of why it is necessary to spend time and other resources in order to create a new version of the bill. Much of what is reflected in the bill relates to procedural issues. At that time, there are other urgent problems with the status of members of the local councils who have so far been overlooked by the developers. To this day, for example, no analysis and suggestions have been given as to the rightfulness of the work of the deputies of appropriate councils in the positions of the local heads of the same councils, at a time when these positions refer to executive bodies. There is no explicit responsibility of officials for ignoring the execution of parliamentary appeals and parliamentary inquiries. In addition, when this bill is adopted, it is necessary to take a critical view from this point of view that once the new Law on the Election of Local Councils has been introduced, it will again be time to make new changes, or perhaps adopt a completely new law in the world of political reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Mikhailo Melniczuk will speak after.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I've got it. With this bill, it's a twofold impression. Why two? Because, on the one hand, we have to change the situation, and on the other hand, we have to change it in a way that is constitutional. Article 5 of the Law introduces changes that are in line with which the territorial electoral commissions are entrusted with the decision to terminate the powers of the local council’s deputy on an early basis in cases where the decision of the council has been terminated without a decision of the council since certain circumstances have taken place. I'll tell you, there have been examples of pressure on MPs, yes, many, but no one's forcing a deputy to do anything against conscience, no one. How they can't keep us here today. So I would like to draw your attention, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, as a guarantor of a certain Constitution, the only person in office today who is not going to be elected, at least, and will remain in this office for a long time, I would like to draw attention to the situation in the Luhansk region where there was a very terrible situation when, on political grounds against the mayor of Lukianka, Sergio Vasilovich, they committed a criminal case on the facts that were long before the election, and generally on facts that had no criminal colour whatsoever. After violating a criminal case, they forced the deputies to vote in favour of removing the person from the position of city head without a sentence that would be legally binding. Moreover, the decision of the Luhansk Economic Court came into force in which the acts that had been incriminated were the basis for this man’s unlawful conduct. Thus, the case was to be terminated under paragraph 6.2. But. I mean, for not being a part of the crime. But the city council did. decided on the appointment of re-elections of the Red Luck City Head, spent more than 200,000 dollars on the budget, held the election, depriving it of the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the committee of Mr. Matviennek is silent, and the administration of a certain Secretariat of the Supreme Council is silent, and everyone is silent! The Attorney General covers thieves, as there are also law enforcement officers. Thus, it is evident that such a council, which so brutally violates the laws, should be dissolved. But someone has to initiate this question. Speaking of the achievements in this law, I would ask you to support it in the first reading, and in the second reading, you have to throw out everything that is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u56	Yes. Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u57	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I support the authors of this bill, we need to take decisive steps to support our younger colleagues, these are the deputies of local councils. Of course, correcting the mistake that was made at one time when we left members of the local councils of inviolability, motivated by the fact that there were so many criminals. I think there's more of them out there today than there was. Actually, it was just a cover-up to have an impact on the MPs. So if it were time, I think that after October 31st, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will return to this question with appropriate suggestions. But the Constitutional Court did more when it diluted our local councils, meaning candidates from or we will speak to deputies from executive power. That's where evil is today that things don't work as well as local councils should do. Because there's heads of administration, there's their deputies, heads of administrations, each one of them has an idea, and in fact the only goal is to destabilize the work of local councils and work out the moments that are coming up. That's why today such amorphous local councils and rarely meet, we'll talk about the village council, the district council, the district council, I'm not talking about the city anymore, there's more or less of it going on. Therefore, the amendments to articles 5, 6, 38 proposed by the authors of the bill and other articles should be supported today. Although it should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is nevertheless noting that it is important to be careful about granting authority to the territorial electoral commissions, on this point, as regards the powers of local councils, this article 37(3), part one, should also be careful about this part. In general, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly advocated the support of local councils. Alexander Moroz, on this point, has repeatedly pointed out that if the foundation of our councils is the local councils, they will be strong, supported by the Supreme Council as the legislative body, we will have powerful legislative and representative power. Thank you. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u58	Yes. Leonid Mikhailovich Czernovecki, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u59	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich. Our Ukraine faction, Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk, Darnicke constituency. [[It's to remind you that my constituents, I hope, have not been mistaken in me.]] First of all, I want to say that this law is totally irrelevant. Because, for the most part, the main problem for members of the local council is their inviolability, which we have deprived them of. As far as the rest of them are concerned, the thicker the face of some village councilman, yes, the worse his peasants live on. And soon they'll be in such a state that we'll be taking tours there because people are born. And I want to tell you on a lot of the advice that I've had to deal with, because people, when they choose local authorities, just didn't understand what and who they choose, yes. It was they who chose people, members of the district and city councils who were supposed to make sure you had gas, water while the elevator was running. [[Who listens to me, remember]] And they chose 99 percent of the cockroaches. And this is about the very serious problems that my constituents have. Mayor Kiev is flying for $12 million on a plane. He'd have to fly on a broom because he's got nothing but sulphuric acid from which he doesn't have a load, so he doesn't have to drink like that. That is how he gets out of his speech. It's a nightmare, actually. They took the whole country, they stole what they could. They have no absolute benefits. It's a perfectly rude law. Call them back in the most ruthless way. I believe that the law must be changed in a completely different direction. Because our people just didn't know that democratic elections and that they chose assistants in the most specific things, they chose people who would steal local budgets from morning to evening. They don't do anything anymore. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again I want to remind my constituents, listen! They've passed a century-old law on price for factory directors. Well, I got one vote. Don't be embarrassed! Well, put again my law on the elimination of benefits and privileges. Let's go back to the savings books. Well, I won't give up on you. That's an honest word. Well, that's what you're doing. Let's eliminate VAT, let's think about it. How can you live like this without thinking about people at all? It's bullshit to bet on the Supreme Council, and we hear all that crap.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would ask that we do not humiliate ourselves, that is, the Supreme Council. We put in the documents that make the subject of the legislative initiative. Those bills, which did not obtain the required number of votes, are considered rejected and can only be tabled at the next session. That's what's gonna This requires order and regulation. And the negative result is also the result of Parliament’s work. Please, wetback Anatoly with a motive. Please come in. Well, the debate is about to end and it will be motivated. Let's get this over with. We haven't finished the question yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u61	Wekrousov, One Ukraine, city of Kiev. I have participated most actively in the consideration and development and in the overall support of this proposal, but I would like to request all of us, MPs, to do so. We often begin to speak from this rostrum about support, protection and so forth, but before that we make the biggest mistakes. I guess we had to think about local self-government when we passed a law on proportional elections to local councils. That is what we have really struck at local self-government, starting at the district and city levels. Now specifically on the comments I wish to make in connection with the draft law. The first is, indeed, a legally established position today when the powers of a member of a council are suspended. And today we're going to assign this to the territorial commissions after the court's decision, for example, I don't think we need to, we're just going to do the fib, and it's going to be a one-in-one-in-one push. Secondly, there are comments on the project, which Boris Jakovlevic introduced with Vladimir Dmitryevich, part of which means entrepreneurship. Then the Farming Act, which we have adopted, needs to be amended as well, because there must be any business activity under this law. With regard to the question of dismissal from work, deductions from higher education institutions, back in 2002, the Constitutional Court, you know, decided and declared unconstitutional the previous law. Therefore, it is likely that the Constitutional Court should either shake it down or not make any more of these proposals. And lastly, we have adopted a new law with you on the election of Autonomous Republic deputies, regional, urban, rural councils, and, of course, today all the amendments that we are going to make need to be compatible with these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u62	Thank you. With the motives of Matthew and Melniczuk. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u63	I'm not motivated. I would still like to make a statement about the presentation here today. I would like to offer an apology to all members of the local councils who have now been unwarrantedly treated as rogues. Among these categories of deputies are indeed those who care for grandparents, care for both water and sanitation, and work on road repairs. And today, this kind of approach, when it's so gross, from the rostrum, so to speak, just to earn money, let's say, points “under Girinovsky”, let's say, well, you know, that's not allowed, and that's the honor and dignity of the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u64	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u65	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine In fact, my colleague Matvienkov responded to the speaker. And in general, I don't understand how you can offend a large number of local MPs from the rostrum. How can we compare today’s bill with that that is not perfect when it improves the working conditions of ours, gives more authority to our deputies? How can we say about a rural MP who has nothing but a budget that gives 20,000 dollars here and needs to be made in the village and so on? I believe this deputy, and that he's speaking out of such a strong faction as "Our Ukraine." And that's why I'd like to have some moments of conscience when you're talking about a low-level MP, where they work. So once again, this bill needs to be supported!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u66	Terrence. Then there's the Master of Motives. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But I'm asking you not to jump.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u67	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, I'm actually more of a radio listener. I wouldn't want us to put ashes on our heads here and talk about how bad the Supreme Council is that, I said, we're looking at the law -- and we only got one vote. This, on the other hand, shows that the Supreme Council can be principled and take seriously what the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing. But I would like to point out to others that I think are more important. When it comes to very important laws, regulations, including war veterans, look at the faction that takes care of, say, Medvedchuk, doesn't give a single vote, they're not here. And what they're giving us is, you know, I'm not surprised if, let's say, Yanukovic offers us something like dual citizenship. And so I would like to say to people that our dear listeners are the Supreme Council, which will not miss it, so be calm: Your children will not serve in Chechnya. Yanukovich's proposal for dual citizenship, which he made after he was hit with an egg, will not go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u68	He's a craftsman. And then he's inescapable. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Žmerinski constituency. I think we should support this bill today, even in view of how we adopted this law regarding elections to local councils. And each of us, a major deputy, has faced the fact that today we have some problems with what we're going to have local councils, local councils for the next call. That's the first problem. And a second. I think that today, unfortunately, we still have some things to do about supporting their budgets, including. You remember this scandal that was with cab drivers today. And when local deputies today do not influence this situation when taxi drivers have arrived in Kiev, I believe that this is the level of local councils and that we need to support them as closely as possible in order to have this particular resistance that is in place. I'm in favour of supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u70	Boris Bespali, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u71	I am grateful to all colleagues and colleagues of the Masters, Melniczuk, and others who supported our bill. I would like to pay attention to a few circumstances. The first situation. Dear friends, here are virtually all the standards that we have adopted with you in other bills, they have been dedicated, and now they are gathered together to confirm their will and their solidarity with the local council. This is the first situation. It's a different situation. We've expanded the proportional composition of local elections, but still major elections at certain levels will remain one way or another. Finally. I think that, despite all our differences in political beliefs, we are all aware that without the full local self-government of a normal Ukraine, we cannot build. So I hope that we will all support this bill despite factional and party differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u72	Yes, the draft law has been completed. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the recalling of members of the local councils. [[Registration number 3735]] Please vote. [[17:35:51]] For 227 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine -90, Regions -4, Communist faction -53, SDPU -0, Deminiciatives - People's Government -0, Labour Ukraine -0, National Agrarian Party -19, SPO -18, Block Timoshenko - 17, Union -0, Ukraine -1, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -13, Center -5, Postfaction -7. Dear colleagues! A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is being announced for consideration. Three draft laws: 3712, 4153, 4201. Regarding Project 3712, the project’s authors requested that the consideration be postponed due to the absence of valid reasons. Then we invite you to the report by Tkač Roman Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Assadchev and Bespalam. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u73	4153. Roman Tkac, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Deputies of the local council! This bill is designed to set up another gap that we have in legislation and to give guarantees to the deputies of local councils. According to article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, a member of the local council who worked on a permanent basis in the council, after the end of the term of office, there is a previous job, a position, and in the absence of another equivalent job, a position. In the event of a failure to provide appropriate work or employment for a former member of the local council, the average salary he received in the election position of the council paid from the respective local budget is maintained, but no more than six months. These guarantees of local council members are also extended to rural, rural, and urban heads. [[Part five of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine]] In practice, however, it is almost impossible to employ former secretaries of rural councils and heads of rural councils or district administrations, while the employment centers refuse them to register, citing this lack of regulation by valid legislation. Thus, former rural and rural heads and secretaries of the village councils themselves should solve the problem of their employment. At the same time, when according to the law the time of the average wage for the period of employment is not included in their overall employment. In order to address this issue, I propose to complete part two of article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils with the following phrase: "At a time when a former MP has not temporarily worked in connection with the inability to provide him with a prior or organizational job or position immediately after the end of his term of office, he is included in the general and continuous service, the special service for which the deputy worked on a permanent basis." This is, by the way, part 3 of the Ukrainian National Deputies Act on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. I know there's a point, there's a conclusion of our administration. And I agree with that, and in the second reading, you can add that this period should not be more than the time when they get paid, that is, not more than six months. So I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u74	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Insomnia Boris Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u75	Boris Bespalij, city of Kiev, Committee on State Building of Local Self - Government Dear colleagues, on behalf of the local councillors, who have addressed us very much, I am very grateful for the support of the previous bill. Regarding this, well, the committee supported and considered, in fact, little in terms of the amount of change proposed by the National Deputys Tuck and Kostenyuk, and Krutz, the committee supported and considered, because there was one sentence that could be supported as a whole, but immediately taking into account the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, namely, that the internship should be completed in an uninterrupted manner as much as six months' wages are kept, so that no one would be tempted to work or actually, I don't know, to engage in entrepreneurial activities and to have a civil servant or local self-government official. So actually, I want to say for the transcript. In the bill, after the words "authority," you can add the words "but not for more than six months." In this case, there is no reason for such, in principle, to delay the second reading of the bill, which is important to those concerned. And I also wanted to say one word to protect bills that are small in volume but important. We sometimes say that there is no forest behind the trees. I want to say that there are sometimes no separate trees behind the forest, that is, we don't often see the fate of individual people, and when a person gets into such a tragic situation, he lives, for example, in a small town, in a village, a village where he can't work, and he just comes out, he goes to the social side. So I think it's important for us to have the fate of each of our colleagues, and it's impossible to say that bills that don't solve all the issues, and at the same time, there are those that are worthless, unnecessary, and so on. So our Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government thinks that this bill, which is small in volume and very clear, can be supported with that amendment, I said, as a whole. And I think that this is a decision that the Supreme Council can support. I think we have a procedure to vote on in the first reading, and then, if there is no objection to this proposal, vote on it as a whole. Thank you for your attention, I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u76	Boris Yakovich, I'd like the committee's opinion on all the bills to make a statement because you're standing here as a co-reporter from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u77	He just didn't look at it. So I can't say out of it, there's no point, he won't probably vote as I understand it. With regard to Law 4201 of the People’s Deputies of Assadchev, it offers an extremely interesting order special to the criminal responsibility of members of the local councils. Today, they're in this part defenseless. And we see how many examples, the last example that Kozina's village head draws to responsibility under very strange and unwarranted circumstances, to the Highlands. So there are a lot of situations. And we find it difficult to understand because these situations are not public. Therefore, it is proposed that the National Deputy Assads have such an order of special attraction to the criminal responsibility of members of the local councils. The prosecutor or the court refer to the appropriate council for the first time. This, for example, when it comes to the deputy of the village council, to this council, the district council, respectively, the deputy of the district council, means calling on the appropriate district council. If the decision of the Board is satisfied by the Prosecutor's Office or the court, regardless of what decision, gives the board consent to be held accountable, does not give consent, the prosecutor agrees: everything else is not developed, the deputy is either drawn to responsibility or not. If, and the situation may be, in principle, hand washes, the board covers because of the misrepresentative corporate solidarity of its MP, and the Prosecutor's Office disagrees with that, then the Attorney General's Office may refer to a higher level. For example, when it comes to the village, the village, the area, the district council, as far as the area, the district council, and the high-level council are concerned. If the prosecutor agrees with this council’s decision, then the situation is exhausted. If the Prosecutor’s Office disagrees with the decision of the district council, then the Attorney General or his deputy is already addressing the Supreme Council. I remind you that with regard to a few thousand judges, there is an order of appeal in the case of criminal liability to the Supreme Council. And I think the local council's deputies deserve this kind of order. The order proposed by Deputy Assadchev, on the one hand, does not allow anyone to violate the law with impunity. And on the other hand, it makes it impossible for the innocent to be held accountable, because the situation is gaining publicity, and, of course, the prosecutor's office will be more serious about the issues at hand. I think the bill as very interesting would be worth supporting. He's supported by the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u78	Yes, please, is there a need to discuss? For Yavorowski's reasons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! I would like to point out that, although the Shurma bill and other deputies have been drafted, I haven't considered it today, but it's the conclusion of the committee, it's in the agenda today. That's why I think you and I should do a faction service that doesn't actually work in the Supreme Council today. But their bill should be considered. Put him to the vote. It's very normal. We will vote and it will pass accordingly. But we have to put all the bills to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u80	Please, Carmazin and Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u81	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Very good changes to legislation are now being proposed. I mean Law 4153 and Law 4201. I'd like to agree with what the Bespalian has just said right now is to make a direct change right now, so that at the stage of the concept in article 33 where "time" is written, add "but not more than six months, taking into account the time of your vacation or the hospital." If we do not complete this, vacations and hospitals will continue for six months. This is the first time. Under the second bill, 4201, in fact, a special order of criminal responsibility is proposed, and this is a guarantee of the rights of voters through the protection of the rights of members of the local councils. In such a way, we can vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u82	Please, Melniczuk, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u83	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I've signed up for the speech, I've been given three minutes under the Rules, you give me one minute. But maybe I will, and if I don't, you will. My colleague Yavorowski suggested that we look at the bill that he passed go first. But I want you, my dear friends, to say that the committee has rejected this bill because it is duplicatingly accepted. The changes are the same, and the word for May 15, 2003, was Bill 3477. And today's bill, it duplicates it. Therefore, there is no point in considering it. Next, what about the proposal of the authors for the two bills. I believe that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will make this statement, and I think we will support this bill. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u85	I'd like to warn you. Dear friends, dear colleagues, here have repeatedly spoken to the people's deputies of Ukraine, let's not just declare ourselves, but make a conscious vote and support local self-government. You see, there are factions in this room who don't take part in the vote, but you, dear friends, are here. Well, look, please, our local council friends are waiting for you. Do you want them to support a suitable presidential candidate? Well, how will they do that if you don't support them at the legislative level? So we've been talking about this and we're saying again: let's support the local councils. I ask you to vote in favour of the proposed two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u86	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u87	Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear friends, we are now adopting very important bills, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a method of short steps, small steps. You realize that the state of the most unprotected network of MPs depends on local administrations, district and district authorities, and that's where they get pressure on them, and that's where they control how they work. So our task may be to accept these bills. But it should totally depend on what reform should and constitutionally go through, as we talked about. And of course, this illegal existence of all these governments should also be abolished. It goes against both the Constitution and against the laws that we have cut today. And another explanation I'd like to make. Half a minute, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to do that these six months, which are given, should be tied together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have thus concluded our discussion of the matter. And I think that the right colleague of Yavorowski is talking about that we've essentially discussed all three of these bills, because the profile committee has been talking about them, and the speaker of Melniczuk has been talking about these bills. That is why we will be determined in the same order. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, registration number 3712, is submitted to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:52:14]] For-27 The decision is not taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4253]] The author is Tjak. [[17:52:44]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4201]] The bill is written by the National MP, Assadchev. Please vote. [[17:53:15]] For 225 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 96, Ukraine - 0, Communist - 57, Social Democratic Party - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 12, Socialist Party - 19, Timoshenko - 17, Union, only Ukraine - 0, Center - 6, NDP and industrialists - 12, Deminicative - 0, non-fractional - 6. Who's in favour of going back to the final bill, please vote. Please vote. [[17:54:08]] For 231 Decision taken. I am voting for the adoption of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which is the author of the bill, Deputy Assadchev. [[Registration number 4201]] Please vote. [[17:54:40]] For 234 Thus, out of the three bills in the first reading, Bill 4201 was adopted. Let's not rush. Dear colleagues! I'm going to continue this 15-minute session to finish this chapter at all. We still have here the symbolism of local self - government. Pinzenic, please. And I'm asking Olookie to prepare. Pinzenic microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I ask you to intervene with the Supreme Council in the situation that has now taken place in the 56th pavilion at the performance exhibition, where two national deputies are blocked: the head of the Strtovic and Jętjak Committee, where several million reprinted provocative cards have been discovered. The MPs are essentially under arrest. I have a request to address the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and send deputies there because we are all about to be arrested in the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! The corresponding assignments will be given. The draft Law on the Symbolism of Local Self - Government is being heeded. [[Registration number 3388]] From the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Oluiko Vitali The author is, excuse me, I have not seen the author. Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, author.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! If we were to finish our major note today, I think it's a serious piece of legislation that's focused on the field of local self-government and adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Symbolism of Local Self-Government. Modern - day Ukrainian legislation has several legal provisions that deal directly with questions of the Heraldics. This is article 20 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines national symbolism, article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, which provides for the right of territorial communities of villages, cities, districts and regions to have their symbolism. Both the Constitution and the above - mentioned law state that the description of the symbolism and the order of its use are defined by a special law. So it was predicted that a law would be passed that would introduce the rules of the Heraldic into the legal field. On the contrary, there is no such law at present. That is why a draft Law on the Symbolism of Local Self - Government is proposed to remedy this situation. The project is designed to optimize the legal framework in the field of determining the status of local symbols and how to apply it by creating a basic law that focuses on the basic rules governing relations in the sphere under consideration. The aim of the project is to bring the legislative framework in the sphere under consideration to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the basic applicable legislation in the field of regulation of matters of local self-government. The bill lays down organizational and economic principles for the application of the symbolism of local self-government in the context of the construction of the rule of law. The project reveals the very concept of the symbolism of local self - government, notes the circle of objects that may qualify as local symbols or their constituents, indicating that local symbols include names, images, monuments of history and culture, religious buildings, monuments of nature, elements of the landscape of the streets, and so on. A list of objects, a history and culture monument, which refers to local symbols that are established by the appropriate authorities of local self - government and are placed in the central register of censuses, which is responsible for the introduction of the draft law by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The project sets out the arbitrary order of use of any symbols, and the congregation provided for using local symbols will make a substantial contribution to the local budget. The purpose of such a congregation is to compensate part of the local budget for the preservation and restoration of historical, cultural, and historical sites, as well as for the development of local tourist infrastructure. Please support the Ukrainian National Deputies in their first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u92	Thank you. Have a seat. From the committee, please, Olujko Vitaly Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u93	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, have considered a bill submitted by the National Deputies. It defines organizational and economic principles for the application of local self-government symbols. Finally, it is necessary, indeed, to legitimize the presence of symbolism that is now prevalent in local self - government and has no legislative anchor. This proposal is aimed at bringing the legislative framework into line with the requirements of the Constitution and is consistent with other laws. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the named draft law on the basis of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u94	Thank you. Do those who have signed up insist on performing? No, it's not. Then we will. Carmazine, please. No, I'm 15 minutes late. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u95	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, general comment on the law on the symbolism of local self - government. To comply with legal regulations, this is before the first article, you need to number all individual parts of the text. Even in cases where there's only one part of it that speaks of a lack of technical and legal level of that project. To the article in the third article. You also need to specify a breast badge. Because unlike the order previously established, the city councils themselves set the size and shape of the deputy’s badge. As a result, he almost always copies the badges of the Ukrainian national deputy. We've done this before, it's been installed, it's settled. Now the whole anarchy is coming. Next. To the fourth article. The list of objects and monuments of history and culture is not directed by Minust. And here we have to make a point. It should also be recorded that the appearance of breastplate icons is confirmed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, we should adopt this law and consider it part of the Law on Local Self - Rule. You understand that this is exactly what we're talking about systematizing and codifying legislation. And I'd like to ask the chairman, because the head of the Supreme Council is somewhere else, and I gave him a list of the automated information and search system. I would like him to entrust the Computerized System Authority with such a task. To give such an assignment. By the end of this day, a list of the original laws on the pages of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Internet "Legislatives and Bills", so that all the subjects of the legislative initiative can be guided by what laws are already there so that they do not invent new ones and think about how to install existing laws. The other one. I would ask for such an assignment. To place the legal, not computer, emphasis on the apparatus’s obligation to maintain an electronic register of valid primary acts and to describe which committees of the Supreme Council are the main ones in preparing projects for consideration that should carry out control functions for the implementation of these laws. To provide legal services for this purpose, computers and normal printers are still hand-made on typewriters. I have already raised this question before the Head of the Supreme Council and, unfortunately, nothing has yet been resolved because the Secretariat is currently preparing the wrong directive for Vladimir Mikhailovich. You have to do it by the end of the day and report it. In general, I propose this law in the first reading to adopt and continue to codify as I now request the leadership of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u96	Yes, thank you. Shall we vote? No, no, no. Solomatin, please. After him, Yavorowski, followed by Mokrousov. There is no Mokrousov, meaning Yavorovsky. Yes, please, Solomonine is passing the microphone from the place of Pomorenko. Ponomarenk's microphone, PPU faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u97	A colleague of Melniczuk spoke about the budgets of local councils when discussing the previous issue. I just got back from the Zitomir region. He was in six village councils - 35,000. The village council budget: two villages, two clubs, two libraries, two FAPs, three thousand -- these are their own funds, 32 -- grants. I mean, no pants, but with a standard. I think we need to talk about a material and technical base, and then we need to talk about standards for symbolism.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u98	Yes, I can't see Mokrousov. Please, Yavorowski, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u99	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski Jovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block Dear colleagues, I'm the last one, perhaps, or I'm the last to speak. I want to say that this bill seemed kind of sweet and sweet and very normal to me, because, frankly, after decades or even centuries of impersonality of our being, of the sameness of our being, it's a bill that somehow brings Ukraine to some standard where every village, let's say, every firm has a logo, has a symbol, has a symbol. This bill contains, I would say, a national memory even of national consciousness. It's very good that we can use this bill to restore the old herbs that have been in Ukrainian lands for centuries, in Ukrainian colonels and non-police cities. That's very good. Once again, this bill must be supported, let it be. I understand that it's not just going to come true, maybe even a mania of this, of herbomania, as it were. But I think we're gonna get through this, and it's gonna be okay. I ask those small forces that we have left to press those buttons and vote in the first reading. And I have half a minute left, and I want to bring to light not so many national MPs, you know, and you understand everything, how to know the first, second and third channels of television and officialism, which today is that Reuters apologized for the fact that it published false information that was unintelligible about Victor Yashchenk's actual health and his poisoning. This is a colossal example of the democratic press, which by making a mistake, they were founded, found the courage of the world to claim that the information that was published is false. You know, it was prepared by some lousy business company that, without a doctor's signature, put it all on the air. I really want my voters to know the truth, too. So there was poisoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u100	Oh, he'd better not be! Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that such a bill should be in the state. However, in the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine there are enough claims against him. And most importantly, those claims that we don't see that he's clearly building up the system on this issue. However much this bill is not being praised today, I still have to say that in symbolism in our state of disorder, and to this disorder has been trained by our high politicians at the level of the state. Recall, in previous years, that there were auctions in the preceding vocation. Today, too, when the anthem was adopted, they also did what they say does not unite Ukraine, and let the people get used to it, they said. And today I have to draw the attention of the National Deputies to the next. The Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, article 22, provides that local communities can have their own symbolism: coat of arms, flag, and so on. I believe that in the proposed law, article three, we should clearly write what is "another attribute of territorial communities," because we already have examples, I can give you an example of the Herson area, when without any system outside the laws of rural communities, the village councils approve questionable songs as an anthem. What, then, will happen if we sing both the National Anthem and the District and the District and the Village and the Rural at appropriate festivals? Where are we going next? So, first of all, if we're going to adopt this law in the second reading, we probably need our lawyers to tell us. If there is a right in the community similar to having an an anthem, you should have one. And if not, let them sing, excuse me, songs. But this is not the anthem of the respective territorial community. And if there are any other shortcomings, of course there is no definition of the local tax system, the method of determining the respective congregations, well, what I said, there is no clear control in the places of the law enforcement authorities, because we have the appropriate symbols at appropriate sessions of councils and so on. Therefore, the Communist faction will not vote for the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m1.u102	The discussion is over. Let's be clear. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the bill on symbolism of local self-government. [[Registration number 3388]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:11:18]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 73, regions of Ukraine, communists, social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 10, Socialists - 10, Block Timoshenko - 10, Union - 0, Only Ukraine - 0, Center - 0, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 0. Dear colleagues! You and I have been doing a lot of good work today, and we've adopted a whole series of, like, dozens of bills. This evening’s session is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
