ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:07:03]] Registered -391 There are 391 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. People's deputies are invited to sign up for statements, messages, and suggestions. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Please provide a list of who signed up. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Gregory BONDARENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to develop a bill on urban food and goods markets. Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for ignoring officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Maria MARKUS to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, the reduction of funding for medicines and social services, the lack of travel for Chernobyl residents in the Zakarpatsky region. Anatolia PALIGARY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt on the salary paid to the workers of the “Enakijemetalurgbud” construction office of the city of Jenakiyev. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the Ukrainian market for security services. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to a request from March 25, 2004, regarding the situation surrounding the Institute for Postgraduate Education of Workers in the Field of Domestic Services. Stepan Bulby to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Military Staff of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons” for the recalculation of previously appointed pensions and the elimination of existing imbalances in the size of employees' pensions. Vasil TUSHKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the violation of the constitutional rights of workers at Odessa City Hospital No.12 and the provision of medical assistance to residents of the Primorski district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to improve the work of the National Agency for the accreditation of Ukraine. [[CARMAZIN, NADRA, GUROV, and others Total 14 deputies]] Paul KACHAURA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, as a result of the restriction on the rights of these citizens to receive monthly compensatory payments. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on deliberate violations of the Ukrainian Advertising Act by the Tumen Oil Company and the Kyiv District State Administration. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the telephoneization of the village of the closed mine “Red Yellow” of the city of Jenakiyev. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the free receipt of medicines for Chernobyl, as provided for in the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Accident. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the rehabilitation centre for children with disabilities in the city of Gola Port of Hersson. Vassil KALINČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the purpose of reforming the Black Sea State Inspection. Oleg PETROVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the preservation of documents relating to the salaries of employees of decommissioned institutions, enterprises and organizations in rural areas. Omelana PARUBKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release of petrol to participants in hostilities and to persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War at foreign prices. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the regulation of price policy in the country’s metallurgical industries. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the inclusion in the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukraine Act on the 2004 National Budget for Ukraine, amounts to 6 million 134 thousand dollars, which was technically lost in the town of Winnica at the time of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2004. [[ZARUBINE, CALETNIK, MASTRISHINE, AND OTHERS Total 6 deputies]] Vladimir MATWEYEV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of additional types of monetary compensation, the recalculation of pensions, the elimination of pension imbalances for military personnel and pensioners of internal affairs bodies of the former USSR. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of part of the property complex of Military City No. 50 to the property of the territorial community of the city of Bila Church. Taras STECHKIVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation of pensions to the rehabilitated victims of political repression in Ukraine. VICTOR OF THE Prime Minister’s divorce in connection with the 2004 financing plan for the construction of the Babichivka - Red Army Zitomir district gas pipeline. Igora JEREMEYVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt on payments provided for in article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the repair of an emergency residence in the village of the Tereswa Tachiv district of Zakarpat. John STANDING to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the public activities of the Constitution of Ukraine and the language legislation of the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikola Azarov, Head of the Central Election Commission Sergey Kiwalov, wife of the President of Ukraine. Paul KACHAURA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to execute the Ministry of Health of Ukraine Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of October 2, 2003 “On the Approval of the State Registration of disinfectants”, the closure of production, the ban on the implementation and use of disinfectants, the deadline for which certificates have not been completed and which have been entered into the Accounting List of disinfectants in Ukraine. Mr. Jaroslav JDJIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the price of transport services to the Railway Station. Sergia ČELNOKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation to the road transport companies of the Kyiv Region for the loss of income categories of citizens from the State Budget of Ukraine. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the use of measures to endanger Ukraine's national security in connection with the theft of state property on a particularly large scale and the attempts of individual officials of the State Shipbuilding Company, the Black Sea Shipping Company, and the authorities of the State to arrange for Ukraine's sole specialized environmental protection vessel, Marmara-1, for the benefit of foreign enterprises. Taras STECHKIVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for the damage to Lvivveltrotrans from the State Budget of Ukraine for the transport of passengers of the tax categories. Eugen HYRNIKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on Unwarranted Increase by the State Administration of the “Urzlaznica” of April 1, 2004, tariff rates for the transport of finished products which are shipped in their own mobile warehouse. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conclusion of contracts and contracts for the construction of housing for military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Kiev. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Prime Minister on speeding up the work and introducing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the bill “On the Recognition of the Deported Ukrainian Population Forced in 1944-1951 from Poland to Ukraine”. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister to resolve the issue of the payment of wages due by the Mayan Agriculture Association of the Black Sea region of Poltava. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the subject of an unsatisfactory settlement of the issue of repayment of the debt for the gasification of the villages of the Kyiv region. Omelana PARUCA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Reduction of Payments for the Conversion of Documents to Housing in the event of the death of one of the spouses. MIKOLI MELNIKA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco to assist in the operation of the village of Guyov Bar region of Winni Doubius in 2000. Mr. Paul TOWCHANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the lack of law enforcement action to appeal to former colporteurs for the theft of property of the collective agricultural enterprise “Popolski” in the Novosanjar district of Poltava. Roman TWAČA to the Attorney General’s Office on the issue of compensation for material loss and moral damage in connection with the premature death of Dr. Dnipropetrov’s Children’s Hospital Valery Shevchenk. Gregory OMELCHENSKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration, to ensure that the planned documentary examination of financial and economic activities is carried out, that the tax and monetary law requirements are met by a limited liability company “Storages” and that legal decisions are taken as a result of the verification. Mr. Yulia TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office as head of the Eupatoria District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Boxeu. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office as head of the Novomirgorod company “Rajagrobud” Vasil Korotnyuk. PAUL QUICHANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of misappropriation of funds spent by residents for the gasification of the village of Drižin Grebl Kobeljak district of Poltava. Mr. Mikoli KULCINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of effective legislation by the Education Department of the Okjabran District Council of Poltava during the restructuring of the preschool network. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of illegal actions by officials of the Bilopil District State Administration and the Kuyanov Rural Council of the Suma Region, the use of measures to put an end to the restrictions on the economic activity of the Open Shareholder Society of the Kuyaniv Burjacorosp, including by the Prosecutor's Office of the Suma Region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the reform of the agricultural sector. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the realisation of property by the Director of the private agricultural enterprise “Rescheduling” of the Reschetil district of Poltava region without the consent of the owners of the ponds. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Pro Prosecutor's Act, the Position on Class Practices of Workers of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office and the use of measures of prosecutorial response to repeal the illegal decisions of the President of Ukraine regarding the assignment of Sergio Kiwalov's class actions by the Public Counsellor of Justice. Ms. CHICHANOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation during the prosecution of Sevastopol in criminal proceedings against Victor Kaklugin. Vladimir JAVORISKOVSKI AND JOURIA KARMAZIN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal offence of abuse of a position of duty, excess of official authority, the theft of public funds on a particularly large scale, the use of forged documents, the official falsification by the heads of the Lviv Specialised Mechanized Mechanized Mechanized Column No. 7. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against corruption and organized crime, Head of the High Council of Justice, Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the violation of the criminal case for the illegal possession of collective property by Teresva of the Tachiv district of Zakarpatsk. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the criminal offence against the Head of the Volin District Authority, Anatolia Frances, on the basis of the illegal financial transactions that took place in 1999-2001. [[RED, ALEXIUM, SCHOOL, AND OTHERS Total 6 deputies]] Gregory OMELZENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for deliberately delaying the decision by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Gennady Vasiliev, to take a decision on the offence and to bring responsibility to the Deputy Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine for the abuse of a position of service on useful grounds, which he has committed in his capacity as Attorney-General of Ukraine, as announced publicly by the Head of the Coordination Committee for the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption of the President of Ukraine, Olga Kolinko, in October 2003. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delaying the examination of the fact that the officials of the Lutka Volin Region police have exceeded their official authority and the systematic write-offs of prosecutors on the application of a citizen of Natalia Beští. OXANI BILOSIR to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the Cemetery of the Roman Catholic Church and the violation of current legislation on the return to religious organizations of religious property. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for a tow truck with signs of corruption of the law enforcement authorities in the Volin area of crime detection -- car theft. [[TURCHIN, ONOPENKO, KYRILCHUK]] --Oleksandra KEMENYASHA to the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Establishment of Causes, Elimination of Consequences and Use of Measures to Prevent Resurgence in the City of Vinograd of the Zacarpathian Region. --Michael KULČINSKI to the Minister of Defense, excuse me, for the protection of Ukraine's health, for the closure of the 4th Corps of the Poltava District Sanatorium for children with disabilities. - Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation on environmental protection by the Council of Cherkas in order to allow the construction of AZS in the area of parks and squares of the city. --Michael KOSIVA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on speeding up the return from the Kingdom of the Netherlands to Ukraine of Albrecht Durer's paintings taken from the city of Lviv in 1941. — MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Family Affairs, and young Ukraine to support the treatment of leukemia in the village of Komargorod, in the province of Tomaspil. --Michael SHERSHUNA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV TO THE MINISTRY OF THE U.K.A. ON SURPRISE SITUATIONS AND POPULATION PROTECTION AGAINST THE EFFECTIVES OF THE MONROBIL ACCORDING TO THE 2004 EXPENDITURE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENTAL BUDGET - VICTOR OF THE DESCRIPTION TO THE U.K.A. Health Ministry for the provision of dental equipment to the Sokolovsky District Hospital of the Red Army District of the Žitomir Region. - Anatolia Rachánské to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the Novooserni Village Council of the City of Eupatoria of the free premises of the military town of the South Naval Base of the Army-Morish Forces of Ukraine. - Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on violations of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine by the Cerkas Regional Government Administration. MICILI RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on cases of illegal denial of the housing and utilities of the city of Chernigova in the enjoyment of the legal rights of citizens to benefits. Leonida Vernigori to the first Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Directorate-General for Combating Organized Crime of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of colleagues of the Office for Combating Organized Crime in the Kharkiv region. MIKOLI KRUĆA to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on speeding up the examination of the case-file complaint by Johno-Frankov, a professional construction license for the decision of Johno-Frankov City Court. Mr. Tomenka, head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for information on the declaration by the President of Ukraine of free rehabilitation treatment in Germany. JOURIA ARTEMENKA and Alexia BABURIN to the head of the High Council of Justice for the illegal actions of Judge Ordjonikidzewski District Court of Zaporozhye Peter Koval. JOURIA ARTEMENKA to the head of the Qualifying Commission of Judges of the Courts of Commerce of Ukraine regarding the illegal actions of the judge of the Court of Justice of Kyivka Katrić. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service in response to a request of February 25, 2004, regarding the illegal involvement of the Ukrainian Security Service in the activities of the Ukrainian Independent Mining Trade Union. Groups of National Deputies to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the revival of traditional sports and combat combinations and applied martial arts of the Ukrainian Cossack “Spas” and “Fighting Gopak” in the civil, military and law enforcement education system, as well as in the power structures of the State. [[QUIET, RED, SHERSHUN, AND OTHERS. Total eight deputies]] Julius TIMOSHENKO to the head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the violation of the rights to housing of residents of former Corps No.13 of the Scientific and Production Union “South” and the Marat sanatorium in Yalta. Mr. Tomenka to the Head of State for the affairs of the President of Ukraine on providing additional information on sources of funding for expenses associated with the stay of the President of Ukraine’s treatment in Germany. Alexander HUDIM to the head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on the reasons for the significant underestimation of electricity prices for the “Burstin Energy Island”. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for financing the construction of gas pipelines by the National Shareholder Naftogaz Ukraine for the debt of the past years. Alexander MOROZOVA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the creation of a municipal insurance company to carry out medical insurance in the capital of Ukraine. Leonida VERNIGORI to the Head of the Lugansk Territorial Authority of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market on the procedure for the registration of additional emissions of shares carried out by the State Company Lugleginvest of investment projects at the expense of public funds. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the establishment of a specialized public education facility for visually impaired and visually impaired children in the Volin region. Prosecutor General Vasilyev of the Polish People's Deputy for Dissatisfaction with the reply of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to the parliamentary request of February 12, 2004 on the use of response measures for the appeal of a falsified claim from the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court. NATIONAL NATIONAL National Deputy, Anatolia NALIWAIKA, to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal by the Deputy Minister of Jury. Member requests, parliamentary requests are completed. We had nine minutes left to make statements. Well, let's take at least 15. Please, Bespali, follow him, Skomarowski. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u3	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! There were no winners and winners in the Ukrainian Parliament yesterday -- everyone won yesterday. The "Our Ukraine" faction is convinced that all of us, the Ukrainian Parliament, passed through that line yesterday, which somehow divided Parliament. There was a line of division and suspicion. What happened yesterday is that this is yesterday's collective victory for all of us, giving us a chance to organize a peaceful and effective work for the benefit of all of our Ukrainian citizens, both by October 2004 and after the 2006 parliamentary elections. Dear colleagues, we have passed a very important, responsible test. I urge you all to take this unique opportunity to organize a constructive, fruitful work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u4	Please have Skomarovsky's word. Get ready for Cyril. None. Then please, National Deputy Kirilchuk. Get ready for Nicolanek instead of Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u5	Please give the floor to the national MP, the leader of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u6	Julia Timoshenko. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. Yesterday was a great, happy day for the history of Ukraine, for the fate of Ukraine: yesterday was not allowed to take place in the constitutional rebellion of Kuchma Medvedchuk. The Supreme Council was unable to vote yesterday for the constitutional changes proposed by Medvedczuk and Kuchma. This bill is rejected. And I would like to thank those 37 people's deputies, one socialist, one communist, 35 independent deputies and members of the majority factions. These are real heroes of Ukraine who understand. [[Applause]] who, realizing that they are behind their vote against constitutional rebellion: repression against their families, destruction of their business, destruction of their friends, colleagues, -- they still have the strength to press the button as the people of Ukraine need. The position of our Ukraine, the faction of our Ukraine, and the faction that I lead, is well known. But these people did a genuine civil act. Now, under the 158th article of the Constitution, part 1 cannot put these shameful changes to the vote during the year. Yesterday a dot was placed not only on the constitutional rebellion but also on the Kuchma regime, because it was from yesterday. ..he started his way to final destruction, and I want to address all the honor deputies who work today mostly just because their hands are twisted. Feel free to switch to healthy forces in the country. I think that the left forces in Parliament, who saw the situation yesterday, too, namely, the destruction of power must unite and we must all conquer the regime of Kuchma and its clans. There is every reason for that. Dear friends! This day -- yesterday, April 8, will enter the history of Ukraine forever, like the 37 people who are real heroes of Ukraine. Now it's right behind us. To unite and win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, let us all warmly welcome Gregory Petrovich Dashutin, our colleague. Today's his birthday. Successes in lawmaking. Yes, the word has the national deputy of Nikolaynko. Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We believe that very serious events took place yesterday. And if you look very closely at them, I don't want to say that someone there today should celebrate the victory. On a large scale, we have made three absolutely necessary laws with you for Ukraine: both the Presidential Election Act and the election laws on a proportional basis to the local councils and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I believe that these are serious steps towards political reform, changes in the power system in Ukraine. And I am convinced that this Supreme Council will make the necessary changes, and here, the Socialists and Alexander Alexander Moroz will still stand, and we will applaud those political reforms. But in this regard, I would like to say in a further vein that, apart from what we are saying, there are still our constituents, and in this connection, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine today would like to say that we really need to look at all aspects of social life today, very realistically looking at what is happening today in health care above all. Our faction has been in all regions. And today we are deeply concerned about the health situation in the country. Every month the population of the State is reduced by more than 30,000. Social diseases, tuberculosis, AIDS, cardiovascular diseases, and so forth flourish in the country. Children suffer from poverty and malnutrition. In preparing the new budget, we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, must do everything to restore the nutrition of children in schools, vocational schools, and kindergartens at the expense of the State. There's our future. I would like to say that medical institutions and workers are suffering tremendously today. As a doctor can do today, the nurse works 2/3 of the minimum standard of living. How can people live? Even in Kiev, some 3,000 doctors are missing today. A particularly acute problem in the country. A change in benefits for rural doctors, teachers, leads to the fact that there will be no one there soon to treat or teach, or anything else. In view of this, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, consistently advocating for the protection of the social interests of citizens, is proposing in the 2005 draft budget, which will now begin with a change to the budget for this year. First. To allocate at least 8 percent of GDP to health care, by the way, as to education, and not as much as 3 today. Restoring community services to rural intelligence. The Ministry of Health should immediately develop and provide, through the budget, a list of free guaranteed medical services. We believe that health care is a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u9	Please, National Deputy Kravchenko. Prepare Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u10	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Today, the voices of the immoderate joy that took place yesterday appear to be a feat and so forth. I'm the only one who knows that yesterday's a regular event is a political struggle. And I'll tell you that the political reform that the communists have been trying and continuing this work have been talking about since 1999, I think. She said she was going to be there and everything would be in place. Dear colleagues! Despite the sharp political battalions, we today, on behalf of the faction, must declare today the two bills that tens of millions of people are concerned with today. The first decision of the Supreme Council, which I issued in number - 5113 of 31.03., concerns “the inclusion in the agenda of the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the report of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of road safety legislation by the Department of State Automobile Inspection”. It's an old subject, but respected colleagues! We must finally understand what this body is doing, which today is forcing the people to buy out the mass numbers that today have their own maintenance stations that provide them and from which they benefit, and is a budgetary organization. I would therefore like to request the bill, to put it to the vote and to consider it as a matter of priority. And a second equally important bill. Since the adoption of the Income Tax Act, individuals have had an unpleasant conflict among individuals who use the means of individual protection. Therefore, I passed a bill, together with the Gurenko People's Deputy, number 5295, amending the Income Tax Act. It is the case that the cost of individual protection is now included in the income of the population. Therefore, we must simply consider it as a matter of priority. And it's quite clear on the statements made by previous comrades here that they're heroes of Ukraine and so on. I want to tell you, Julia Vladimirovna, that you insulted me now as a national for allegedly taking part in a coup last night. I'll tell you, you don't have to treat yourself like the healthiest forces in Ukraine. I would therefore ask you to be correct in your statements to colleagues who did not vote in favour of criminalizing you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u11	The word has the national deputy, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, to prepare the Phydenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Lechchenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u14	Vladimir Leshchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigovishte, MP Zubr. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I inform you that at the end of March of this year, the 25th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia took place in Moscow. The delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine participated in its work as part of two members of the Interfractional Union for the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. I remind you that Zubr has a permanent observer status with this important allied body. Briefly on the state of construction of the Union of Belarus and Russia. The Alliance Agreement was signed by the Presidents of both States in April 1997 and the creation of the Allied State in December 1999. After this agreement was ratified by the parliaments of Belarus and Russia. In January 2000, he entered into force. Today, such allied bodies are in operation. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia, recently headed by the Head of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation Boris Grizzlow. Senior National Council of the Union of States, headed by Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko. In addition, the Council of Ministers and the Standing Committee of the Allied State function. The Joint Border and Customs Committee, the Security Committee, other bodies have also been created. Since 1997, a number of federal programmes have been being implemented in the Union of Belarus and Russia each year. The construction of the Allied State faces some opposition from the outside. The United States and its allies are inconvenient because they are consistently implementing their plans to establish political military and economic control over the post-Radians space, building up the internal major oligarchic structures. This has recently led to a so-called "gas attack" on the Republic of Belarus. But despite these factors, both Belarus and Russia are confidently on their way to speeding up the construction and strengthening of the Allied State. This was also discussed at the 25th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia. In general, eleven issues were discussed during the session, including the previous summary of the implementation of the 2003 federal state budget and the 2004 draft budget, the 2004 international activity plan. By the way, one point in this plan is to consult the Supreme Council of Ukraine on inter-parliamentary exchanges. It should be noted that the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia took place in a spirit of friendship, respect, and optimism. Our brothers are concerned about the political situation in the country, the expansion of NATO borders to the East, they want the people of Ukraine to overcome all the difficulties and build a strong and prosperous state, they want our country to join their alliance as soon as possible, and then there will be an alliance between the three independent Slovenian states of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. These are being worked on by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the 85-strong Zubr MPs. First of all, we need to synchronize the Single Economic Space Agreement, bilateral agreements on cooperation between nations, which I wish you all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u15	Simonenko has the word for Phydenko. At last, at last. I've already announced the speaker, Julia Volodymyrna. Well, after, after Come out now, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u16	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to the agenda today. And especially when I see the day-to-day issue of exports and imports of disks being put into order by the United States, it's confusing. Who do we have that Ukrainian, who has been pushing this question here before? And why did I leave? I would like to make some suggestions on today’s issues. Today, there is a tragedy in Iraq. And that's where our boys die, soldiers. Today we need to make urgent decisions on the return of our military contingent to Ukraine, and I urgently urge Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to consider project 4316-1, which we, the Communists of Ukraine, propose, by immediately considering this issue, to return our troops to Ukraine, thus saving their lives. And to those who speak very often and say that they are heroes of Ukraine, we had an honorary German and an honorary American! And those who today must repent to the people of Ukraine, who have lost several soldiers in Iraq, have just voted in favour of sending troops to Iraq, including representatives of our Ukraine. Another problem. I would like to draw attention to myself and ask: You can’t always put the most painful questions out of order. We, the Ukrainian Communists, have proposed a mechanism for the return of our citizens' savings, which is implemented in draft Law 4460 on the Ukrainian State Compensation Fund, which is aimed at a reliable and swift return of the undervalued, and more loyally stolen from our people the savings of the citizens at the time in the state institutions of the savings bank and the State. We also insist, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I don't understand why when we agreed on Monday that our project 3373, which envisions changes to the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices on a Moratorium on raising the price of bread products, is really already a disaster for the people of Ukraine, which is included in the review constantly, but it doesn't come to that because it actually stands at the end of the list of issues. That's why we, the Communists, insist: first of all today, consider urgent issues 4316-1 regarding the return of troops from Iraq, and consider the next question of the return of our military contingent from Sierra Leone. Because there is a disease and virtually everyone is already in danger of their lives without weapons. The second question is the return on savings and the consideration of Project 4460 on the Ukrainian State Compensation Fund. Today, we must consider the moratorium on the price of bread, the increase in the price of bread and bread in the draft law on prices and pricing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u17	Yes. The boy's a replica. Now, then you'll be performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, just from the mouth of one of the members of the Communist faction, the image of the block that I am leading is echoed. They said it was a disorderly political force and that I had to thank them for not voting for removing the inviolability Kuchma and Medvedchuk wanted from me. So I want to tell you that when you're doing a reform with Kuchma and Medvedchuk, you don't think they've committed crimes. And if you want to vote for removing my inviolability, I'm ready to do it, because I'm both in prison and in government and in Parliament, I'm going to do my honest work. And the prison won't stop me from doing that. So if you have a moral right to do this by negotiating with Kuchma and Medvedchuk, take away my integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u19	Carmazin in response to an unsatisfaction with the MP’s request Then Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u20	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Block of Our Ukraine. I have to ask again about the violation by the Government of Ukraine of the constitutional right of our fellow countrymen to adequate pension insurance, because my parliamentary request to take action to halt violations by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the constitutional rights of citizens to retire according to the current legislation considered by the government officials formally, if not to carry out a thorough analysis of the facts in it. In response to a request from the Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco, who did not understand the substance of the problem, it is assumed that the members of the government did not understand the purpose of the request, which is the need for the implementation of the current Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with article 43 of the Law on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance", the salary, income for calculating pensions, is determined by applying the average wage of employees employed in the Ukrainian economy in 2002. This rule of law is clear, has a clear interpretation and does not allow manipulation of the average monthly wage. Contrary to the stated requirements of the law, known even to schoolchildren of the concept of "medium arithmetic" and the officially established average monthly wage figures of employees employed in the field of the national economy in 2002, Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 1783, with the cynical title: "For measures to improve the pension insurance of citizens instead of the actual average salary for 2002 of 375 dollars 98 copies, this figure is set at 306 pounds 45 copies. Their decision to reduce the average monthly wage is justified by references to various instructions and by a non-existent method of determining the average wage of national workers for the purpose of the pension, in accordance with Ukraine’s law on compulsory state pension insurance, which, according to paragraph 3 of the Cabinet’s decree of 20 November 2003, was to be developed, approved and registered in Ministi before 1 January. However, no instructions or methods can give rise to a violation by the government of a law that protects the interests of all Ukrainians. In addition, all the necessary data in addition to the illegal government regulation are available to determine the average wage per year. So it's not clear why we need a new methodology, which instead of the arithmetic rule and the official statistics of the average monthly wage, will prove to the citizens of Ukraine that by dividing 4511 by 75 copies by 12 months, we will get not 375 dollars, but 306 dollars. On the basis of the above, I demand to apply the level of 375 dollars of 98 copies in accordance with article 43 of the Ukrainian law when recalculating the pension. I appeal to Mr. Yanukovic's response. Please understand the arithmetic, Mr. Yanukovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u21	Peter Cibenko, please, microphone. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! During the last two days, there have been fierce attempts to corrupt the position of the Communist faction and those forces in parliament who wanted to make power as transparent as possible before their people, the people of Ukraine, not the West, not the United States, not the United States Ambassador to Ukraine. The most ridiculous thing, however, is that this is done by the bulwarks of political power that Paul Johnovich Lazarenko led in his day. I think that the trial that is taking place in the United States today is not only a personal trial against Lazarus but all those who, along with him, have stolen Ukraine and deprived the people of Ukraine of its gains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u23	Let us now consider the issues in line with the schedule of meetings. First question. Information from the President of the National. What? Please, the microphone. Calm down, please, don't shout. Please, Simonenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u24	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! As I stepped out of the rostrum, I suggested today that we urgently consider a draft of the Supreme Council Order, which envisions the recall of our military contingent from Iraq. So again and again, I insist that, in conditions where the real life of our Ukrainian citizens is threatened by both the situation and developments in Iraq, we first and foremost demonstrate our citizenship, the political will, the understanding of what is going on in the world and, having considered, the decision to call back. I insist on an urgent procedure, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to consider this matter. And finally, those who have sent will be held responsible for the lives that have already been killed and our military wounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Calm down, please. I'm just asking you. Dear colleagues! Since repeated insistence, I will now put this issue to the vote in the agenda, and you determine. I'm voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda. [[This is draft regulation 4316-1.]] People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[10:55:21]] For-163 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 45, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communist factions - 59, Industrialists and entrepreneurs "Trudova Ukraine", faction - 1, SDPU (o) - 4, SPO - 19, Block Timoshenko - 19, "The People's Government" - 1, "Deminicatives" - 3, Agrarian Party - 1, "The People's Choice" - 1, NDP - 4, non-fractional - 3. First question. Information from the President of the National Television of Ukraine on the course of implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Order of Displacement of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4 Calls". The Rules are proposed: within 5 minutes for the report, 10 minutes for the answer to the question, for the co-report, 5 minutes and then for the 10 minutes question, and for the answers, for the 15 minutes discussion of the decision-making process. Is there no objection? Just 45 minutes. Yes, please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The National Television of Ukraine, in its work, is continuously governed by the requirements of current legislation relating to the information sphere and implements the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Disclosure of Public Authorities and Local Self-Governmental Authorities in the Media. As you know, the Supreme Council's Order "On the Order of Enlightenment of Work of the 5th Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4 Calls" was adopted on February 3, this year, although, if I don't remember, you started working on January 16th, without waiting for this decision, the National Television Company, according to that tradition that has already been established, we demonstrated, broadcast the opening of the session. According to the practice and commission of the Supreme Council, we broadcast all the days of the government that took place in Parliament and all the parliamentary hearings. The topic of highlighting the activities of the higher legislative body of Ukraine has been widely reflected in a number of our programs, such as information programs such as News, News Weeks, The Dark of the Day, the Daily Information and Analyst Program, the Fourth Authority, the Border, the National Interest, the Large Account, the Rural Time, the Crosses and the Council. The program "The Council" is a forty-five-minute program that comes out on Saturdays, and there are only ten of these programs that are now being prepared for the eleventh. I want to say that during this time and from January 1 to April 7, we had ten programs that included 252 national deputies. On the average, well, I have statistics here about every program, on the average from 10 to 14 factions speaking in these programs. The largest number of national deputies took part in the program, the plots and the audience were in the National Interest program, which is 40 people's advocates. I remember the last time I was standing in this rostrum and reporting to you, the national deputy Droguntsz said that he had forgotten about when he was participating in our programs. Recently, National Deputy Drogunzov stood up for his point of view in the National Interest program. And millions of viewers could be sure of his position. In "The Darkness of the Day" there were 81 people's deputies. "The Between" is 13, "The Fourth Power" is seven, "The Great Count" is 15, "The Only One" is 16, "The Force Time" is seven, "The Cross" is eleven. All the information and analysis programs have published 131 stories or videos, and 15 stories have been published in the news and analysis program "The News of the Week with Mikola Kaniewski." In either the reporting period or the first January or the 16th, we're going to talk about it, it's been published in these 256 synchronous information and analysis broadcasts, i.e. interviews, interviews with Ukrainian national MPs. In summary, 598 national deputies took part in the interview and the News during the reporting period. Well, these figures already show that there is probably no such channel in Ukraine that has a national distribution that would be so wide-ranging to the work of Parliament. I want to thank Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka for making a parliamentary request for his time to the House of Accounts. Since the end of December, we had an accounting office, and on April 7, we had a meeting with the College of Accounts. Well, he's been through a lot of commissions at his age, checks, but you know, for the first time, for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u27	So, how much more time do you need, Alexander Mikolayovich, have you finished? Let's give it a shot, shall we? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u28	But for the first time in ten years, when we talked about these problems, it's all officially on paper by representatives of a foreign organization. The thing is, the colleagues in the accounting room didn't just formally approach the case, and they counted how much money went there, here, enough, not enough, the efficiency of using the budget. They came systemically, systematically to this test. And let's say I can't, this isn't the first time I've talked about it from this rostrum. For example, there is a complete imbalance in laws that relate to the activities of the National Television Company and to the placement of a government order. Think about that figure. For example, last year a government order was brought to the National Television Company of Ukraine only on June 2, 2003. Today we have April 9th. To date, the government’s demand for speaking volumes has not been proven by the extent of funding. This is not because the National Television and Radio Council, which is bound to do so according to the laws, or by the State Committee on Television and Radio. The point is that there is no prescribed mechanism for placing a government order. There is no method of molding for today. What there is no sin of secrecy, even today, is there, let's say, a clear system of reporting according to the parameters that we should report to the Supreme Council and to the President of Ukraine, who by law are the founders of the National Television Company. I understand that we may not have received this document yet, and we have not received it officially, and the Supreme Council has not received it. I would very much like to ask you, honourable nationals, to help the National Television to carry out its functions properly by means of one — a clear definition of the legislative standards that the National Television could work under. Because, let's say, we're constantly getting into the lens, and with the steady decline in budget funding, we still have a constant amount of speech. And it's clear to everyone, let's say, a ton of metal. That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u29	Let's get to the questions. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'll have the first question before you sign up. Alexander Mikolaiovich, would you please tell me, and the other branches of authority that you have concluded agreements with to explain their activities?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u30	You know, now that we've prepared, we've now prepared drafts of such agreements with all branches of government. And more than that, let's say we're now making deals with ministries and departments, because we're very often faced with an assignment that's not financially strengthened. So today, I want to tell you that we have already made a deal with the Ukrainian State Agency on the lighting of the Olympic Games, the opening of the two championships that will be held in Ukraine for the first time in history: this is the European Championship of Heavy Athletics, which begins on April 20, and the European Championship of Art Gymnastics. This exam will be for us because we have never shown up for Europe. Today we're also working on the option of making a deal, well, we don't really know how this is going to work, or not to show for the first time in the history of the Paralympic Games. But we are faced with such a problem. Well, let's say Easter. Ukraine’s national television company spends about 420 - 450,000 dollars a year broadcasting services. This money is not predictable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u31	Alexander Mikolaiovich, well, thank you. We're not talking about Easter right now. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I'm another question. Yes, I will. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please tell me. He visits the parliamentary delegation, visits parliament, receives the President of Ukraine, receives the Prime Minister of Ukraine. An information message of this content, yes, somewhat simplistically, I will say, "The speaker has come, he has met with the President, the Prime Minister, and he has discussed the problems of cooperation between the states. And then he went and he remembered on the way that there was a parliament here, and he went into parliament." That's the first part of the question. Part two of Parliament. We accept the head of the government. He accepts the President, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and is admitted to the Supreme Council - Head of the Supreme Council for the participation of the People’s Deputies. The information message comes in the summary of the week. The president met, the Prime Minister met, the Supreme Council zero. Would you please say, from an objective point of view, from a moral point of view, from a political point of view, how can this be assessed? Is it editorial policy, or is it political censorship?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I understand the essence of it, I read your words that have been published in a number of newspapers, and I want to say, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that surely your apparatus is not exactly correct in informing you about it. So when the Prime Minister of Turkey arrived, he met with the President, he met with Prime Minister and Vladimir Mikhailovich. It was Friday. We showed it on Friday. I have, let's say, after I'm done speaking, now I'm going to give you an extract from the microphone folder that says there. [[Yeah, it's a little short, but that's what I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u33	That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u34	It's about whether or not they showed the meeting-- the meeting of Vladimir Mikhailovich from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u35	I, my esteemed colleagues, take down the question. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I beg you not to pedal Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's about Parliament, it's about the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, I'm not offended, I'm not distracted, I'm just talking about objectivity. And I'm asking you not to pedal Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u36	I don't pedal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u37	I'm just asking you to stop pedaling! I'm just saying, how do I know if we're objective when they show that the meeting was with the President, with the Prime Minister, why does the Supreme Council come out? That's what this is about, not Vladimir Mikhailovich. And don't move the arrows, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u38	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that when on Friday, when this meeting took place, we talked about it. We talked about the meeting of the Turkish Prime Minister with all representatives of the authorities. What happened on Sunday, since the prime minister, we paid more attention to the meeting of the prime minister of another country with our prime minister. On Friday, though, we provided information about this. There's something else I can do for you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u39	Please, Basil Nadela, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u40	For example, the number of interviews, quotations, mentions of individual deputies during this time, says Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin: the number of synchronics - 40, the number of quotations, the number of references in the studio, under the video - 45. 85 times the speaker of Parliament was represented in 3.5 months. What does this indicate? The lack of attention to the work of Parliament, its leader
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u41	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u42	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u43	Thank you. Alexander Nikolajevic, we are speaking today, is considering the status of implementation of the ruling. We're talking about what's done. I'd like to hear your opinion. What's not done? What more needs to be done to ensure that the order is implemented in the extent to which it is adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u44	Thank you. This is a very relevant and painful question for us. Today, as I said, we're actually working like a fog. We don't have a proven volume of speech or financial indicators, we know these figures because we have data from the Ministry of Finance. But in fact, there is no clear schedule for the coming of funds. Again, there is no mechanism for today’s public procurement day. It's not normal. And that's not the first time I've talked about it. We need to get rid of the differences that are in the laws. Do you understand? One law states that a government order should be placed by the National Television and Radio Council of Ukraine. Another law states that this function can be performed only by the authority of the executive branch. And the National Council is not that kind of body. For example, in addition to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Council is not even mentioned. How, then, can it place a government order if it does not have such functions in the laws? I'm proposing to create a working group that's going to just take all the readings off and define clear norms and rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u45	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, please. I'd like to ask you short questions, short answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u46	Alexandre Mikolaiovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dniproperty. I've listened very carefully to you last time, and even now you feel that your speech is somehow very different from what you said because you have to tell me about what you did in the criticism you made last time. But every time you face other problems, I'd like to ask you, you're now very much in trouble about the government order: there's no mechanism, there's no methodology, and so on. In addition to asking this question on the Supreme Council, did you take a note and write a draft of this mechanism in order to, well, how do you motivate this problem in order to initiate it, in order to start rolling, or just to ask a question orally and not accept anything else about it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u47	Thank you, thank you. Well, you do realize that we don't sit around with our hands closed. We work very closely with the Ministry of Economics and with the Ministry of Finance and with the Ministry of Justice, but, you know, we are still exposed to the same problems, because one refers to the same law and the other refers to another law. What if, for example, the National Television actually receives between 25 and 30 percent of its funding today. The volume of speech remains constant, and we are simply in a catastrophe. See what's happening, it's falling steadily, less than last year's national television company has never received $18 and a half million. We just need 19 million to maintain the studio complex to make it work. In fact, the money that comes from the budget is only enough for "News" is 15 million dollars a year and for "Evening Tale." What's more, let's say, of these 18 million, 12 and a half million is the Wage Fund, 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u48	Bronnnikov Vladimir Kostaninovich, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u49	You understand what's going on, it turns out that the state's reducing funding budgets doesn't reduce the volume of speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u50	Alexandre Mikolaiovich. Alexander Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u51	It turns out that they're bringing in tons of metal, everyone understands what a ton of metal can be made of.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u52	Yes. Thank you! Thank you! Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, the Bronnikov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u53	Alexander Nikolayevich, be kind enough to answer the question more briefly and on the merits and also on my own. In Ukraine, there are coals where there is no radio-rail system. These include the city of Energodar, the energy capital, where people want to have the right to look at detailed information, including the meetings of the Supreme Council, to draw up their views, not what you provide. Is there anything you're planning on doing to get Ukraine all over the information network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u54	Thank you. This is an urgent and urgent matter. Although we believe that 93 percent of the population of Ukraine is covered by our signal. But tell you exactly what it is, I can't tell you. Because I can't control 100 percent of the turned-on transmitter in a city or it only works 30 percent. The RTD concert system is hopelessly outdated both morally and physically. You know, in Ukraine, five towers in major industrial cities, they're in an emergency. And of course you have to do it. But with the funding that is being made today, it's actually very difficult to do that. First. It's different. This function is not for the National Television Company, but for the State Liaison and Information Committee, which is involved in the deployment of this signal. And I want to say one more thing, according to the Television and Radio Act, all the money that was made had to be focused on the social development of the collective and the development of the network what you're talking about. Over the past five years, the National Television Company has been underfunded by 68 million. So if these 68 million were funded, then the National Television would be able to put broadcasters where they're missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u55	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u56	I ask you to pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u57	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u58	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenk's faction "Our Ukraine". Alexander Mikolaiovich, you could really be a journalist a little bit more concise in your answers. And in answer to these questions in general, to the first question of Vladimir Mikhailovich, you would have to say that after yesterday that the television company, as president, you will no longer be working in the dungeons of Medvedchuk. And my specific question. How did you get to the state that the person behind whom Vladimir Kmetika's crime scene, who stole the lion's television, you took the first deputy and entrusted him with the broadcast, it seems, "National Interest" or what? This is the face of the National Television Company. And that's what the Mayor is talking about in the presence of your first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u59	Thank you. I know your great love for Vladimir Kmetika. I think that's your personal opinion. If you have specific facts that indicate that he's behind the crime scene, this is the first time I've heard of it. I don't have to bring it if you have such facts, you have to pass them on to the appropriate authorities, if that's not a voice statement. If one of the national MPs who took part in the National Interest programme, if those issues that are being violated in this program, you think are irrelevant, if they are not aimed at the interests of Ukraine and our people, then all I have to do is think about what is your personal opinion that is absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u60	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Time's up. Mikola Tomenko, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u61	Mikola Tomenko, head of the Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear radio listeners, distinguished colleagues. I have recently had the impression that for those who are engaged in information policy executives, and especially for the National Television, they need to adopt one law, which will be made up of two sentences, because when they always come here, they lack a legislative basis for telling the truth and objectively showing what is going on in Parliament. This law will consist of two phrases. The first sentence will sound: It's embarrassing to lie. And the second phrase is, "stolen stealing." I have every reason to say that today we have heard a frank lie about non-execution of the Decree on Enlightenment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For the first time in the history of Parliamentarianism, the head of the National Television did not reply by letter even to why he did not comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine? After we voted on it, the directorate of the radio programme sent a letter twice, and it's been months, two months -- there's no answer, even why the decision isn't being implemented. I remind you that we voted by more than a constitutional majority to have two live programs during the session. And at the request of the National Television Company, we took the time, the technology, how it's done. Just two live programs where there would be discussions about what's going on in Parliament. And according to our 15 - minute program, we also cut it down twice. They don't just do it, they just don't answer it. We're told that the Supreme Council is a structure that we spit on highly because we are led by a specific person in the Presidential Administration. She gave us the task, and we'll do it. Today, the National Television is a commercial structure that uses government funds to solve specific political and financial problems. Today, we don't have an advertising income figure. There are different numbers, ranging from five million to 12 million. No one can give us an exact figure as much as the commercial here. So today, we have figures that, despite the fact that we've increased budget funding substantially, and this is a lie that it's decreased, budget funding this year is 45 million. That's right. So from this budget funding, the number of self-production programs has dropped significantly this year, of course, because the channel is doing commercial work. The channel is the biggest violator including the commercial channels of the Advertising Act. Commercial channels carry out more of the Advertising Act than the National Channel! The drug advertisement is totally illegal, using doctors ’ images. Today we're opening several criminal cases against illegal drug commercials where people have complained to us that they've been sold some shit for a lot of money after a TV commercial. Today, direct advertising of alcohol at the National Television Company, while commercial television companies are afraid of failing to do so. What our position is. Oh, it's political. These figures, frankly, are getting tired of calling them how many deputies are present at the National Television Company. Today, only Turkmenistan in the former Soviet Union has a propaganda machine like us in Ukraine, the National Television Company. In March, we have 96 percent of the news in the news -- that's one point of view, 96 percent. Dynamics in two years: between 80 and 96 percent. In Turkmenistan, 99. Iran or Iraq had 100 percent. In Ukraine, 96. Well, how many deputies are there to talk about? These deputies were recorded on the list of Medvedchuk and Vasiliev. They got invited, they didn't talk on the air. They were cut, cleaned, and served. And they brought us, and they said, "You're there." I think the Supreme Council should get the courage to do just one thing. There was a 1996 Supreme Council decree, signed by Alexander Moroz, when Alexander Savenka, then president of the National Television Company, discussed the issue of his activities and made decisions, voted: to release him from office for the harm of national interests and for the embezzlement of the State Budget." In 1996. I've got C.R.I. materials, like 16 million dollars in securities were stolen. So we need to listen to the commission of inquiry here, make a decision, and not hear about the numbers, but allow the prosecution to make a decision. And we can ban all advertising on the National Television Company, totally ban it because we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u62	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u63	So I'm saying again. We have to make a decision on the second reading of the Television and Radio Act on the total prohibition of commercial advertising on state television, on financing exclusively for government-specific programs, with specific control, to create a Supervisory Board, which is not being convened today by the President's Administration, with the participation of public experts of the Supreme Council, and to return what the whole country has been working on national television to the direction of constructive information on culture, education, sport and true information about what is happening in the country and in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u64	Yes, questions, please. Sign up for questions, dear colleagues. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u65	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I have a question like that before Mikaly Tomenka. Well, as you might think, or could it have been otherwise, if President Kuchmi needed another person, he wouldn't have insisted on leading the committee, say, Savenko. I think it's so transparent and clear that it's not really about how to force him to do what this structure was for. We just have to change really people who lead it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u66	I'm just a fragment. I think there are a few basic things. First, we have experience working with the previous presidents of the National Television Company, who were also people of Kuchma, but who had, excuse me, even though they had an element of their own dignity and conscience, and although they were partially, but they were live programs, they were "Our diary" and they were giving us information about what was going on there. We have the first president of the National Television Company, who doesn't respond at all to the letter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know what to do. If a citizen isn't answered within 30 days, you're going to court. And here the Supreme Council is not responding to an official. So I say again, we should consider the information of the commission of inquiry in May and act quite adequately. I understand the mood of either the president or the bear. I mean, we're a special country, we're doing Medvedchuk's work last year, we're done, we're failing, and now we're working on all the assistants, counselors and family of Medvedchuk at the National Television Company, they're all working there. So we have to stop, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u67	Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u68	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please give the floor to Deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u69	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u70	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenk's faction "Our Ukraine". Mr. Mikolo, I've been asking Mr. Savenka questions, but there's not enough time for me to expand it. I will be sure to give both to Mr. Savenka and to the committee an act of audit of the Auditorium, when, at the time of his tenure as Director-General of the Lviv Broadcasting Company, Vladimir Knetika, the television company's budget in two years was stolen from the equivalent of more than $70,000. So if you say that there are grounds for the discovery of a criminal case, as it were, of the abuse of the National Broadcasting Company, plus the lion's gains of today's First Deputy Savenka, let's put these things together and keep the order in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u71	I'm just going to say that, of course, $70,000 is a large sum, you know, of course, all over the world and for $100, but you don't have another document. This is an act of the Chief Auditorium, which has been on the commission of inquiry since 2000, where the head of the Derteradio Savenko and the deputy head of the comets, who you're talking about, who have released 16 million bills and all of these bills have been cancelled as being issued in violation of legislation. And, of course, the powerful, influential people who are in our country of the CRU Act of 2000 did not lead to an investigation. I think the Supreme Council will have the courage to have this $70,000 and $16 million proved, and to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u72	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u73	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Do you think there is a need to create an aesthetic council on television, particularly on UT-1, because there are a lot of observations about the aesthetic dimension of television on the First National Channel? It is a low - risk music test, followed by a speech by our colleague, MP Mikhail Floodsky, whose quality is highly questionable. But I don't want to talk about quality, but I want to say that there's a lot of plagiarism out there from famous music. And the second question. Please tell me, on a quantitative scale, which political parties in the last month were the most frequent performers on the First National Channel? Do you have such information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u74	There's data like this, it's long statistics. I think yesterday was a showcase, and you all saw, in the summary news release, what happened in the session hall, where Leonid Krawczuk and Nestor Schufrich, the dictionaries of the Supreme Council and Medvedczuk informed at the same time what the story had ended, and then, it became clear that we had another famous lawyer, Sergey Osika, I honestly never knew that he was a great lawyer, so he explained how stupid MPs, dumb and deaf MPs had not heard, the day had not heard what was being discussed, and finally voted absolutely wrong. So I guess yesterday's showtime. Ready to give the numbers every day. Once again, Ukraine is the only one of the former Soviet Union after Turkmenistan, where 96 percent of information in the news belongs to one political power, one point of view. What other figures have been given?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u75	Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u76	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I want to confirm, Your Honor, your statement that Savannah is lying here. And I'm asking him to show on TV a fragment of my speech if he's claiming some truth. He said there were all the parliamentary hearings on TV. There were parliamentary hearings on spiritual matters. And these hearings spoke of the condition of spirituality in Ukraine, such as that of Medvedchuk, Kuchma, the spiritless Ukraine, and so on. But living in the dungeons of Medvedchuk, this was not shown on television. So if Savannah is standing here, looking me in the eye and lying, what she wasn't saying was, I have an offer, there's an offer that all those jailers who come into television, they go to your committee or to the Supreme Council. And then we would see that it's impossible to show Parliament that it's impossible to show the Head of the Supreme Council, even though Litwin was talking about something else here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u77	I understand it's a line and a play. I'm sorry, Sergio Shevchuk. I'll tell you one thing. Of course, there's a supervisory board today, it's made up of Kabmin's employees and the President's Administration, it's only met once. So my position is as follows: The Supervisory Board, in order to influence software policy, and there is an element of course, and the taste of elementary, aesthetic and content must be created at the appropriate level, and I am convinced of the Supreme Council, including. But let's say a third is the Supreme Council, a third is the President. And a third of them are experts in cinematographers to make sure they're not officials sitting in the Apparatus and for money. So I have materials that tell us that there is no money. We've got it. are made, agreements are concluded with a commercial television company, and a commercial television company pays 10 bracelets to the National Television Company for six months. And he goes out there, he makes a living in commercials. Thus, there must be a Supervisory Board that would control the financial situation and that would adjust meaningful policy in a way that is national Ukrainian television for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u78	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u79	Dear Nikolai Vladimirovich. Here, the previous speaker, the head of NTCU, spoke of a mass of organizational, legislative issues to date that would not be too difficult to agree on. This is the idea of establishing a joint working group to address these legislative, organizational issues. Your opinion as the head of the sectional committee, and I think that would be nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u80	It's a good idea, of course, but it has nothing to do with the Supreme Council. You know we don't finance, we're not the Ministry of Economics, we're not the Ministry of Finance, we're not even the Public Prosecutor's Office. We've made an announcement. Like Treasury. And we've decided on 45 million dollars, we've decided to limit the revenue from advertising. We've given everyone the opportunity to work, the National Television Company. If the Ministry of Economics or the Ministry of Finance isn't paying, what are we paying for? We can talk to them, and we can press the government and make them finance them. If there are any proposals under legislation, the previous president of the National Television Company, Igor Storobuk, made these proposals, and we voted on this session hall in six months. I don't see any legislative proposals. Therefore, it seems to me that it is, as they say, fashionable to say, such an easy vendetta to translate from a sick person’s head into a healthy one, and to make the Supreme Council extreme to what it has nothing to do with.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u81	Yuri Solomatin, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u82	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Please tell me, do you think it is inappropriate to create a single parliamentary channel, to make appropriate TV broadcasts here for the quotas to be worked out, for example, as it is in relation to the Voice of Ukraine? Every faction, every committee will have a certain time, will. Perhaps even prepare for your own abilities and your own stories and present them, and no one should change them. And what should we do to make sure that this approach is somehow combined with the ability to perform, to use those powers of the National Television to broadcast this signal? So we're preparing the stories ourselves, and we're only doing the power to broadcast the story. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u83	Aah! Well, we're doing it today and now. Our parliamentary channel has been broadcasting us on the cable network of Kiev live for the last time. We're working now to be broadcast on cable networks of other cities that are at least district. Today, you know, we've restored the speech to Radio Rox, where there's a direct broadcast in the FM-range. And I agree that we need to build a parliamentary channel so that the maximum number of people can hear the different positions and positions of all factions, but we have a state channel that is legally bound to follow the Supreme Council's Enlightenment Order. And this has to be done separately, and the thing about the National Television company has to be done in the same way separately and in parallel, and of course use the power of the National Television Company, so the whole country created it, the whole of Ukraine invested in this complex on Melnikov, so of course it needs to be used for people. Thank you. And once again, I ask you to support the decree prepared by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances. Artemenko. On the board is the name of the national MPs, please give us what they sign up for. Yuri Artemenko, get ready. Instead of Kirilenko Bespali, he will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to say one good word here about Alexander Savenck, that he is certainly a talented anti-crisis manager and probably because he says he has a flight corridor. I mean, neither there nor here, and that's why he can't today and he won't say. And the truth is, what's happening on the channel is just terrible. I'm representing a commission of inquiry, and of course we're ready to report, if a decision is made, on May of what's going on on on the First National Channel. We've made several inquiries to the Attorney General's Office, the Court of Auditors, the KRU, frankly, received a positive or, let's say, extended detailed report only from the Court of Auditors, and this is a testimony that the body created by the Supreme Council can work the most objectively, but already these figures, which they are, I'll say, testify again to the terrible situation that is taking place on the First National Channel. Well, let's say that the number of copyright programs is decreasing. The Advertising Act is not being implemented. Here, Mikola Tomenko said that UT-1 was the worst compared to commercial channels. You can see now because of the committee's position -- the law that we passed on advertising that offered to reduce alcohol advertising during the day, it didn't work. But now because of the pressure, because of the active position of the State Protection, commercial channels have almost completely renounced the advertising of alcohol during the day, and the First National In spite of that continues to do so. Next. I'm going to draw a few conclusions from this House of Accounts, literally almost lined up. The existing funding system does not ensure the rational use of budget funds. The public procurement mechanism is formal. The television company itself does not take any practical steps to remedy the shortcomings and violations identified. On the channel, I'm going to give you a figure to understand that there are about 2,000 people working on the channel right now, and that's because the number of copyright programs is decreasing. And at the same time, on the same channel ISTV and the STB that makes quality product, 200 people work -- 10 times less. I can count many more of these facts, but I say again, if the Supreme Council puts it to a vote. The Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Here Mikola Tomenko spoke of 96 percent of the position being expressed. I'll give you another number -- 41 percent of this reference to unknown sources -- is the practice of the First National Channel. And last of all, there's no time to say. I'm just going to Alexander Savenka -- you don't have to hide by law, you have two laws: the first law is to follow the law of Ukraine, and the second law is to serve the interests of the audience. And that's probably the first law for a journalist. If you want the Supreme Council to help you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u86	Boris Bespali. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u87	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." We've heard the story of the gray bull again, sorry about the lack of money. Indeed, Ukraine is not the richest country. But, dear friends, there are issues related to funding that are unrelated. There's enough money for something. But here's to other things, and usually, Mr. Savenk's worth of money is chronically lacking. For example, only a positive explanation of the President’s activities is sufficient to highlight the work of the Supreme Council of Money. To carry out the dungeons of Medvedchuk, his trustees, his surroundings, his families of money, and to represent normally those political forces that have much more political support and victory in elections, of course, are not enough. What's more, there's enough money on the floor when they show the leaders of the opposition who seem to be shoving their lips, and the cadre voice of another bear puts some nonsense in their mouths. I think it's by no chance that the Dark Ones who come from the Administration, the word is not random, the good work of the Dark Ones will not be called, and the activities of the National Television Company -- it's a systematic blackout, not enlightenment, it's a darkening of information in Ukraine. And in this way, Mr. Savenka has managed to make the National Channel of Ukraine almost unnational. Its low rating is not only from experts but also from viewers. Well, what else does she do besides this distorted agitation to run the channel, she's still in business. Of course, in the service of Kuchma, Medvedczuk, and business, there is not enough time or money for quality transfers for children or for culture or for art programs or for high - quality films. Well, of course it's not for them. What, then, can be our respected colleagues, our reaction to this situation? First of all, we need to give our own principle an assessment of this kind of activity and go back to what our predecessors gave 10 years ago, and ask questions about the liberation of today's leadership of the National Channel. This is the first one. Secondly, to speed up the adoption of the law on social, not state television, which would work with the supervisory board in the interests of the viewers of Ukraine, not just a narrow clan like that. Without addressing these issues, I think that the national radio space will remain under the patronage of such woeful leaders as it is difficult to work with even their journalists, with whom we deeply respect and feel deeply for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u88	The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials, respected citizens of Ukraine! Perhaps we should all be ashamed that the National Radio Company, the TV company, and that two thousand people somehow cannot make the channel better than 200 people on the New Channel, on the ICTV, or on other channels. The reasons, and what is being considered today is the information given by the President of the National Television about non-performance, about the course of implementation, and I'd rather say, the course of failure to implement the Supreme Council's Order on how to explain the work of the fifth session. I want to ask you: what prevented Mr. Savenka from saying today that the Session Log, which is to go 15 minutes in the execution of the Supreme Council's Radio Programmes, should I stress that the Diary should be installed? What made it difficult to find 45 minutes for once a week to show a summary program: The law was discussed and adopted. But nothing bothered me. Absolutely nothing. To do that, what does it take 18 million that you're talking about? You've got 45 budget allocations. And I don't think we should have put them out, because it's clear that they're probably not going to. I'd like to ask Mr. Savenk what branch of authority is the President's Administration and Oxan Marchenko? What branch of authority is this? You give them more than you give to the Chief of the Supreme Council and the entire Supreme Council together. I am. It's not about Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, it's not about Adam Ivanovich or Mr. Zinchenko, it's about the Ukrainian Parliament. And that's why we have to make it clear: 1. The decision has not been executed, censorship has been imposed, and no conclusions have been drawn from what was before. What do I mean? I have before me the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 13, 1996. I'm reading. Item 3. Expressing distrust to the Head of the State Television Committee and the radio talk of Kulik and the president of the National Broadcasting Company, Savenka, as such that their actions have caused considerable damage to the national interests and the National Budget of Ukraine. This ruling has not been overturned. And after that, we are hearing a report today about the implementation of the new decree of the same Savenka. Mr. Savenko, find the courage to fix it by the end of the week. Secondly, apologize to the Supreme Council, which in general adopted that decree. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u90	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The bushes are getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, when I was listening to a report by the President of the National Television Company on the job of a journalist, I somehow thought that it wasn't my fellow journalist, and this is some bureaucrat who's running numbers, who's putting out some claim to legislation and so on, and I did, you know, you know, scary. It's not because I don't understand the problems facing the company there financial security and other issues, economic issues. And it's scary because a person stands up and doesn't understand what they want from him. For example, I don't care how long the daily 15 or 10 minutes goes. I don't care how many 45 or 95 times someone will be mentioned. It's, you know, it's math, it's statistics that nobody needs. I care about one thing. Here we're talking about how the work of the Supreme Council is being explained. And the very word "lighted" should be a reflection of not the one who said it, but what the Supreme Council does. And talking about financial security or non-insurance is even funny. Because it all depends on whether you put yourself in this soul or whether you put yourself in this, sorry, what replaces the soul, this ice of the mind, this hunger of the soul. Tell me, who, by the law, was provided with a scrap of the newspaper, when Alexy Ajubei came to see her as editor, when a newspaper with a 200-thousand edition of the newspaper broke down to 11 million. This was provided by publications such as these. I blew up my own mine, which I remember 42 years later, because nothing more terrifying, and nothing as impressive then as Soviet journalists knew or said. Who today prevents Mr. Savenka from providing material on the work of the Supreme Council that would undermine public opinion? That special committee of Valentina Seminouk can give a lot of this material to privatize. And you say you don't. And then, you know, there's a lot to talk about, but I'll say one last thing. I don't want us to make a decision about the liberation of Alexander Savenk, there's political censorship, and everything that's said here is there. If he has honor and dignity, he must leave there alone, realizing that he is not in his place. I won't say anything else, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u92	Yes, the gmira, Sergey the gmira, the faction of the communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Well, it has been said that democracy on our television, in particular not the First Channel, is being violated as it is on other channels. I just went to Aleksandro Nikolaevich Savenko and said that, strangely enough, but national interest over how they cut, let's say, "Double proof," might still be a model of democracy. But that's not even what I'm talking about. It is clear to everyone that what is happening on all our channels is the full monopoly of President Kuchma's power. Today, many representatives of “Our Ukraine” spoke indignantly. Why are you so upset? Yesterday you left unlimited powers for the President - and the result will be the full monopoly of Kuchma on power and complete lack of democracy on air. You won a democracy on air yesterday, which I congratulate you on. That's the first one. And the second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to talk to everyone. I'd like to address Mr. Savenko with such a not-so-ordinary request. We often talk about how badly the Supreme Council is shown on air. So here, Alexander Nikolaevich, I ask you to give true information about today's decisions of the Supreme Council, the criminal decision that was taken when the Supreme Council voted today in favour of the Iraq War. Most kuchmow plus representatives, most of them 56 “Our Ukraine” did not support the question of withdrawing our Iraqi guys. And after that, you're saying that Victor Andreevich, I don't know, is Victor Leonidovich not the son of President Kuchma? Stop talking about it! On the hands of those people, they spoke of pure hands, a lie. In the hands of those who voted today for the war in Iraq, blood. And I want to say one more thing. There was a lot of talk going on here yesterday about who Judas was. I'm not going to talk about the biggest faction in the Supreme Council that they look like Judah. And only under three circumstances. First, Judah was taking money for the century, not in dollars. Second, Judas took the money once, not repeatedly. Finally, the third, after his act of treachery, Judas went and hung himself quietly, not trying to break into the messiah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u94	Yes, dear fellows! Let's finish the question. Now we're going to decide what to do. Ivan Sergiyovich Zhizh asks a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There are a few fundamental points that I'd like to focus on, because they came out of the discussion, from the head's report, from the President of the National Television. First of all, the issue of direct air has existed in the Supreme Council since the Supreme Council existed. I remember 1994 and 1996 and so on. What should I do, in my opinion? And we met with Alexander Alexiyovich and Mikola Volodymyrovich, let's solve the issue of the legislature once and for all. We don't have to have a theme at all. Someone wants to know if they don't want to. There's a law, it's turned on and broadcast when it's done. prescribed. There's a conflict. I've been talking about this colony, so let's solve it. And it is that two entities are set up to place orders that still have no mechanisms. Same National Council. So the problem with these 30-minute programs is the legislative problem in this case. That's the first one. The other one. There's a few emphasis on the fact that the abuse seems to be in the National Television Company and so forth, as soon as the House of Accounts ended up looking at the problem there. If there is any evidence that ten bracelets are paid in six months, there is a State Committee on Television and Radio Communication, please pass it on to us. But it is my responsibility to say that the audit of the Court of Auditors was very objective, and this type of abuse has not, fortunately, been detected. I don't think they should be in principle. Finally, another fundamental moment. Obviously we're going to report in June, because there's a day-to-day report on lighting, and there's going to be a National Radio Company and so on. Of all the decrees, only part of the direct television broadcast is not executed if you take it in form. But there is a redefinition in part of what we can do, the same joy and so forth. And I would like to ask, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that, let's say, the communication with the National Television was not about the program director, but about the status of the head of the apparatus. Because he has the authority to do so and so on. There is also the problem that we have not solved these coalitions. And in general, we're ready to light up and work, of course. Because it's a principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of the matter. I think there is a problem of legislation, there is a problem of conscience, and there is a problem of responsibility, and the reality is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by a final decision of February 3, 2004, took into account most of the company's proposals, detailed the scope of the programmes and the sources of funding for their creation. However, the leadership of the First National consciously ignores Parliament’s national decision. And let's be clear about that. You respectable colleagues seem to remember the campaign that was launched by the NTCU leadership campaign with the discreditation of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as if for political pressure on my part. Then let us be consistent and honest to the end. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I am doing the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have acted and operated within the framework of the well-known Act on the Enlightenment of State Authorities and the decree we have passed, no more. In doing so, they made clear their relationship on the basis of contractual principles. As a result, their rights to publicize Parliament’s activities were clearly regulated in an appropriate agreement. I want to ask the question: who of the higher government agencies is promoting their activities on the First National Television on the basis of a bilateral agreement? Who, Ivan Sergiyovich? The Minister's office without a document like that, can't it wait for the air? But there's one Folliant that you trust unconditionally: the dungeon. If you already appreciate the imaginative level of language of the First National Television, the confirmation of spirituality, moral values, for example, given the sign events, such as the recent celebration of the 190th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birthday. I don't remember whether in Soviet times and in the last 10 years, the celebration of the Grand Cobzar's Jubilee Date was denied direct television broadcast "UT-1". For Ukraine, Shevchenko is one for all time. He's one of the many candidates for national television to lead NTTU. I don't know, Mr. President, if you're getting letters from indignant citizens about this, and I get a lot of them, these letters. Yes, Alexander Mikolaiovich, and you are not entrusted with self - examination: What is important to the Ukrainian people and what is temporary and transient to them? Without a hint, without a soufflé, can't you make your own decision? Do you not realize that you are being humiliated by such foolish directives? It would be perfectly logical, Your Honorary colleagues, and I appeal to your conscience: to go back to reviewing the bills for extending the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the appointment of heads of the National Television and Radio Company and to return to the next commission. There is no need to hide for a few minutes that one person or another has been shown there. Let's respect each other. And if you see prejudice in my words, take a pencil and count what you are showing and who you are showing, and you will understand. I think if the Supreme Council doesn't respect itself, we'll never be respected. I'm putting to the vote, please note, the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 5368 "About information from the President of the National Television Company of Ukraine." Please vote. [[12:01:58]] For 299 Decision taken. Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. A draft Law on the National Comprehensive Programme for the Development of High Science Technologies is under consideration. Bill number 4433. Report to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, Alexander Leonidovich Neustoyev. Please. Yes, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The state of research, development and implementation of modern technologies in Ukraine is characterized by such indicators. Unfortunately, the dominant industrial complex is the production of 3 and 4 technology systems, with a combined weight of 95 per cent. The 5th System of Technology in developed countries today is computerization, informing society, and modern industries. Technical industry and others in Ukraine do not exceed 5 per cent and the 6th microbiological system, high-tech medical technology, genetic engineering does not exceed 1 per cent. For the past few years, about 0.4 per cent of gross domestic product has been spent on science from the State budget, which is almost less orderly than in modern developed economies. And the share of Ukrainian high-tech products in the world market is only 0.1 per cent. If we are 21 in the world for the export of basic products from processing industries, we are 61st in exports, for example, of electronics. The data give reason to believe that the development of high scientific technologies for Ukraine is one of the most important problems that the system method will enable Ukraine to realize its stated intention to bring Ukraine closer to European standards. The proposed draft law of Ukraine and the programme were developed by the Ministry of Industrial Policy in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 26 December.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u99	Keep going, no one's breaking anything. Come to me, I'll show you the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u100	of 26 December 2002 “On the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop a public strategy for the restoration and support of national production and the development of highly competitive science-intensive technologies”. The programme was co-sponsored by the Ministry of Education and Science, the National Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Finance and other central departments of Ukraine. A coordinating committee had been established and a number of meetings had been held to address the concept of the programme, common approaches to solving problems and the implementation and financing mechanism. The programme is based on a key idea of an innovative development model in Ukraine. The aim of the law and the programme is to ensure an enabling environment for the creation and development of science-intensive technologies and, on this basis, the extensive modernization of the national economy. The main objectives of the programme are to implement projects on the development of science-intensive technologies and the introduction of such technologies in enterprises of the basic industries in priority areas, approved and defined by the Ukrainian Law on Priorities and Innovation in Ukraine. In all, eight priority areas have been identified by this law. The programme is expected to be implemented in two phases. Stage one. This is 2004-2008. This is the implementation of innovative projects with the greatest willingness to implement the main objectives of the programme, particularly those implemented and implemented under other public programmes. And the second phase, 2009-2013, is the widespread introduction of science-intensive technologies in the sectors of the economy. The law provides that the programme shall be implemented through projects for the development of science-intensive technologies. Some five hundred proposals for proposed high-tech science-intensive technologies were selected during the programme phase and over three hundred were submitted to the National Academy of Sciences. The programme was discussed in the Committees of the Supreme Council and the comments of the People's Deputies, and Nikolaenko, Yuhnovsky, Sytnika, Ehanurova, Majo, Gurova and others were taken into account and the Ministry of Industrial Policy was grateful for these clarifications. The implementation of the programme will provide an opportunity to improve the technical characteristics of domestic products and to establish an effective system of funding science, in particular science and technology projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u101	Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u102	Change the structure of the industrial complex by technology systems and increase the production of the fifth technology system from 5 to 12 per cent by 2013 and the 6th technology system from 1 to 3 per cent. Increase the share of high-tech products in Ukraine's exports to 20 per cent by 2013. The Ministry of Industrial Policy, as I have already said, has also taken note of the success of the programme in the 2005 budget. The Ministry of Industrial Policy requests the adoption of this law and programme on first reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u103	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a few questions. Five minutes. There's a name on the board. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, a faction of socialist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u104	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I listened very carefully to your report, and we really did consider it at the committee meeting. And I'll have that question for you. How would we like to consult with you here, with the Ministry of Industrial Policy, with the Ministry of Education, with all the deputies, so that the funds that were envisaged for the implementation of the high-tech projects were still in the budget? Why do you think, as Minister of Industrial Policy, today, when we accept the budget, we don't invest money where, on a 10-fold, 20-fold scale, these funds are going to go back to the budget? What is the reason why our governments think of one day rather than of decades, as all developed countries do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u105	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, I called it a figure, a share of the cost of science from the State Budget. If you look at developed countries, it's quite stable there. 3.5.7 per cent. And, of course, the Ministry of Industrial Policy will propose an increase in the share of public funding in these areas, in the development of science-intensive technologies. Of the total cost of more than 8 billion in the first phase, we are still planning that at least 30 per cent of this amount has been invested in the State budget. But most importantly, there will be a need to concentrate all financial efforts, both in the State budget and in non-State enterprises, by encouraging their development of scientific and technological products.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u106	Son of a bitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u107	Please pass Anatoly to the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to do that again. Calinchuk. Please, the faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u109	Thank you. Kalinczuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, Odščina Honourable Alexandre Leonidovich, one of the main tasks of developing and approving targeted programs of state importance, is certainly the need to coordinate the activities of central and local authorities to solve problems that require public support. So I think it would be appropriate in this program to determine exactly which government authorities, institutions, organizations and enterprises, including in the regions, should be contracting and executing the measures envisaged by the program. What is defined in this document? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u110	Thank you very much. I did not stress in the report. This programme is conceptual in nature and identifies the main areas in which implementation is needed in order for science-intensive high technologies to develop in Ukraine. And each programme in the first phase, we've selected about a hundred programs, one hundred them, it's going to be selected by a competitive commission. Of course, a combination of both regional and sectoral characteristics is important in the formulation of a common policy. In the future, it will be absolutely necessary to identify the executive authorities, particularly in the regions that will be involved in the development of the programme. But coordination should be with the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the relevant committees of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u111	Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u112	Thank you. I beg you to give Paul a word of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u113	Dear Alexander Leonidovich. I'm here. The faction, the block of our Ukraine, the Ukrainian People's Party. Alexander Leonidovich, when I listen to you, I worry about one thing, or do you know how to read Ukrainian texts? The point is that according to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, every civil servant is obliged to speak the national language. If you have problems, we will be happy to help you. They're using Ukrainian language courses with Proscience. Please try to help you, free of charge. Do so from the first day you agreed to serve, a high - ranking appointment as minister in the Ukrainian government, not a neighbouring state, in the Ukrainian government. And so if you have problems because you can read the wrong document, you can't read it like that, language is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u114	Your Honor, I fully agree with you. So I was born in Donbas and never studied Ukrainian. And I just started to study it. The thing is, when I speak, I don't know how to read a document, I report. And at this point, it's hard for me at this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u115	Thank you, Alexander Leonidovich. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Yes, the reports. Who do we have? Mother Vitaly Ivanovich is head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Dear colleagues, let's work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u116	I have a request to listen for two minutes at least to the small part of the Supreme Council present today. I want to say that Ukraine will be rich, powerful Only when, in this room, as on political issues, the issue of science, the issue of the achievements of Ukraine in the direction of science, will be considered with the kind of gambling that political issues were discussed yesterday. Today there is a need to adopt this law. It's like industrial air. Today, dozens of Ukrainian companies are working abroad, leaving people, businesses in Ukraine without jobs. Today, thousands of scientists don't work for Ukraine or because we don't have money, it's a lie. There's money, but they're not going anywhere. Because planning, all government programs are for a year because you can find someone to get rid of in a year. The design of thoughts, the presentation of ideas, to do what in five to four years, is not so much to do. It's one of the first programs to ask the question that we really need to do scientific research. I can give you an example like this. Today, the nanotechnology in this program allows a thousand times the density of elements to increase. So you don't have to run into microelectronics, because you have to catch up on microelectronics -- you need about a hundred thousand dollars, billions of dollars. Nanotechnology requires tens of billions. But we can get to the level with the United States, with Japan. And there are jobs on these issues in Ukraine. But the great trouble is that we have no one interested in these questions: neither politicians nor economists. And where is that? We're only living today. So the time will come when we ask scientists a question, we ask ourselves what the Ukrainian industry should be, Ukrainian science at such a level that we don't feel ashamed of it, and it leads our economy to the right level. I think that today's decision on this issue needs to be taken, not on the first reading today, but finally on the State budget next year, and then on to clarify what needs to be done. And this should be controlled by two committees: the first is industrial politics and the Science Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u117	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The question, at first glance, is simple and understandable. But what we're talking about today is the future vector of our Ukraine's development: whether we're still going to go, using barbaric raw materials and what we actually don't have is natural nadars; whether we're going through innovative development, that is, the introduction of science and technology intensively, into a unit of time, and thus overcoming all our neighbors and so on. I'd like to say that the raw material of the economy in Ukraine today is almost half. By the way, who praises Russia today, I remind them that in Russia today, 70 percent of the raw material, while most developed countries have a raw component of one percent. I want to say that innovation today is only produced by us -- that's only four percent of all production, four percent, every tenth enterprise has introduced some kind of scientific achievement last year, new technology and so on. And so this program that the government is offering, I think it's late. It, this programme, is prepared in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Priorities for Innovation. There are 8 directions. So I think my colleague Mother Vitaly Ivanovich and Alexander Leonidovich were talking about this program, she's got flaws. And we on the committee, when we analyzed it, we saw a lot of flaws: both in the stages of implementation, and in the methods, and in the ways. But it seems to me that it will be the most appropriate thing for us today to approve this program. The only thing, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is my request. Here, if you can write in the first reading and in the second, in the second section of the Cabinet of Ministers where it is written, the third term is that, when the annual projects are approved, high-tech development programs agree with the Committee on Industrial Policy and Science. Because we've watched, we've seen a thousand of these projects, and there's a note. But to avoid problems, the experiment was clean and we voted correctly, and we must do good each year. If we put this in -- committee control -- so that the state funds are used effectively, I think we can vote and that gives us the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection to such an offer? Then why don't we go to the vote now, if there's no objection? Let's not discuss, let's vote on one document, because we have some more to consider. Warning. Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u120	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Well, of course there's no objection to supporting this program in our faction, as in other deputies, but here's the problem. Today, our biggest program is the quality of laws. You. We are all convinced that when we immediately vote everything in general maybe some things are very inappropriate and pass by our attention. This is not the kind of law that is to be adopted today. He has a long - term perspective. That is why we insist that the bill now be voted on as a basis. I think he's going to collect a lot of votes, but then there's a normal second-reading procedure, because otherwise we'll never get a quality program, and that's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u121	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on State-wide Comprehensive Programme for the Development of High Science Technologies. On the ground, please vote. [[12:52:21]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you. There's a denial, I can't. I'll ask the committee to rework quickly. There's a denial, please. The 3004 is transferred at the request of the committee, and it needs to be further processed. [[From the hall. Don't hear it.]] Well, that's it. That's it. That's it. The committee will work quickly and we will vote on it. A draft law on the nature of privatization of state-owned shareholders is being announced for consideration. From the committee, please, Vladimir Demjochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u122	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! As you recall, this bill was drafted on the basis of a bill of the people's MP Movcan. We considered two bills on first reading, and it was decided to adopt a draft of the people's MP, Movcan. During the finalization, the Committee received 49 amendments, nine of which were taken into account. These are the amendments of the people's deputies of Movcan, Polyakov, Gorbal, Turkinov, Ehanurov. The consideration of these amendments was based on the main logic of maintaining the meaning of the law and maximizing the transparency of privatization. The Committee did not vote on two amendments, the 4th People's Deputy of Polyakova and the 31st Turkinova. After the meeting of the Committee, we received a comment on the 18th, 20th, 33rd and 47th amendments to the Gurov People's Deputy Chamber, which was 6th in the month. We couldn't look at them. The Committee decided to recommend the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u123	Who insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? Yes. Now let's go to the repairs. Silence, yes. Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u124	Honorable National MPs, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the reporter. I would like the amendments to the third article to be set out in this way on the creation of a specialized privatization commission, on the definition of privatization conditions, on the non-lethalisation of packages, and on the prioritization of investors' right to purchase shares, including the right to ransom in accordance with this law. As amended by article 7, which sets out the decision to privatize here, it is also recorded in chapter three to delete articles 16, 17, and to amend and vote at the end, I ask, after all, that the financing of the arrangements of the hydrotechnical protection system of the underground products of the Crevice Iron Basin, the technological safety and the restructuring of the mines of careers, falls away. At the time of the adoption of this law, the banks of the Crevice Basin, which are closed or closed, have been implemented since January 1, 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u125	What shall we put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u126	These are amendments 18, 26, 43 and 47. The Committee has no objection, may be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u127	So what are these adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u128	Amendments 18, 26. 43rd Amendment and 47th Amendment. The Committee agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u129	Then if the committee agrees, there is no need to vote on it. Is there anyone else who insists on repairs? Please, what's your correction, Turkov? Then we'll consider unacceptableness, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, there are, in principle, positive things in this law regarding the participation of labour groups in privatization and so forth. But I am convinced that under the regime that prevails in Ukraine today, all these good wishes may not be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u131	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u132	He knows my amendment. So my amendment was to establish a two-year moratorium on the privatization of the Crucifixion. I think both Mr. Gurov and others, especially the left factions, are actively supporting this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u133	Kassemo Moratorium, this is the amendment of the People's Deputy Ehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u134	Who else insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? None. Have a seat, please. So we have two. Have a seat, Vladimir Anatolyovich. Two decisions are about inadmissibility. What is the correction? What was your correction? Where is she, give it to me. There's no change? That's how you guys figure it out. Gur, you need to base your decision on the inadmissibility. What's that? It's the 24th Turk amendment. Please, the committee on this subject is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u135	We believe that the 24th amendment should be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u136	I'm voting on the 24th amendment. This is page six of Alexandra Turkinova. I'd like to make up my mind, Your Honor. [[12:59:14]] For-82 The amendment is not accepted. Vadim Gurov, please. Justification of your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u137	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to address the Dnepropetrov delegation, the majors and party lists. I'm being listened to by all the radios in the Dnepropetrov region. So here's what I want to tell you: what's going on in this room, in this room, and especially the bottom-up people -- it's practically a knife in the heart of our industry, it's a law, I want to tell you, anti-Ukrainian, it's in no way acceptable. I want to bring you back to the events on 20 November when we adopted this law on first reading. Consider the conclusion of the Chief Expert Office that this law destroys Ukultrum as a unit, i.e. we lose our birthplace. Let's move on. “A general conclusion. According to the results of the first reading, the project can be taken as a basis for the following accounting," that is, the law that MPs gave, and now look at what Movchan is proposing. First of all, instead of leaving the 50 plus 1 package, 25 are proposed by the State, i.e. practically leaving the mining complex. And I want to tell you, Krivbass is the foundation, it's the foundation of the metalworking part. That's why it's second. There is absolutely no participation of the labour community in this law. The law of Silence has deleted this case. They'll share. Each will have its own: CHEC, separately, JOGK, separately. And I'm like, "What do you think about working Krivbassa?" The question is: Who will deal with it? They are now taking and privatizing “tops”, i.e. only healthy businesses. And I'm asking you all, "Who's gonna do the nuts?" Who's going to deal with the failures, who's going to do the water, who's going to do the social work in this town? And this city is 800,000, not such a small town. So I'm particularly addressing party leaders, and you'll understand that the password to the heart of this city will depend on how you, the party, vote. You will vote against the workers of the city and against Krivbass - you may not go there because now everyone is listening and knows that the fate of the city, not only Krivbassa, is being decided by the economy of Ukraine. I'm asking you to think twice before pressing the button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u138	I'll put it to a vote. The questions are not about unacceptableness. I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- and then yours will be, in turn, the rejection of the draft Ukrainian law on the features of the privatisation of the State Shareholder Company. Project of the People's Deputies of Gurova. Registration number 3168-p2. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:03:16]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The word is given by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 19, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, faction of Communists - 58, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and "Trudience Ukraine" - 1, "SDPU" - 0, "The People's Government" - 2, "SPO - 2, "Uuliya Timoshenko - 18, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Agrarian Party" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 3, "NDP - 0", "O" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 1. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the Viktor Yushchenka constituency of "Our Ukraine". Now, when Mr. Gurov came in front of me, it was quite right with the preservation of the state's position that today's decision was not just the fate of Krivbasu. Today the fate of the Ukrainian economy is really being resolved and it is really deciding whether or not to enrich another $1 billion clan or not, and this money will gradually work on Kriubas, on Dnipropetrov, on Ukraine and on its future. The point is that the law adopted in the first reading, which is prepared for second reading, must be declared totally unacceptable and rejected as being contrary to the Constitution, the Code of Budgets, and other laws of Ukraine. The adoption and entry into force of this project will lead to a violation of the economic interests of the State and of a number of valid legal acts. Article 13 of the Constitution states that every citizen has the right to use natural objects, the right to own a nation according to law. Now it's just going to be a bunch of oligarchs. In article 14, where the land is the main national asset against special protection, as a result of privatization under the scheme laid down in this project, the state stock company Krusprom will not be saved as the only farm complex, which is what we have put in the ideology of the law and asked. And that's exactly what was thrown out on the committee. All Gurov's proposals are thrown out, patriotic proposals that will be responsible for eliminating such consequences. What can be the outcome? Decommissioning of repositories, the need to extract mines and career waters and their disposal of 26 million Cubometers per year, waste collection and so on, ensuring the technological security of the region under the conditions of 49 million. Cubometers of built spaces and voids in mines and careers, which may in some circumstances lead to extinction, do not give God a technological catastrophe. So all the costs of technology security in the region are based not on the owner of the company that gets most dividends, but on the state. There is no provision for funding these costs in the necessary amount in the State Budget. The Ukrainian State Privatization Program Act, paragraph 10, provides that an industrial investor is a domestic or foreign investor or their association who is interested in preserving a portion of the enterprise in the market of the product concerned and for at least three years produces the same basic products that are privatized or consumed mainly in the production of such an enterprise that produces the product used mainly by the enterprise. And there is also a violation, a violation of other articles, the fifth, the law, of the article five projects, where there is only the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u140	Well, the conclusion? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u141	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that you are now focused on the cards, in general. Think of it as an unacceptable vote right now, sending the law to second reading, repeating it, taking into account all the positions, the expert opinion that said it was detrimental to economic interests. And let's raise the state's property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u142	I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council Resolution, registration number 3168-p3, by Karmazin, on the inadmissibility of the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law, the adoption of the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Enterprises of the State Shareholder Company. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[13:08:19]] For the 180. Borszewski, with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u143	Borszewski, Dnepropetrovsk oblast, Communist faction. The Dnepropetrov region knows, unfortunately, examples when after privatization.Combinata.City stood for three days without heat; when the ZBK was militarily privatized, three years of unheated settlement. Today, this fate awaits the Horn of Krivo, as well as the miners of Prvoravnenska, who, after privatization, have increased their prices for heat. Today I call attention to my countrymen, the Dnipropetrovers. Look, count in your last name who are actually trying to sign the sentence of your future life by today's vote. But I think there will be forces now that will not support this anti-national law, an anti-State law that seeks only to enrich certain clans of oligarchic groups. And I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u144	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u145	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. Since everyone is explaining the motives of their vote, I would also like to refer to the true state of affairs. In fact, there is now a struggle between two lines: privatizing this complex as a whole by one monopoly that will put all the metallurgy and the economy of Ukraine at stake or allowing many to do so and create competition. So this second path is much more effective for the state, for Ukraine and for the people of Dniproperty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u146	May I have your attention, Your Honor? I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law on the specialities of privatization of state-owned stockholder companies. [[Registration number 3168]] Please vote. [[13:10:50]] For 276 The law is passed. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 44, the Ukraine is 65, the Communists are 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Labour Ukraine is 36, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is 26, the People's Government is 12, the SPI-16, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 0, the Democratic Initiative is 17, the Agrarian Party is 15, the People's Choice is 11, the NDP is 14, the Postfaction is 20. [[united]] Dear colleagues! Please, the Giants for the reasons of the vote. We still have a number of important decisions to make, I beg you, dear colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! What just happened doesn't surprise me. On another occasion, the largest faction of our Ukraine supported Leonid Danilovich Kuchma in its decisions. Kuchma and Yushchenko are twins. Which I congratulate you on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u148	Klukkowski, the turnip.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u149	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". I would strongly advise our fellow Communists to look for a log in their eye, not a crack in a strange one, because such activity is counterproductive. We've always been ideologically different with you, and our positions will always be the opposite. And we are proud of the fact that we were the first to raise the Ukrainian people against communism, and I think we will gain communism as a political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, colleague Bespali has withdrawn his warning about the draft Law on the National Comprehensive Programme for the Development of High Scientific Technologies. Then we have every reason to put him to the vote for adoption as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on the State-wide Comprehensive Programme for the Development of High Scientific Technologies, registration number 4433. Please vote. [[13:13:25]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a few more laws here, let's work quickly. A draft Law on Reforming the Armed Forces of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Georgi Korniyovich, please. Well, now the committee head will tell you his position, well, listen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I have to ask the Supreme Council to withdraw from today's plenary session and move for the next plenary week to review the draft Law on Reforming the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The fact is that while the bill is prepared by the committee for consideration in the second reading, it takes into account more than 72 proposals from the national deputies, it has changed the name according to the Constitution, substantially reinforced social guarantees for the social protection of military personnel who are released from the army. We cannot consider and adopt the law today. Why? According to article 4 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, the number of Armed Forces is confirmed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the suggestion of the President of Ukraine. Yet today, the president has not made such a proposal. On my written request to the President on this matter from March 24th. On the 5th of April, the president's head of the President's Office telephoned that the President's filing is not yet being filed. It's more than a strange situation. I don't want to take all the time, we'll have the opportunity to talk about it, but we can't consider and make decisions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u152	Let us set aside our consideration of the matter. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the size of certain types of compulsory public social insurance. The committee has considered and proposes to accept proposals in the second reading, in fact, all taken into account. No one insists on any work that has not been done? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the size of certain types of compulsory public social insurance, registration number 4434. Please vote. [[13:16:04]] For 318 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance for Average Wages is being announced for consideration, registration number 4538. Yes, the committee considered and offered to accept in the second reading and generally as a law. And it's about being unacceptable. Yes. Please, about the inadmissibility of Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u153	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You all know the colossals of this law for what they've come up with. In connection with the implementation of the so - called pension reform, the first of January’s pensions were paid, not according to law, 376 dollars, but 70 dollars less. And that led to a lot of pensioners being deceived. The law is now essentially proposing to bring the legal base under this illegal decision of the government. In addition, this law gives us essentially the right to regulate an important social standard, such as pension insurance, for the government to determine the average wage. So the faction and I, as the author of this draft regulation, propose not to support this decision and to vote in favour of the non-admissibility of the law that legitimizes the reduction of the basis for the recalculation of Ukrainian pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u154	I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance, registration number 4538-4P. The author is the national MP Pinzenik. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[13:18:16]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I wish to recall the situation as follows. We have considered several bills, and all the amendments proposed to the bill are therefore conditionally divided into two elements. The first block of amendments, which completely changes the concept of the law, and the second, which supports and develops those proposals that were voted on in the first reading. So the first block of amendments is Alešin's first amendment and Stojan's fourth amendment. I repeat, they are designed to change the ideology of the bill accordingly. The Committee therefore proposes that, after consideration at its meeting, the blocs should vote in favour of the drafting of the bill and those that change its diameter in contrast. The first two amendments that I have just heard, number one and number four, are those that change the concept of the bill adopted on first reading. Accordingly, as the drafter of the bill, I propose not to support it. Do not support these amendments. Corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u156	Klukkowski, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u157	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, you have just said that the amendments approved by the committee have completely changed the concept of this bill, both in your speech and in the transcript. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have just given yet another reason for the inadmissibility of your bill in the way it was passed, since the adoption of the law in the first reading means the approval of the concept of this law in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee is not authorized to change what is approved by the Supreme Council of the country. Therefore, your editorial cannot be put to the vote today. You need to go back to what is being saved, to the concept that was adopted in the first reading and to make amendments within it, or you are in violation of the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u158	I am absolutely in solidarity with my colleague, so I said that the Committee had not taken a decision on the subject. One of the authors asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u159	Yes, Aloshin's first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u160	Aleshina. It violates the ideology of first reading, adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u161	Please, Aloshina microphone, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! I would like to confirm that my amendment is somehow conceptually different from what was adopted earlier. But it preserves the conceptual integrity of the main law of pension reform, a law that we have passed together more than 350 votes. And so I insist that the Supreme Council either reaffirm this conceptual commitment to the law that defines the general structure of the pension model in Ukraine or revise the model that all Ukrainian citizens expected to improve as a result of the adoption of the law. So I do have an insistence that we preserve the conceptual definition of the General Compulsory Pension Insurance Act and confirm it by voting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the First People's Deputies of Aloshina. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:22:22]] For the 110.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u164	Yes, for - 110, no decision is made. Who insists on their amendments that are not taken into account? I don't see any. Then I put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee. What? Aloshin, please, microphone. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee has not provided the Supreme Council with a text ready for adoption in the second reading. So you have to either vote in favour of confirming the amendments that are contained in the middle column, because in the right column, we don't have any text as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u166	Please, Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, in fact, so far, have proposed materials that in the disruptive table do not have the finality of a number of amendments. But if we don't, no one will insist on their amendments and, accordingly, we will vote without amendments because the authors don't insist on them, the law can be passed and it will be targeted in its own way, so to speak, the concept and everything that the law should have.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u168	From the procedure? Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u169	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a new situation has emerged that prevents us from making decisions under this bill. I insist, however, that the rule of the Rules be respected, which gives every national MP 12 days to learn about the draft prepared for the second reading. I mean, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we just can't make this decision about this bill. If there is anything else, I ask Adam Ivanovich or you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give their interpretation on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u170	Excuse me. The bill was considered by the March 23rd Committee. Count how many days this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, there are different thoughts. So I'm going to make the first proposal, which was a proposal from the committee, and we're going to continue to define the adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on average wage]] Registration number 4538-4. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u172	I beg your pardon. [[13:25:11]] For-191 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u173	On second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-09-m0.u174	I'm voting on a proposal to send a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance" to read again. [[on average wage]] Registration number 4538-4. [[13:25:47]] For 202 The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, let's vote, we need to make a decision on the issues under discussion so that the committees can work. We'll get through this very quickly. Draft Ordinance on Amendments to Article 3.3. 4 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the record-to-do procedure]] [[completed]] [[N o M e s s a ……]] We're just laying the foundation, dear fellows. We've been over it, we've been over it, we've been over it, we haven't made up our minds. You don't have to, so you don't have to. Let's take this question. Draft Law on the State Property Fund. Can we just take it for granted? [[N o M e s s a ……]] That's how we discussed it. What's "no"? I didn't get it. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. The question already discussed. On the adoption as a basis of the Draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Registration number 4580. Please vote. On the ground! Please vote. [[13:27:03]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. I can see that, dear colleagues who are not in the mood, we can then reject all the laws. Let's maybe do it this way, I have an offer. Since we're in the middle of a big holiday, maybe we won't be having "Virgin" tonight? We already talked yesterday, said we were thinking about each other. So let us, fellow believers, welcome you to Easter, which will soon come, wish all of us health, success, the fulfillment of Christ’s commandments, and the realization of them in our practical activities. The next meeting will take place on April 13th — Government Day. The question is very important: "On the implementation of the Pension Insurance Act." Everyone please be in the session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
