ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. Prepare to register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:57]] Registered -434 There are 434 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The draft Law on Supplements to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on the Income of Individuals on Taxation of the Income of Personal Farmers is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4331]] Reporter Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna I'm asking you, Your Honor, that we've worked quickly, but very effectively. We still have a lot of draft laws to consider. That's how many there are. Prepare for the report Tsushka Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! The decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the income tax of citizens operating until 1 January 2004 did not include incomes from the sale of personal household products, taxes on crops, beekeeping, cattle, rabbits, nutrients, birds, and so on. However, since January 1, 2004, these benefits have been abolished by the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. Even at the drafting stage of this law, we emphasized that correcting taxes in this area could result in unjustified losses. The farmer will have to get rid of the last livestock, produce only for his own purposes, as 13 percent of the net profit will never be earned by the farmer. And if you pay this tax, it means you're in harm's way. So we've proposed a bill that's distributed to you and that provides for the removal from the Income Tax Act of natural persons of a standard when incomes from the sale of agricultural products grown or produced in the land of private agriculture, dowry, tax areas, garden and urban cooperatives are not included in the amount of taxation from natural persons. This law is given to you. Starting in December, this question is in the order of the day, but it was included as one of the points in Law 4001. You know the fate of Law 4001, but we can't let the income generated by the peasants from the docking areas be taxed on the results of the first quarter. So, dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill by writing down such a rule that the tax year is acting under the law we passed, which is January and February, and March was not included in taxation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u3	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Have a seat, please. It's a reduced procedure, please sit down. Honorable colleagues, reduced procedures, unfortunately, or fortunately. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend the adoption of this law, because this is Cusco Vasil Petrovich, he is sick, so let us now, if necessary, briefly discuss this bill. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up. Now point out who signed up. Two for, two against, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Olga Hinsburg will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u4	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Catherine Timothy, you know that your faction has supported this Law on Budget. Well, it looks like you're first creating a problem for all the villagers, making them sleep badly, making them suffer, leaving us with letters, and then we're eliminating this problem. So I would like to propose that we adopt this law. He needs to be taken. But dear friends, the very government, the one called the coalition government, suggested this. After all, the decree signed by Prime Minister Kuchma was not intended to be taken from the people. So this proposal has to be supported, because taxation of farmers' income from selling them agricultural products, which are grown or produced in their own farms, is not on time today, first of all. Second, they're always wandering around in markets, and they're not allowed to go to those markets. And I would suggest, because this bill is very small, very small, I would like to ask today to consider the question so that it can be considered both in the first and second readings, if there are no comments. Because today, taking advantage of these people and asking them that question in general, it's just criminal. And what is now blocked by the President's Bill 4101, which at least levelled a little bit against the kind of disadvantages adopted in the State Budget Act, is catastrophic for the people of Ukraine. And I think, and I'm going to my colleague Tsushka, his committee, let's level these positions that have now been rejected by the President. Let's work on more. I'm going to the Budget Committee for Dusty. Let's work out, let's correct this scarce budget and all the consequences it's created. And I ask that we do not create problems for ourselves and then deal with them successfully. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've been distracted I'd like to ask, then if there's no notice to put in the first and second readings right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u5	Thank you. Olga Hizburg. None. Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Dear voters, distinguished radio audiences, I would like to draw our common attention to how this is being pushed through the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a subversive position of the capitalist party of Ukraine on this issue. It was on May 22, 2003, at 11 a.m. 34 minutes, that there was a roll-call vote on the draft Income Tax Act, number 111-D, in the third reading. It was in this bill that what the crocodile tears are about to shed today was confirmed. Who and how did he vote? The post-faction vote was then 15-in favour of 20, "Our Ukraine" voted in favour of 83, the faction of Communists voted in full - "against" no vote was added, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko - 8 voted in favour, the Socialist Party faction voted in favour - 19, the faction of the Agrarian Party, which is also pouring from the cry of crocodile, the Group of European Choices voted 15-in favour, the People's Democrats voted in favour - "against" - 0, the "Regions of Ukraine" voted in favour - 43, now pours "Crocodil Tears", the Group of the European Choice voted in favour - 19, the Cold Ukraine and the other industrialists voted in favour - 42, "Democratic Initiatives" to vote in favour of 15. What are you doing? What are you doing, capitalist chamberlain? It is you who have led the people to rise up against you, and now from the rostrum of the Supreme Council you are pouring "crocodil tears." The people have already told you all that they belong to. So once again, do not be so double - minded, be consistent, if you are people, be with the people! Don't sell the Ukrainian people! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u7	Olga Hinzburg, please, missed her speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u8	It's okay. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The Communist faction, Hinzburg. Today, we're looking at such a complex question, and the question that's affected the interests of the poorest population category is the workers of agriculture. I have asked the Prime Minister today that even such a problem in the village as the transformation of houses, I am no longer talking about this problem that we are looking at today, the transformation of houses that a man or woman has died, are taking 600 or 700 dollars for this transformation today. And if this person who lives alone sells milk before that, and they still have to impose those taxes on her, she just can't stand it. And today my colleague Solomonin spoke correctly, and the people in the Supreme Council Hall supported it. We need to remove this problem today and vote. The Communist faction is asking us to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u9	Yes, the last speaker. Novak, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u10	Dear comrades, colleagues! I would like to say that this law must be supported. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen, because today it's the most destitute people in our country, and we even want to see what they're doing at their docking site to put in a tax. Think of it this way: what could be bought for one carbonite in the late 1980s in Soviet Ukraine? A loaf of bread cost 13 copies, a gallon of milk — 15, 100 grams of beef — 30 copies, 50 grams of cream — 18 copies, 50 grams of sugar — five copies, nine eggs, and one kilogram of potatoes — 10 copies. And it's all on one carbonite, it's practically possible to live. That's why now, if you analyze what's going on, I don't think we should go after anyone, but solve the issue in such a way as to support this law and not take taxes from income. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. For reasons, please, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. On January 26, at number 4611-1, Nikolayenko and Boki, Ukrainian national deputies, on behalf of the Socialist faction, amended article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Tax on the Income of Persons, where we want citizens' incomes from sales grown in personal support farms, on dowry, on other areas, not to be taxed. And that's why I would ask, because Boko-Nikolanka's bill basically coincides with Catherine Vaschuk's bill, so that we can vote for it. And I would advise Yuri Solomatin: if he were speaking, not only would he speak as he voted, but he might, in fact, say at least one word of the law, not just count to the left and right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to Article Four of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act, registration number 4331. [[on taxation of the income of private farmers]] Please vote. [[16:16:05]] For 410 Dear colleagues, there was a proposal made by George Carmazin -- adopted by this law in the draft law as a whole as a law. No objections? I'm voting on adoption as a whole. Draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on the Income of Persons. [[on taxation of the income of private farmers]] Registration number 4331. Please vote. [[16:16:49]] For 409 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I have here two factions calling for a 30-minute recess. I'm asking you to do something different. I'm asking the heads of the MPs and factions to gather in the Head's office to discuss our organization of work further and the work of the Supreme Council to continue. I want to reassure everyone who today will consider issues that are exclusively scheduled. Dear colleagues, calm down! No surprises, I guarantee you, there won't be! It is announced before the review of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on taxation. [[on coal mine safety equipment]] If anything else happens, I'll be right there, don't worry. 4202. Reporter Leonid Yuhimovich Zviagilski Faction leaders are requested to meet in the Head office in 10 minutes. They're offering to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u14	My friends! I give you my word that this is the first law that you're going to do a good thing today -- vote, that's what you're going to do, so there's no trouble, no explosions, no man's death in the mines. I swear! So I can report now, and if you believe me, let's vote! No, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen. No objections? I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on taxation of equipment to improve the safety of coal mines. [[Registration number 4202]] Please vote. [[16:18:59]] For 336 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u16	May I have your attention, please? No objection, dear colleagues? I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on taxation of equipment for improving the safety of coal mines. [[Registration number 4202]] Please vote. [[16:19:39]] For 358 The law is passed. A draft Act amending Chapter 11 of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on customs duties for textiles and sewing is being announced for consideration. Reporter for the First Deputy Minister of Economy and Euro-Integration of Friday’s Valérie Teziyovich, please. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! You will be given the Amendment Act to Chapter 11 of the Customs Tariff, which is designed, as a final one, to implement agreements between Ukraine and the European Union under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. This law amends the Customs tariff for a number of items. This includes 500 subcategories of textile and sewing products. Tariff reductions are applied only to duty rates, and the size of the full rates remains unchanged. In general, the rate difference is between 0.1 and 0.6 percent. And the total reduction in duties today is an average of 5.8 to 5.7 percent. This bill was passed by the Supreme Council's Committees on Finance and Banking, Industrial Policy, Entrepreneurship and European Integration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the implementation of this law and the implementation of the Treaty with the European Union in the field of textiles have allowed for a significant increase in textile exports in recent years. And if you look at 95 percent of the exports of textiles happen not to SND countries, but to over 70 percent of the countries of the European Union, we expect further increases in quota-free exports to the countries of the European Union. Please uphold this law and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u18	Thank you. Have a seat, please. National MP Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliovich reports Bill 3620-1. None. From the Zushko Committee. Please, yes, Kaputin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u19	Dear friends, the committee was supposed to report to Tsuko Vasil Petrovich, he's not here right now, so I'll say a few words. We've been looking at this bill on the committee a few days ago, and the committee supports this bill and asks that it be voted for in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u20	Thank you, Your Honor. There's a draft decision by the Vasunika People's Deputy to be unacceptable. Please, Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I have passed an alternative bill, but it has not yet been considered by the committee. I want to ask some questions for the hall and the developers. Why are we in a hurry, and who is chasing us in front of the steamboat? The decision reduces the import duty on textiles to 12 percent. The government's argument is this: this is what our Agreement with the EU requires. In this regard, I would like to ask if the government answers a number of questions. Question one. Does the government know that in recent years and in recent years, with the average growth in industry, in the national economy, 7-9 percent of the increase in the textile industry in Ukraine is virtually absent? First. Does the government know that, according to customs statistics, about 400 million pairs of textiles are imported into Ukraine each year. I'll just give you one number. The average cost of production of costumes imported into Ukraine last year is 14 cents, from which duties are paid to the State Budget of 9 United States centers. Now for GAT and SOT. I or the government know that Poland, which is already a member of the GAT SOT since 1996, had an average stake of 30 per cent by the time it joined the GAT SOT and one month before its entry into the EU, the average wage is 16 per cent. I think that the proposed bill is another endorsement of the government, and we want to legitimize it, another confirmation of the fact that the government, having a weak position of external economic relations, is taking another step towards the practical destruction of a very important sector that is subject to exclusion in all international relations. Until then, at least by the end of 1995, the liberalisation of the international trade has not yet been completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u22	Thank you. Yeah, well, shall we be clear? Kirilchuk, with motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u23	Kirilchuk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Adam Ivanovich, 2004 budgeted The size of these rates affects the budget. The Committee on Budgets did not consider this question. There is no decision on this matter by the Budget Committee. Such a question should not be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u24	Thank you. Of those who sign up, who insists on speaking? Please, Karmazin. Get ready for school. Carmazine's in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u25	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, have we been invited to the EES? We were not invited to the EES. Today, we are demeaningly offered to lower our level of protection for our national manufacturer. I would ask you, please don't accept this law. Don't put up with your businesses. I'm talking to the government, well, I understand that you often go to the EU, everything is said to you, that it is better to give up the national interests of Ukraine. But in the circumstances where Ukrainians are treated disrespectfully, when Ukrainians are treated in such a way that they are required to take visas, and we are visited by open doors without a visa, anyone from all countries. And we're silent about that. And here I fully share the conclusions reached by the National MP, Vasjunik. He proved on a reasonable basis what Ukrainian national interests are. We are today, and so on, textiles are crumbling, Turkish, Polish, other. Because customs are underpriced, we now have health markets in your famous cities: both in Kharkiv, in Odessa, in Lviv, and in Hmelnicki, but millions of jobs, whatever they may be, produced in us this product, including one we bring from China, Korea and so on. I urge you to adopt this law prematurely and now its adoption is not in the interests of Ukraine's national security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u26	Thank you. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u27	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. First of all, I would like to point out that, in fact, Ukraine has not yet become a member of the EES, and I don't know when it will be. And when we want to measure European medicines and say that we want to live by European standards, we have to start living by them: we have to have freedom of the press, we have to have an independent court, we have to have independent law enforcement, we have to have democratic power after all -- these are the main principles of European democracy, not to reduce import rates on goods of light industry. Fear God, we have the opportunity to serve our own people at those reduced rates. This is not a requirement of the European Union. This, in keeping with the EEC requirement, is what they want to do with the Lobby Law. We know who it is and who will make it. But it loses the whole of Ukraine, loses the Ukrainian industry, loses the Ukrainian future industry, which will eventually be revived and worked. And so once again, it's a disgraceful practice so narrowly lobbyist laws even suggest. If it were there, I don't know, the government, by its determination, did something like this, I wouldn't be very surprised, but when it's proposed to the Supreme Council, when they want to use MPs as buttoners to solve someone's interests, that's another question. So I would recommend even supporting the bill on the non-admissibility of this law and rejecting it forever in order to demonstrate that Ukrainian MPs have a Ukrainian position, and we do not have to keep implying the European Union here. This is never and will never be the main requirement of the European Union for us to open our markets now, before joining the WTO, before joining the European Union. Let's go to the SOT -- normal, then we can look at it, and that's not a prerequisite for entering the SOT, that's a prerequisite for the profit of those people behind the bill. That's it. And this profit is going to happen in a normal and simple way: the decrease in the rate is going to increase the quantity of imports, the quantity of imports is going to increase the negotiable costs. But this will destroy the Ukrainian industry. She's here anyway. The cologne stands, the factories lie, nothing moves, and we want to throw it all at imported potters to make it look at least one more way. That's why I'm stressing everyone. Yeah, I'm being told that there's no more monks -- we want to talk about something here. Then there will be no easy industry. Let us at least preserve the prospects for the resurgence of the light industry in Ukraine without voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u28	Thank you. For reasons of vote, Terjehochin, and we will determine. Teryohin’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, this question, when discussed in our committee, has generated many different thoughts. I'd like to tell you this. First, there are exceptions under the WTO rules to two, at least two industries. One is the textile industry and the other is the agricultural sector. Secondly, if we make the decision that the government is offering us, tomorrow let's forget that we have textiles, we have an easy industry, we'll keep Chinese, Vietnamese and so on products in our markets that will not be taxed at all. So I have one request. In view of the fact that even in the European Union, once again, attention! - in the European Union, where there is a common customs zone where there are no problems with the movement of goods, there are exceptions to textiles. So let's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u30	We'll vote. The government reported. Please lock up, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u31	I'd like to make a small, distinguished national MP, I'd like to make a little comment. First, look at what the price of the question is: we're lowering the average rate by 0.1 percent. This is the first time. Second, when we're talking about lobbyism. If we don't adopt this law, the European Union is going back to the quota of our product. And we're protecting our domestic businesses here, because if they've worked without quotas over the last three years, they've grown accordingly. And today, exports to the European Union alone exceed 4 times, for example, women's and girls' fabric coats, raincoats, coats, jackets twice -- bridge jackets, shorts, pants, and so on and so forth. I can give a lot more examples here. If you imagine that 70 percent of our exports of textile and sewing products belong to the European Union, the reduction in quotas will actually lead to a halt to the tens or perhaps hundreds of businesses that work today. This allowed investment to be made; today investors are not afraid to invest in businesses because they understand that they will be able to export as much as they want to to the European Union. If we stop this, the European Union will be able to place its orders at any enterprise in Eastern Europe, Moldova, Belarus, Russia, China and so on and so forth. I mean, I'm asking you to be careful about this law and accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. In accordance with the Rules, I am the first to put forward the draft decree of the Vasunika People's Deputy on the Inadmissibility of the Draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. [[on customs duties for textile and sewing production]] Bill number 3620-2p. I'd like to make a statement. It's an unacceptable vote. [[16:35:11]] For-67 The decision is not taken. That's why I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. [[on customs duties for textile and sewing production]] Bill number 3620-2 is government. Please vote. [[16:35:49]] For 287 The law is adopted as a basis. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 34, Ukraine - 58, Communist - 57, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs Party, Labour Ukraine - 41, Social Democratic Party, Ukraine - 31, People's Government - 13, SPI-0, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 2, Democratic Initiatives - 13, Agrarian Party - 115, People's Choice - 113, NDP - 5, Postfaction - 5. [[united]] The bill was adopted in the first reading. There is a draft Act amending Ukraine's customs tariff for mobile phone duties. [[Registration number 3569]] Reports Long Taras Alexiyovich. We're looking at a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! To your consideration, a bill is proposed to change the specific rate of duty to mobile phones, which for today is 15 euros and 30 euros, respectively. The purpose of the bill is to prevent imports into Ukraine by inconceivable control of mobile phones and thus increase revenues to the state budget. In 2002 alone, the mobile subscriber database increased by a million 400 subscribers and was officially imported according to data from the Ukrainian State Customs Service into Ukraine by just 148 thousand mobile terminals, which is only 10 percent of the total. So 90 percent of mobile phone imports are done without customs. By the way, the 2004 growth forecast for subscribers is between 9 million and 10 million. This leads to the following consequences: mobile phone smuggling, the high activity of the grey market, the reduction of the competitiveness of official suppliers, and the entry into the market of non-quality goods, which in turn violates consumer rights. I note that the bill was supported by the Committee on Construction, Transport and Housing by the Committee on European Integration, as well as by the Customs and Tariff Council at the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u34	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who's gonna report from the committee? Please, the chairman of the Burjak Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting on November 11, 2003, reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Customs Tariff at number 3569. The bill cited above proposes that mobile telephones, lawyers, or import - duty rates of 10 percent and 20 percent instead of the current 15 euros and 30 euros per item. Thus, the drafters of the bill aim to reduce the tax burden on imported steel equipment in Ukraine, which in turn will ensure their legalization in the Ukraine market and increase the government budget revenue from imports of all goods into Ukraine. At its meeting on 14 October 2003, the Customs Tariff Council at the Cabinet of Ministers agreed with the proposal of Ukrainian National Deputies Long and Sharov to change the specific rate of import duty to steel. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council concludes that the bill can be based on it. Our committee supports this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u36	Thank you. Sergei Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Then please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u37	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that has been proposed clearly shows that we're taking a course to support a foreign producer, a clear course, it's going down one and a half times, and I'm stressing respecters once and for all, it's like it's a fight against smuggling. Smuggling is fought by administrative and criminal means, not just by means of means that we do all the time, because according to the logic of the authors, if we lower or make it zero, there will never be smuggling. No, it's not. I would like to emphasize to you, honourable national deputies, that in Ukraine there is the first mobile phone of domestic production that will cost between 150 and 200 dollars to be sold in the summer of this year. And our developers are the employees of the Science and Research Institute of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, and they're afraid that foreign competitors are going to do everything they can to keep this phone from becoming mass. And here you are, please, the realization of these fears. It's the new Ukrainian mobile phone that uses both American and Japanese details, which is the road in it, which is the Ukrainian software, which is the road in it. And in this case, I think the proposed project is harmful to our economy. And with regard to legislation. What he's up to. We have a Customs Council at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and she hasn't made a statement on this bill. We don't have his conclusion, and we don't have it handed out to the National Deputies. And I remind you that, in accordance with Article 5 of the Single Customs Tariff Act, it is the function of this Customs Tariff Council to consider draft legislation and Ukraine's international customs-tariff agreements. As for the Customs Tariff Act, which we passed on April 5, 2001, the establishment of new rates of import duty is being implemented by the Supreme Council through the adoption of laws taking into account the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I don't have that conclusion yet, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies. And I think that stretching such laws is not the way to Europe, is the way to colonialism, is the way to Africa. I propose to be a civilized country in Europe and to support my own producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u38	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, but even in Africa there are mobile phones. Yeah, who else? School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u39	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. This bill, it's also a product of lobbyism, and it's done quite undetected, because if someone wanted to help in this situation, that is, to increase the imports of high-value mobile phones, so-called smartphones, it would be said. There should be some differentiation. When a significant percentage of these mobile phones are taken away from Ukraine, of course it is not possible to deal with smuggling. This is the same thing as saying that let us then legalize crime, and then there will be no crime in Ukraine. So likewise, let's open the borders, and there will be no smuggling. That's not going to happen in Ukraine and there's not going to be any Ukrainian economy. But whatever you could agree with here, the truth is that you could reduce the import tax on third-generation phones, high generation phones, high-powered products, or smartphones, is the phones that Ukraine, well, will not produce, because I respect the production of Ukrainian phones, but first of all, it's still a long-distance prospect that it, this phone machine, will become mass -- it's the first one. And secondly, you won't have to go around the world monopolies that have long monopolised, practically, the phone market. So if I were to say again, it wouldn't be a lobbyist law, it would actually be worded that way. Production was high, scientific, and the rate was reduced, and they would remain at the same level. That is to encourage us to import more quality, more expensive products that we don't produce in order to provide the Ukrainian market with quality goods, not secondary or third-class goods. Then, I would say again, this would be a law with clear, well, reasons for its appearance in the Supreme Council. And here's the reason, too, but it's not pleasant to say that it's a lobbyist reason. Because I fully agree that there are huge numbers of smuggled phones going through the territory of Ukraine. They are. I mean, they're coded in incoherently, then they're incoherently working, and later they're complaining about those who serve these phones, but let's look the truth in the eye that this isn't the way to fight smuggling. And here, I say again, the law-makers should come here, come to the Supreme Council with the understanding that there are people here who are smart, that they shouldn't be pushed in here by a law that ensures the interests of a very narrow array of people in this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u40	Thank you. Who among those who have signed up insists? Only those who are written down. Yes. Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Our faction was determined by its attitude toward this bill. We can't support him. And I'd like to put a dot on that because it's already said enough to characterize its essence. And that time that I have left, I want to use it to ask for the commission of the believers of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, who in the number of several hundred people were under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today and for their instructions, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is addressed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bills No.4002 on the Single Register of Personal Data and Bill No. 4368 on the Registration of Individuals in Ukraine. These people are begging the chairman, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to support this bill as being in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the rights of believers of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. In this package, 101 is a personal statement. To the Head of the Supreme Council, I submit this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u42	Yuri Petrovich, I'm making a note that you're not speaking on the subject. Please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u43	The miner, the valley constituency number 79, the faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this bill is concerned, the following can be said. All of us should make sure that the budget is filled and that our people can communicate normally with mobile phones. Recently, while in a foreign assignment, I was comparing prices for cell phones with similar brands in Ukraine and in the country of production -- and, indeed, I found that we have lower prices in Ukraine. Well, of course, there's a pretty large amount of smuggling. But I want to point out that the mobile phone itself, its body is no more than scrap metal and macularity if it's not connected to the relevant communications operator. That's why the bill doesn't look for a way out. You need to find a tax collection for the liaison operators when you connect the respective phone stamps to these operators, and then this smuggling will lose all its meaning. Thus, the law is unacceptable in this edition, it leads to budget losses, and it will have no effect on the development of our mobile phone, and we need to work on it further to bring the matter to order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to raise your hands or raise your hands to those who do not have mobile phones. I'm going to give Melnichuku a word, and I'm going to give it a minute. And we'll vote. Melniczuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u45	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. First of all, I want to joke about this bill to rename the Ministry of Economics and Integration to the Ministry of Degradation. Why "degradation"? Because we don't have drums in Ukraine today. Long live! Probably the government led by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic gave the Ministry of Degradation the task of taking away all the customs, opening the borders, and transporting all the salt products. Dear Ukrainian peasants! See what the government does to you, Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u46	Turn off the microphone! Mikhail Vasilovich, I'm also making a note. Barabbas and mobile phones are different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill proposes to solve economic problems with economic levers on the grounds that, to date, mobile phones have become a mass product of consumption and naturally, reducing this. The import tariffs on it will allow you to receive a cheaper price to a private consumer. And that's what we need to talk about today. One last moment. Protection of the local manufacturer. It's absolutely the right question, but not so completely and literally in the forehead. Have our manufacturer do the machines and take them. Well, that's the last one. I totally agree, Adam Ivanovich, with you. Everything's great, but we already agree that the local manufacturer. We're talking about the church, we're talking about, I don't know, the name of the ministries. Colleagues, let's talk in real trouble! I therefore propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, registration number 3569, on the adoption of the bill on the basis of the first reading. [[about mobile phone duties]] Please vote. [[16:52:45.]] For 118 The decision is not taken. The bill is being rejected. Please, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u49	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Today at the morning meeting, I said that last Tuesday after a busy job, we had just stopped at the bills related to the land. And I suggested that we look at them, because today it turns out that ten others are more important and mobile phones and tariffs are more important. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin promised to do so. I ask that we now consider the laws of 3006 and then the other ones that relate to the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Indeed, that was the offer. I'm betting on the definition of the hall. There is a suggestion that we speed up the review and now consider earth - related issues. Please vote. [[16:54:16]] For-162 We'll go the way we go. You don't need the factions, it won't do anything. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on customs duties on potatoes]] Registration number 3740. At the request of the author, Catherinechuk proposes that he be removed. That's what we do if there's no objection. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking. [[on branches of foreign banks]] Registration number 3561. Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. Report by Nazbank's deputy head, Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u51	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act is prepared by the National Bank of Ukraine for the purpose of legal settlement of the issue of granting foreign banks the right to open a branch in Ukraine and to carry out such banking activities. In fact, there were two basic reasons for working on the bill. The first is a legal basis, although today it is very unpopular in this room. I saw it when I obeyed the textile tax law. I have to remind her. We made a commitment, like Ukraine, when we ratified the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on 10 November 1994 that we would make one order of access to each other’s markets. Secondly, this is once again a situation related to the accession to the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organization. If the first case was taken in 1994, in the second case the decision was already taken by Parliament in November 2002, where we had adopted among others a list of bills that would first be considered in this room in order to organize our legislation. But much more important, I think, is the economic basis for adopting such a law. Unfortunately, we have to admit that today the banking system of Ukraine is unable to generate sufficient credit for our economy. A resource that would be acceptable to the economy at its price and at its length, so to speak. That's why more and more of our businesses are being forced to go to external markets today and look for such a resource in the West. But much closer it would be in the case of how it formed here in Ukraine. Of course, today we have the opportunity to work through the children’s Ukrainian banks. There are seven such banks in Ukraine today. The process of their work in Ukraine makes it very difficult for large banks to work. And as world practice shows, in principle, this model is being implemented: first comes the branch, and then the daughter bank is being created. That's why we decided to work on such a bill. In working on it, the main question that came to us was how to make sure that the branches of solid banks came here, not the branches of small banks, let's say, our neighbors. To that end, we have foreseen a number of limitations in the bill that I want to pay particular attention to. Well, the first is that only such a mother bank can come here, whose capital will be at least 100 million euros, that is, solid, well-known transparent banks. Secondly, we have introduced mandatory restrictions, the essence of which is that we will allow only banks from those countries with which we have agreements on legal support and recognition of decisions of the courts of Ukraine and with those with which we have an agreement to exercise joint banking supervision. And finally, the last. We proposed in article 24 that the National Bank should be able to introduce specialities in the registration and further activities of such branches so that, if dictated by appropriate market conditions, it would impose certain restrictions on the operation of branches of foreign banks. We believe that this option is the most compromising combination that is possible today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u52	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. You've been convincingly agitating us. I think so. Have a seat, please. From the committee first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u53	Dear National Deputies! You know, of course, it's not allowed in Ukraine to actually open branches of foreign banks right now. And that's why foreign banks work in the Ukrainian financial, in the Ukrainian banking market because of the legal persons they create as residents. And these legal persons are residents of Ukraine. Of course, such a process really complicates the actual penetration of foreign banks into this sector of the economy, into this financial sector in our country. And I want to remind you that this law actually arose on the basis of the commitments that Ukraine made ten years ago. Ten years ago, we made a commitment during the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement between Ukraine and the EU that we would create such conditions for foreign companies, meaning foreign banks that would be no worse than the work of their own companies, Ukrainian companies. Thus, this commitment has actually resulted in this bill, which is available for your consideration. Of course it is, and we understand it wonderfully, that it strengthens competition in the banking market in our country, which is probably not bad for consumers of these services for companies that use banking services, because they will probably then have a wider choice, to which bank or branch of the bank can be approached and on what conditions can be obtained credit and other banking services. During the discussion of this bill and its consideration on the committee, there were some warnings, including from the Association of Ukrainian Banks, which were concerned that banks that are questionable and whose operations are questionable might fall into our market. So in order to avoid, to avoid these warnings, in fact, what Mr. Schlapak has just said has been made so many suggestions that banks will be. branches of banks that will register here, that these banks have collaborated with the FATF money-laundering organization and that the statutory capital of the mother banks is at least 100 million euros, which of course limits access to the market of small, questionable banks. In view of this, the committee has considered this issue and proposes to adopt the bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u55	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I express my deep surprise that the bill that we are currently considering amending a number of laws relating to banks and banking is being considered without and in isolation from Law 3575, which was also proposed by the National Bank of Ukraine, to amend the Banking and Banking Act. Believe me, it's better to look at all the changes once and in a complex way to solve the question than what we're now offered: first one and then the other. Both the bills are being proposed by the National Bank. So I didn't understand why Mr. Schlapak represents one today, one doesn't speak of the other. And why is that the case today? The idea is that the bill proposes to amend the laws on external economic activity, on corporate income taxation, on the fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons, on the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control, and finally on banks and banking. So a whole set of laws is being amended and I would like them to be integrated. And here, Adam Ivanovich, I've been stressing this all along, that it's inappropriate preparation for meetings, it's not scientific preparation, it's a waste of Parliament's working time. No wonder Mr. Schlapak would be when he compared it to a myth, with a reduction in the duty on potatoes that we didn't look at the project, but we had to look at or reduce the duty on silk and cloth, and so on. I'll tell you that I'll be behind this bill in the first reading. Why? Because this bill foresees that there will be competition between banks, there will be lower bank rates, it will be easier for people to take loans, and it will be serious banks that will come, because there is a statutory capital requirement here that opens up its branch at least 100 million euros. And in addition, they will be registered in countries that work together in the area against the legalization of money acquired criminally with a group that develops financial measures to fight the laundering of FATF money. So, honourable national MPs, I speak for my first reading, I have a lot of observations about each of these laws that I have. And bring up Law 3575 to finish these bills at the same time, that's to draw up the one that will be considered in the first reading, on the second reading of this, because you just can't look at the bill in different ways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u56	Thank you. Please, Solomon. Get ready for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u57	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, are we going to the EU where we are not expected for another 20 years? This was the subject of an international scientific and practical conference that took place at the end of February and where there was a very large representation of both our government and the national deputies of Ukraine, but, above all, a foreign bombondu, and this conference was celebrated by Mrs. Madeleine Albright, and the Ambassador of the United States, and the Federal Republic of Germany, and so on. but the general conclusion of this conference: Europe, if it is in this European Union, is more than 20 years from now. So our factions don't think this bill is in time. This determines, if you adopt such a bill, that you put the wire in front of that horse that is going to the European Union. That's the first thing I wanted to say. The other one. Of course, this bill creates conditions for the intrusion of branches of foreign banks, that is, creating a competitive environment with local banks. Have even the banks we have become so strong that they are capitalist, of course, by their origins, that they can create conditions for such competition in this environment? That's a question for you, first of all, comrade capitalists. You also deal with this question: is it appropriate to do so in conditions in which the bourgeois state of Ukraine is now present? Are you pushing even the modest opportunities that exist in the capitalist competitive environment of Ukraine just before it is to humiliate and degrade its own capitalist producers? And the last. Our faction discussed its view of the bill. Given what I've already said and what I'm running out of time for, I'd like to say the following. We can't support this bill, we won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u58	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. But you've had such a hard time calling the capitalists friends. Yes, please, Chernowitz. I can't see. Then please, Baranowski. Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I have a legitimate question. What is the need for the discovery, not of foreign banks in Ukraine today, but of their own branches? Are our banks no longer coping with the work that has been done? When some talk about additional credit resources coming in, there is no problem with banking today. So something goes off. The capture took place in the energy complex of Ukraine. Pressure follows the capture of the gas transport system, the industry is already in the hands of foreign owners, science is working abroad through the grandiose, and it prepares its proper personnel there. Today we are offered, as I say, by the branches, not by banks, and I am also interested in the question of how many branches of Ukrainian banks work abroad. I'm surprised that this is an important issue, considering, we have absolutely no opinion of the National Bank of Ukraine. What does the National Bank think about this and its leader, Mr. Tihypco? How will this affect our financial banking system in Ukraine? How will the Ukrainian bracelet feel after that? Why do we decide things like that, as I would say, by putting Ukraine's financial banking system into the hands of foreign owners, I think I still have to give them mail and connections, and it's going to be a complete revolution in Ukraine. So I urge you, dear colleagues, to approach this with due caution. Because one thing when someone in Ukraine owns one enterprise or another, it's here, and the other thing is when banks start working and there's a flow of financial flows, you and I don't have proper control over our banks, and then how can we influence foreign branches? So let's think about it. Perhaps there is a point in accepting the first reading, though with great caution. I'd like to have the opinion of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u60	Thank you. Master, please. Stepan Ilkovich, I don't understand you. Aren't you writing down what you want? Before voting, if for reasons, you get the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u61	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of Ukraine, District 14. Dear colleagues! As head of the public debt and investment subcommittee, I would like to urge you today to vote in favour of this law. What are my arguments? First. Let's say that the World Trade Organization is our future, our future, and this is the position that we have to take. First. The other one. I think it's going to be difficult for today's banks that don't always last, say, internal competition, to withstand external competition. But you and I need to find out what we want. We want quality services or we want to preserve the situation. I'm going to insist that we still get quality services and create conditions for these high-quality services to continue to improve. Third. We talk about investment all the time. Why are we today if we don't consider that these are financial investments, and these are the investments that the whole world wants them to be. And so today, even convincing someone about it seems like a waste of time. But what moved me to come to this rostrum. I would like to inform you, honourable Members, of the situation that today relates to the position of government debt in Ukraine, directly linked to this law, including. Today, Ukraine’s government debt accounts for almost a quarter of the government budget. And that's already, I think, a certain national threat. If there is only $295 of government debt for one Ukrainian person today, it is $76,000 for one American. But consider that the U.S. government budget is only 6 percent of the burden of government debt. The country’s state budget has 24 percent of the expenditure per year. Note, too, that health care alone is worth only 2 billion dollars. And the government debt position is 12-14 billion dollars. So I think that the establishment of branches of foreign banks here is going to allow us to input the resource, on the one hand, because today our industry is rapidly developing and it's nice, it's now suffocating from a lack of resources. And on the other hand, we will certainly consider that foreign banks will necessarily pay taxes in the tax system and more, we will be able to involve them in the positions of government debt, thereby costing these expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. On the basis of the cloud vote, I will no longer give.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u63	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Fatherland Party, Stepan Cloud. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukrainian legislation allows children's banks, foreign banks, no problem. And if someone wants to convince us today that philanthropes will come that will bring us good, well, it's an illusion, it doesn't happen. We want to create an insane, unfair competitive environment to strangle our banks. That is the purpose of this lobbying law. And there's no way we can vote for him. Because this is not just in conflict with the interests of our national banks. This is contrary to national interests, Ukraine’s national security, particularly Ukraine’s financial security. I ask you to vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u64	Thank you, Stepan Ilkovich. Question completed. I'm betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, registration number 3561. [[on branches of foreign banks]] [[17:16:06]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 28, the Ukrainian regions - 57, the Communists - 0, the Ukrainian labour force - 41, the Social Democrats - 31, the People's Government - 17, the Socialists - 0, the Dominicans - 9, the Tymoshenko - 2, the Agrarian Party - 14, the People's Choice - 13, the NDP - 9, the non-fractional - 2. Let us turn to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy. [[on the specificities of the law in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Registration number 3145. Short-term procedure. Zimin Oleg Petrovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, on 5 May 1999, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Metal Breaking Act, which established the procedure for the operation of metal scraping enterprises. In accordance with this Act, as well as the Act on the licensing of certain activities for the purpose of the production, the processing of scrap metal by business entities should be licensed by the Ministry of Industrial Policy. Article 4, paragraph 3, of the Metal Breakdown Act provides that it is mandatory to obtain such a licence next time. There is an act of survey by local public administrations. However, under article 1 of the Act on Local Government Administrations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local administrations are only established in areas. Under these conditions, it is unclear which body may carry out a survey of enterprises in Simferopol and other cities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In view of such circumstances, it is proposed that the bill clarify the body which would provide for acts of survey of territories that are not subject to the authority of the State administrations of the districts. It is proposed that this body in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will be the Council of Ministers. The bill also provides for the possibility of delegation of these powers by the relevant Council. This will enable business operators to work in the Crimea to be normalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u66	Thank you. Please report to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Mr. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u67	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues! So with regard to this bill, literally a few words: you remember that when we passed the scrap metal bill, we created a certain structure of control over what was going on in the country in terms of collecting and reprocessing scrap metal. Thus, in order to obtain a licence, we have beaten the article that an act of survey is required under article 4, part three, of the bill. However, there has indeed been a conflict, as if a failure: in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea we do not have autonomous divisions, administrative divisions, i.e. we do not have district administrations. Therefore, in order to remove this, we have instructed that, on the basis of the changes made, these acts should be carried out by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, or at their discretion they may delegate these rights to the relevant councils, local councils. So we're removing this gap, that's purely technical. There is a proposal to vote on first reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u68	Thank you. Let's listen to these suggestions. No one insists on discussing it? Then, dear colleagues, I put to the vote a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, registration number 3145. [[on the characteristics of the act of law in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Votes in the first reading. [[17:20:46]] For 242 The bill was adopted in the first reading. There were suggestions to accept the whole thing. Is there a denial? There is a denial, then the bill was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, registration number 4173-1. The authors and the committee are asking for a transfer. Does no one insist on looking? Thank you. There is a question of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine, here are 2 bills, registration numbers - 4346, 4346-1. The bill is being considered by a reduced procedure. Yes. Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko reports. Please. Then Stanishki Hennaday Stanislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u69	Respectable national MPs, the profitable work of the Ukrainian judicial industry depends on several components, the efficient operation of shipbuilding ports, and the repair of their own fleets. So my bill proposes to distribute state support to the shipbuilding industry not only for shipbuilding, but also for the construction and reconstruction of shipyards, port facilities, and hydropower. The draft law is proposed to allow for compliance with environmental requirements, expansion of existing shipbuilding facilities, and construction of new shipyards, ports at the service centre. To this end, it is possible to use land in the coastal protection lane, to build, taking into account environmental requirements, and to harmonize projects with the environmental service: fortifying the shore, praying, piers, and docking facilities on water funds, and to do some other work on ports’ waterfronts. Considering that small craftsmanship is an integral part of the Ukrainian shipbuilding industry, the best option for public policy is to provide the most favourable regime for small craft. Today, the world market for yachts, boats, and other small vessels is overcrowded by motor and sailing vessels of various forms and purposes, and it is also directly filled in with new models of technology and design. And there is no need to give up this market to Ukrainian shipbuilders, where we have scientific, technical and human potential. I do not object to the decision of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to adopt Bill 4346, which will report to Gurenko, including the constructive proposals of my bill. The adoption of the bill will increase production volumes by tens of millions of dollars, additional revenue from the budget for further development of shipbuilding, and increased production volumes in the adjacent industries: metallurgy, engineering, and woodworking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! The bill that I'm introducing to you, it's not virtually an alternative, it's an accompaniment. The point is that the bills complement each other, and when adopted in the first reading, they're going to work together to eventually get into a single bill. The draft law provides for amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine through the continuation of the provisions of the Act by 2011. In particular, it is suggested that the basic rules of the Ukrainian law on State aid measures, non-contribution and exemption from tax on imported transactions, shipments of materials, equipment and kits used for the construction and repair of vessels and other means of navigation be extended to ship-building companies. Land tax exemption, protection. advance payments from uninterrupted write-offs, etc. In addition to the above, the bill provides for further additions to Ukraine’s basic law on shipbuilding. This is a permit to pay off the negative value of the tax facility during 20 calendar blocks, to reimburse the added value tax in the first order, to introduce a temporary import regime for sea or river transport equipment, vessels imported by non-residents for repair purposes, and equipment and equipment for installation on vessels of vessels for construction or repair. Planning annually in the Ukrainian State Budget Act for financial support for shipbuilding enterprises through a credit-supply mechanism. I would like to say that the practice of applying the current law has confirmed the effectiveness of the measures being taken in Ukraine to support the development of the shipbuilding industry. I would like to ask the honourable colleagues to support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. I think it will only be for the benefit of our Ukraine, which should take its place as a large shipbuilding state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Then there are those who want to sign up. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Both laws, which are absolutely not alternatives, are designed to develop their own industry. Both bills are designed to make whole regions, such as Mikolayevščina, Hersonščina, Odščina and even Kyivščina, because there is also a ship repair plant, develop in a different direction to increase the number of jobs. What is proposed? Failure to pay import duties and exemption from tax on added costs of operations and imports, transfer of materials, equipment, kits used for construction, repair of vessels and other means of navigation, exemption from land tax, protection of advance payments from uninterrupted write-offs, and so on. Let's think about it. I analyzed the ship and its cost in Korea is cheaper than we have. We analyzed why so and why our shipbuilding plants are standing. This is because Koreans are interested in being cheaper than their neighbors are Japanese. That's why. And we have to do everything here now, even deamp when it comes to it. But it's not a dumping condition yet, it's just the conditions that are conducive to the development of whole sectors that will bring about a rise in Ukraine's economy as a whole. We're talking about the big losses we're going to have. I'll tell you that, honourable national deputies, there will be no major budget losses. And in order to comply with all the budget rules, in order to comply with all the rules of the budget code, I propose that we do so in a way that the entry into force of the law must be reasonably foreseen. But the fact that the budget is to be filled solely on the basis of our jobs and our output is absolutely good. And you know, maybe then it won't be humiliating to read and hear that that flagman who made the bet is 98 percent already done, and now we want to sell with the same name as Ukraine. You know, I don't think it's a smart decision, absolutely uncertain, because the naval forces of Ukraine are made up of semi-crust marine vessels that have come from the Soviet Union. I think we need to complete the ship and let it be the first normal ship in our country. I am only in the first reading for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u74	Please, Solomon, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u75	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, mainly those who work at the shipyards and are now awaiting the attitude of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact this law. I want to say that our faction has thoroughly discussed this bill and has unanimously decided on the adoption of this law. We certainly support the extension of the law until 2011, that's the first. And the second. We're here to create even more favourable conditions not only for shipbuilding, but also for repairing vessels and not only those that are produced and that work for us in Ukraine, but also those that have to be imported from abroad for repair on our shipyards. So I also want to say that our faction will vote in favour of this bill. And I call upon all the factions and all those present in this room to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u76	Thank you. Please, Verni Dubov. Then from the Anatoly Frost Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u77	Verni Dubov, Sevastopol. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, Ukraine is not yet in a position to ensure national ownership of the credit conditions that operate in world practice, the provision of government orders, financial support for the modernization of shipyards, budgetary financing, research and development. But Ukraine, as a judicial power, has already been able to provide the shipbuilding industry with the minimum necessary level of support, as expressed in the adoption of the Act on State Support Measures for the Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine. In the Sevastopol region, whose electorate I have the honour to represent in the Supreme Council, the above-mentioned law directly extends to eight enterprises that constitute the pillars of the real economy of the city, including the Sebastopol Sea Plant, the Black Seas CEB, the Era and others. Over the past four years, the law has allowed these enterprises to be removed from a deep crisis, in a number of cases preventing full production and creating conditions for a gradual transition from survival tactics to development strategies. The effectiveness of legislative support measures is characterized by statistics: production has tripled, payroll has been completely eliminated, 657 jobs have been created, average wages have increased more than twice and other indicators that I will not call them. There is no backlog in the implementation of the debt-restructuring commitments in Gosbudget. The issues discussed by law were a question of the fate of construction in Ukraine, and there was only one reasonable answer in the development policy of one of the most complex industries. In this case, the interests of the electorate of the region and the States are fully consistent. I call on you, my dear colleagues, to support the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments, Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on State Support Measures for the Shipbuilding Industry. Thank you for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u78	Thank you. Please, from the Anatoly Ice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! We have before us the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Shipbuilding Industry of Ukraine and the draft law on registration number 4346-1, which corresponds to the general concept of project 4346 and complements it with appropriate proposals. [[Registration number 4346]] The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the draft laws, supported them and decided to propose to the Supreme Council a draft law to be adopted on a basis, and to take into account the individual provisions of the draft law in the drafting of Bill 4346. [[Registration number 4346]] [[registration number 4346-1]] The provisions of Project 4346 reflect the position of part one of the first article and all the provisions of the article of the second law in force and lengthen their operation for the next seven years, that is, until 2012. In keeping with this mode of operation of the shipbuilding industry, a cautious forecast shows a gradual output in 2012 of about two billion dollars and annual budget revenues of up to 250-280 million dollars. The bill aims to ensure the uniformity of the distribution of tax liabilities and the reproduction and replenishment of the commercial costs of shipbuilding enterprises during the technological cycles of shipbuilding that will contribute to the stability of the dynamics, the increase in production, and the need for budget funding. An increase in the deadline is proposed, the return of the foreign exchange for shipbuilding. This is more so than the existing standards, taking into account the technological characteristics of shipbuilding and the procedures for the transfer of various vessels and floating structures to the customers. The adoption of the proposed bill will strengthen positive trends in domestic shipbuilding industry, restore its position in the global shipbuilding market, achieve a full-scale impact and impact on the country's economic growth, increase employment, and increase the population's well-being. So once again, I stress that the Committee of Industrial Policy and Enterprise asks for the support of the Committee's decision, and for the adoption of Decree 4346-P as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u80	Thank you. For the reasons of the vote, Seminouk and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u81	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, yesterday at a meeting of the Special Monitoring Commission, the bill was supported. I want to say that the Socialist Party of Ukraine also supports this bill, especially because it will allow for the employment of the shipbuilders of Mikolayev, Herson. I've got Nikolaynko behind me, he can confirm it -- it's his constituency. Today, we use only 10 percent of the 30 million tons of metal produced for shipbuilding -- that means that we're going to be able to earn both the metallurgy and our employees today. So what I'm asking you not to do is to get our industry into ship repair, shipbuilding bankruptcy, and that's what you were looking at at yesterday at the Special Monitoring Commission. Let me support these two bills that will help our shipbuilders today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll vote. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine. The committee proposes to adopt Bill 4346, Bill 4346-1. Include it in the second reading. We are voting on Bill 4346. Based on the base. [[17:39:50]] For 374 Decision taken. Once again, there is a proposal to accept as a basis, and we have voted with you, Bill 4346, and Bill 4346-1 to take into account in the final work. That is why we will not rush into the second. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes. The question is: the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code. [[on the conversion of land]] We have bills for 3006, 3372, 4050, 4050-1, 4050-2. The question will be dealt with by a simplified procedure. Please, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Leszczenko Volodymir Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u83	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, I will report from the team of authors. Today we have a decision to make to the people of Ukraine: whether to turn the land into a commodity and thus legitimize the process of taking it into peasants or leave it to those who live and work on it to grow produce. We Communists are firmly opposed to trade in land, and we will do our utmost to ensure that the land is always owned and used by peasants. The Constitution clearly states: "The land, nadra, air and water are property of the Ukrainian people." The whole nation, not just today, but always. A person who lives today, who will be born 50 years later, and 100 years later, has the right to the earth. By turning the earth into a commodity, it will be immediately bought by wicked plots that have accumulated money by various schemes. Examples before us: privatization of state property. And where it is, you know. The same will be true of the earth, the same cunning approach, the same equal conditions. Each patriot of our land, our people, understands that trading in the earth, that is, taking it into the peasants, is a gross sin. It was always understood by the progressive people of any country and any era. I'm going to take a look at this question from a world-class writer, Lviv Mikolaiovich Tolstoy, in the novel "Resurrection": "Can't land be a property, can't be an object of purchase and sale as water, like air, like the rays of the sun. They all have the same right to land and all the advantages it gives to people." And there's more. "The earth cannot be sold or bought, for if it can be sold, those who have money will buy it all and then take it from those who do not have land that they desire for the use of the land. I will take the lambs for what you are standing on the earth." As a genius looked at the water and saw us in 2004. But under the pressure of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank of Ukraine in the last 10 years, we have been confined to committing a huge crime in front of our own people -- taking away their land. Destroyed are the most effective collective. Awe - inspiring forms of farming, ruined animal farms, tractor states, the earth has grown weeds, and so forth. Ukrainian National Deputies Tkachenko, Parubko, Lechchenko propose in this bill to exclude from articles 28, 81, 82, 90 of the Ukrainian Land Code the rule on the acquisition of ownership of land for agricultural purposes through its sale and to exclude entirely Article 130, as defined by the purchasers of land for agricultural purposes. The bill also amends paragraphs 13 and 15 of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Please support the people’s deputies so that they do not take sin upon themselves. So it wouldn't be like Shevchenka's: "The village was burning like people had gone crazy. Nimahs go to the brim and take their little ones." Thank you for your attention. Is it possible to proceed, Adam Ivanovich? Dear Adam Ivanovich, this bill covers the whole problem. I would suggest, if you could, that we discuss it separately and vote it out, because if it's adopted, all the other bills that stand there are meaningless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u84	Thank you. We have everything in common. We will make a wise decision. He will report on his draft, Mathvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u85	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues! I think we should start with our information or our analysis report. Or the situation in the country. The lack of time, unfortunately, does not allow this to happen. Therefore, those who are actively engaged in the village today know the situation there today and the reason for the adoption of the law. I also did not want this bill to have any political support, and I would like to throw it aside, focus on the points that prompted us today, along with Ekaterina Vaszuk, a number of other MPs, to draft this bill and bring it to the hall. What's the reason? Land dispersion has not been completed to date. In some regions, this process has been implemented by 20 per cent, in some 60 per cent. A maximum of 60 per cent. This prompted us, literally, three days ago, to adopt a bill extending the process until 1 January 2008. Questions in this direction of the mind. Today, courts are literally dead in cases that cannot simply register them, where the issue of the allocation of rations, the recognition, the non-recognition of KSPs, the distribution of land borders and so on is not allowed. Today, the courts, once again, are literally beaten and unable to overcome this work. Second moment. You and I have not legally resolved all matters in order to establish the land market today. We are not ready or ready to address this issue. That is, the Land Market Act we have hardly seen in our eyes, and since 2005, we have to start selling land. We didn't see the Mortgage Bank Act, it wasn't there, and we didn't see what it looked like or how it would be. The issue of inseparable improvements in rental groups is not resolved. So if a normal tenant takes the land, we haven't solved the issue of inseparable improvements, he's in very difficult conditions. If we were to conclude under this paragraph, we could say that we had not adopted about twenty other legal and sub-legal acts. How can we today include a mechanism for the sale of land if we have not resolved this mechanism by law? Next. We have a mass of unresolved, seemingly small, seemingly, issues and problems, but they are indeed very serious. This is an industrial land problem. Today, enterprises have been privatized. Many bought and paid certain amounts. But what about the earth? Let's say that the land under the metal combination in the area that exists, according to the estimated data determined by the committee today, should be worth up to 2 billion bracelets. Are the owners able to pay for these lands today, so to speak? This fate awaits any industrial enterprises that have been privatized. And there are a number of other legislative points, unfortunately there is no time to talk about them. What does our bill propose? So he proposes, first, the right of ownership of a plot of up to 100 hectares to postpone until 1.01.2015, to impose a moratorium on the sale of land until 1 January 2010. But it's not dogma. We are talking about how let's take this bill on first reading, sit down with the Committee on Earth Resources, sit down with the State Committee and determine how long we should consider this matter. On the basis of the programme we will set out, we will already have to make a final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u86	National MP Mikola Rudkowski according to his bill. Is there a Rudzkowski? None. Vasjunik Ivan Vasilovich. Is there a Ivan Vasilovich? Please. Prepare Peter Simonck.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u87	Ivan Vasilik, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the bill that you are proposing, supported by the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations on February 4. The fundamental difference in our bill is two. First, we suggest that we continue the moratorium on the sale of land for two years. The other one. Extend the operation of this moratorium. as one of the illegal ways of buying up rural land. Dear colleagues, Ukraine is not ready to sell land, and this should be counted as an objective reality. I don't know any arguments in favour of abolishing the moratorium except the possible one: the land can be bought easily and quickly in disadvantaged peasants. A direct study of the situation confirms that peasants are now afraid to even think about the sale of land, even more so because in front of the unknown and fear of getting rid of the latter, and behind the shoulders is the practice of certification privatization, where the redistribution of national wealth has been made at the expense of the majority for the benefit of the minority. I'll go to a few arguments in favor of the bill. The first argument, the experience of industrial privatization, has shown that the State must carry out long-term, enlightening activities to inform citizens about their rights and obligations, as well as risks or benefits in the process of buying and selling. This is all the more so with the rural population, which is notoriously cut off from the national information space. We don't even have that kind of program in the state ten months before we sell it. The second argument. Only seven were adopted on February 1st of the 38 bills that were to be approved by the Supreme Council under the Earth Code. The implementation of the Earth Code is critical. The legislative field on land sales remains premeditated. And we think that two years is the optimal time when this legislative field can be brought into order. And the third argument. The process of issuing acts is incomplete, which means that we are putting our citizens, those who have received them under unequal conditions and those who have not received them. And to complete the two short lines. First. Selling land is not an end in itself, it's one of the tools for shaping effective agriculture. Without the full readiness of her authority and her people, this cannot begin. This is the land, not even the sale of industrial objects, but even more so. Yesterday he canceled the VAT and today he turned back. And the second. The earth for its people is a great policy. But this archival problem to convince the faction should not be subject to controversy and politics. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" proposes after the adoption of the project in the first reading ready for a dialogue, both by content and by extension of the drafters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u88	Vladimir Leschchenko, please, under bill 4050-2. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u89	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I suggested that Bill 3006 be considered separately. And if it were voted, then it wouldn't make sense to look at the ones that we're looking at right now. But once that decision is made, I'll report on the bill 4050-2. [[authors: Simonenko, Leschenko, Tkachenko, Male]] I think we don't need to trade land in the sales process. This is all the more so with the rural population, which is notoriously cut off from the national information space. We don't even have that kind of program in the state ten months before we sell it. The second argument. Only seven were adopted on February 1st of the 38 bills to be approved by the Supreme Council under the Earth Code. The implementation of the Earth Code is critical. The legislative field on land sales remains premeditated. And we think that two years is the optimal time when this legislative field can be brought into order. And the third argument. The process of issuing acts is incomplete, which means that we are putting our citizens, those who have received them under unequal conditions and those who have not received them. And to complete the two short lines. First. Selling land is not an end in itself, it's one of the tools for shaping effective agriculture. Without the full readiness of her authority and her people, this cannot begin. This is the land, not even the sale of industrial objects, but even more so. Yesterday he canceled the VAT and today he turned back. And the second. The earth for its people is a great policy. But this archival problem to convince the faction should not be subject to controversy and politics. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" proposes after the adoption of the project in the first reading ready for a dialogue, both by content and by extension of the drafters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u90	Vladimir Leschchenko, please, under bill 4050-2. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u91	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I suggested that Bill 3006 be considered separately. And if it were voted, then it wouldn't make sense to look at the ones that we're looking at right now. But once that decision is made, I'll report on the bill 4050-2. [[authors: Simonenko, Leschenko, Tkachenko, Male]] I don't think we should trade the land in any way. Furthermore, Ukraine is not ready to do so today. From a technical point of view, only 50 percent of government acts are now being issued to our peasants. Economics: Whoever has the money will buy it. Legally, there's not a number of laws that regulate this issue. And from the moral state of society: we have criminality, dirty money, shadow economy. There's President Kuchma fighting this corruption and he won't fight it. It takes time. Let's take a council in society with his morals, and we'll push this criminality out. The black earth needs to be taken with clean hands. We need a moratorium by 2015. Take your time. Who's driving us where? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u92	Rudzikowski according to his bill. Mikola Rudzkowski, we missed him. Then from the committee Ivan Fedorovich Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a strategically important issue for the fate of our Ukraine and our village. Today, the question is whether the land will be accumulated in 2005 by oligarchs and foreigners, whether we will make a decision today and guarantee the opportunity for Ukrainians to own their land. So, in its time when the Earth Code was extended, and it was extended by the President's Administration, along with the right parties, who are now going out to the rostrum and pouring "crocodil tears," they have to draw conclusions and always stand in the interests of national and national. And in the interests of his people. And that's why we, the socialists, think that we need to cancel the previous Earth Code as one that has no right to life but has been falsified. Secondly, it is necessary to make the only right decision and prohibit the privatization of agricultural land by allowing rent and so on. My bill, given that half of these people are sitting here who don't support state property on land, but they're offering to postpone it for a while, a little later. Socialists propose to postpone land privatization for another 5 years until 2010 and thus provide a chance for Ukrainians to be farmers on their land. Until the state gives at least 5 billion dollars per year to the village to raise land processing, to agricultural technology, to chemicals, and so forth, the village will not be able to raise the price of land until then, it will be cheap, it will be bought for a penny. Half the land is not being processed at all. And so if you ask the question, what is the price of this land? The shores are now about four feet [4 m] long. This land will cost nothing, but it is a priceless treasure that belongs to our people and our generations. China leases land for 50 years, Poles do not allow the land to be privatized to foreigners, we have written in our code so that everyone can buy it, but the land owners will not be Ukrainians. And so I propose to vote in favour of all the bills that have been tabled on the moratorium on land privatization and to all those who voted in favour of the Criminal Code to repent, or vote in favour of the Earth Code, and not to do so again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u94	Thank you. Thank you. Ivan Fedorovich Tomic from the committee, please. It's the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is no exaggeration on the question of what to be Ukraine today. Or civilized, highly developed, European. Or bend over to the Latin American Choice. It's a matter of foundation, a question of the earth. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting discussed carefully for two and a half hours the issues raised for today’s meeting. And the committee's decision is to support bill number 4050-1. The question is: Why? Because, first of all, only a strong private owner in a Ukrainian village with balanced policies will be able to revive the Ukrainian village, improve the socio-economic situation not only in the Ukrainian village, but also in the economy as a whole. To do so, it is clear that a term is needed. This is a minimum term for two years to work both on the legislative base and on the mechanisms for implementing the legislative framework. This is, above all, today's language, and we have experience, to move to the land market, a person specifically in the area should have a land plot, and only half of these land areas have been given to our citizens today. And the issuance of state acts has been going on for more than three years. Will we be able to publish as in two years? No, of course not. Today, an extremely important instrument of state policy is a state-owned mortgage bank, which is foreseen by the Earth Code. And to this day the government has not yet passed such a bill, and for four years there has been talk about the formation of such a bank. I think a minimum term, and a lot of national MPs, scientists, experts support it, takes at least two years to form such a structure. Today, the implementation of the Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State Municipal Property, today the settlement of the issue of five million degraded lands and low-efficiency land, is a matter of land market regulation. And last of all, most important. No country in the history of the world has moved to the land market in a crisis socio-economic situation. There is a Ukrainian village in such a crisis today, where more than 70 percent of agricultural enterprises are bankrupt, where farmers earn 2.5 times less wages, on average in the national economy. In the 1930s, the United States. on the reduction of bankruptcy in their farms. I think today is a crime since January 1, 2005, to launch the land market. Not only do I speak as a national deputy but I speak on behalf of farmers who have recently met at their next assembly. Let us be wise, considerate, and approach a responsible decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u96	Thank you. Yes, we'll continue the discussion. John the Rabbit. I mean, 2 goes for, we need 2 goes against. Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u97	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I support the extension of the moratorium on land sales. What are some reasons for this? First. Our Ukrainian authorities did not prepare the earth to become a commodity in the fullest sense of the word. You know, we haven't created a complete package of legislation that would bring about the process of selling land for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian people and for the sake of ecology. The one who wanted to stop the process of privatizing the land because of the non-legislature they had just born this problem because the right to privatize the land was constitutional, so it went away -- this privatization by dark, mafia schemes and one of the mechanisms -- is a mine that allows today to acquire the right to private land. [[And these are the left parties. That's me and Mr. Rudzkowski.]] Therefore, it is important not to weep about the right parties but to talk about the need to create appropriate legislation. Igor Raffailovich Yukhnovsky repeatedly spoke from this rostrum and said, "Dear friends, let's prepare, let's create a land-use society, because when the land passes, we need to get it into the hands of a man who will work and who will work effectively. No one supported these proposals, no government, no government in this room. Another reason. The property for portions of the pies is not properly formed. Today, Matthew and others have talked about this, that half of these certificates are not, in fact, converted to State-owned land. How can we start a trading mechanism on the ground? Then the question is in another plane. And finally, maybe we should ask someone why the land is not being privatized in a legal way, why we're not creating enterprises today that are highly efficient, why is it that the land today is not in the hands of those who are processing it, why are farmers being blocked today, why are they not being given techniques, don't give them credit, don't give them seed materials? That's what we need to talk about today. So I would like to hear the government say how it has implemented the Earth Code for the last two years as it does today. And make the most decisive decision on the responsibility of the government, because today you can't be like an ostrich: you put your head in the sand and nothing happens around you. Privatization is taking place today, not in a legal way, but in an illegal way, and because we take this problem irresponsiblely, we don't respect peasants. So I urge you to support the operation of this moratorium, specifically, to determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u98	Thank you. National Deputy Odaynik, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski. Here comes the discussion, the lines at the end, after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u99	Mikola Odynik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity," Winnkin. Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Good day to you all. And I think there are passions, because, in my opinion, more important questions, the question of the earth is not and cannot be, because the earth is independence, the earth is the future of our children, and the future of our other generations, our great-grandchildren. And today, if we give permission to sell land since 2005, and I want to say, "we," if we give the same people who gave permission to sell factories and factories, we'll see what's happening with factories and factories today, the same thing will happen with the land. But we will rebuild the factories, and the earth will never be restored. Of course, now, even challenges have come and started to say that the earth around the world is a negotiable resource, that is, it is in circulation. It is virtually impossible to accept this. Why? Because this is the case all over the world, but please tell me, what is one small state, a small country, where they act on the laws, where they act on the Constitution, where they act on their own people? Please don't need a replica, please tell me how long three months before the day of laughter have reformed the farm complex and destroyed the property complex for billions of dollars. Take a look around all of this. Let's go back, we can scream, we can, I know that everyone has their own opinion, I'm expressing my opinion and I want to bring you all back to today's question. Let us see if our Ukraine is ready to start selling the land today? Of course not. Because it will be another pillaging of our peasant, who is now hungry, boss. Let us take away his land, take away his last hope. And what you said here is not Ukraine. You know, you can do a lot of politics here, but let's not talk about politics around the earth. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u100	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski is not. There's no incompetence. There's no nigger. Is there a master? Yes, the last speaker, Mastermaster, please. I'll be brief. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Masterskin, faction of Ukraine, constituency number 14. I wanted to talk to you about discussing this bill for the following reason. My personal district is here many majors are located in a rural area. And no meeting of mine ends with the question, "What's going to happen to the village?" My position. The village needs support. In what way? If we have embarked on reform, let us finish it. Let's get her to the end. Now, please, I didn't interrupt you, let me tell you. What do we have today? Today we have a situation where some of the land is owned. Today, contracts are signed for 49 years. And I actually came to my father once and I'm looking at two bags of grain. What is it? "It's a fee, son, for pie in a year." Is that right? That's not right. What must we do today, and what does the village suffer today? The village suffers from the lack of funds, expenses under its feet. Today, 80, 70 percent of the land is owned by de jure, and others actually own it. Those over sixty. Give today the opportunity to raise the price of the land, and perhaps one of the pensioners will receive at least some real money for it. The other one. Let us not forget that investment in the village today does not go, and it is evident that it will not come soon. And that's probably another argument that didn't sound in this room. Ukraine now takes second place in Europe on the possibility of transit transport. Why is transit transportation not so popular today, and how are there realities? Yes, because the earth is a nobody today, and there is really no one to talk to today. We need to build car washes today, that's hundreds of thousands of jobs. And I'm asking you, my position and the faction of the Regions were also discussing it today. Let's set stricter lines for a moratorium. We support what a moratorium can be introduced, but it should not be an endless period. It can't be 10-15 years, it has to be a year as an example, and set a time limit, and set itself a standard during this period to introduce all the legislative, to resolve all the legislative problems that are in the country today. And let's not leave this room until we resolve this problem. Or we'll all go to the village, and we'll talk in a different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u102	All, dear fellows, the speeches are over. The replica. The motives of Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky and Chubarov. Yukhnovsky. The reply will then be, in the end, respected colleagues. All of it. Very briefly, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u103	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I want to say that the Analytical Advisory Council has long worked on land policy, and it has been submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers and has not been used. But I want to tell you all what the price of the land will be. So the price of land is equal to the absolute and differential rent divided by the bank interest. If the land is uninhabited, the absolute rent is equal to 3 cents, the bank interest is 20 percent, and the cost of the land is going to be 15 cents of grain in Ukraine. And no one can be against it. So the problem of creating land-based societies that will run the land market and monitor the land market in the country is a priority before any laws on the land market are passed. So for the time being, I believe that a moratorium is essential for at least two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u104	Thank you. Rephat Chubarov. Dear colleagues, we won't be able to make a decision now. There's no need for agitation anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u105	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The scariest thing that happened during the decommissioning of the agricultural land is that in carrying out the land reform of the peasants, I emphasize, the peasants were divided into two camps: those who received the pies and those who didn't get them. But they all live together — doctors, teachers, pensioners, returnees, and so on. Thus, the moratorium must be so long as we do not find or find fair ways to allocate land to all those living in rural areas in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u106	Just a minute. Anatoly Frost, and we'll vote. Well, the replica after. It's not a replica, it's not your motive! It's from the motives, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u107	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Really, you don’t want to, you mention the saying, “If anyone shouts, hold the thief, hold the one who shouts. ” You see, we all remember the length of this earthly codex in this room, the length of other laws. And today the most on the rostrum, the most sound. [[I'm not gonna call it a last name right now, because.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u108	Is that a vote or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u109	I urge everyone to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u110	May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I'm putting in order for the registration to come. The first is the draft of the National Deputies of Tkachenka, Parubka, Lechchenka, registration number 3006, to be adopted on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code. 306. [[18:13:44]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft number 3372, the authors: Matvienkov, Vaszuk, for adoption as the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Earth Code. 3372. Please vote. [[18:14:17]] For 299 There is no need for further voting. Yes. I'm Za. The factions, please. This was a replica called Rudzkowski’s name, a replica. Well, then, well, then Tomenko. I understand, well, I can't do everything right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u111	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to answer to John the Rabbit, he mentioned my last name. So the reform, the agrarian reform, initiated by Leonid Danilovich Kuchma and consecrated by the Agrarian Codex, which was extended by Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk by the votes of the poor reformers, led to the total collapse of agriculture. The village is dying, and in this situation someone wants to make political dividends.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u112	Give me a break. The projects will. So, what? Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u113	We have to do everything we can to support the village and turn to the President to sign this passed law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u114	The replica. Here he said others answered. That's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u115	And no dividends.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u116	Tomenko, please, everything. Microphone, please. Tomenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, as we have agreed, I propose that we support Decree 4275 on ensuring the unhindered activities of the media, which provides for the halting of all facilities in 2004. The State Television and Radio Committee will support this. Officially, the government supports this. And I'd like us and most of us today who say that it protects the media, supports us, and votes in favour of the "Stop Press Checks" Ordinance after which.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u118	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u119	A paramedic or a fireman closes the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-04-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the committee's proposal. "On the adoption of the entire draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of unhindered media media activities during the 2004 pre-election period." Registration number 4275. Please vote. [[18:16:58]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will work according to Friday’s schedule. Ten o'clock at the beginning of work. Thanks for the job.
