ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:57]] A total of 429 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Karnauha Mikli Vasilovich, Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, who was 40 years old, and Pinchuk Viktor Mikhailovich. Let us welcome our colleagues, wish them health, inspiration, and success in political and social activities. Dear colleagues, I'd like to hear the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Powlonsky Mihajlovich of the political party "Trudova Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Chikal Adam Vasilovich, from the MP's political party "Trudova Ukraine". But about the entry of Ukrainian national deputies, Løvina Anatoli Ivanovich, National Deputy Akopian, as part of the Ukrainian National Agrarian Party. Dear National Deputies, the Conciliation Board of Deputies and factions have been appointed on the schedule of meetings for the plenary week of December 14-17. A list of questions is given to you. Please register, your honors, your motives and your procedure, let's exchange our thoughts. Five minutes. Please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The order of the day is quite tense. But it seems to me that it does not reflect certain aspects of our political life, including the restoration of Attorney General Piscoon. The appointment of the prosecutor is the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so we can get to the fact that according to the court's decision, the first Attorney General of Ukraine will be reinstated. It seems to me that this should be the subject of consideration by the Supreme Council. The other one. If the Supreme Council makes any decisions, it should follow them up. Despite the so-called batch vote that took place at the end of last week in an off-season session, the Supreme Council's decision to resign the government is and should be implemented. The suggestion is to go back to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u3	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u4	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Grmira Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u5	Sergey Gmira, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u6	Thank you. The Communist faction believes it is necessary to immediately establish a commission of inquiry into the illegal financing of the U.S. government election campaign, Victor Yushchenko. You know, apparently in America, it's on the conveyor belt: yesterday was Ukraine, today is Romania, tomorrow will be Russia and Belarus. Same scenario, same slogans and colors and the same money. Let the Americans figure out for themselves whether it's legitimate what they're doing. But their financing of the Ukrainian political forces is totally contrary to the laws of Ukraine. Today, for American money, they are trying to resuscitate those forces that have shown their criminal insolence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u7	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u8	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine today discussed the issue of the day’s order actively. For us today, the most important issue is the 2005 budget, and we strongly insist that the social guarantees of our citizens are not reduced. First of all, we need to legislatively establish that the pension was not less than 284 bracelets, not like the government has made grants today, and there's nothing they can do for December, and for January. So we insist that this be on the legislative level, and at least 400 dollars on the other hand, the pension. So we suggest that if the budget is not accepted, December expenses be transferred to January, and that we save the situation. And one more thing. I'd like to take into account the speculations here in the United States: let's not frighten our children with Americans, we're the worst of Americans. And another thing is, I'm asking the heads of the colleges not to carry the session or break the election, as it goes in Kharkiv, because they want to announce it in Kharkiv on December 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u9	Yes, Leukko Lukyanenko, a faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u10	Lukyanenko, the faction of Julia Timoshenko Please pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u11	Alexander Turchinov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! As soon as the issue of funding rises, the faction of Communists becomes very nervous. Dear colleagues, if you're interested in American money, you can go to the U.S. Embassy, I think they'll go to your meeting. As for the problem that needs to be addressed today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that during the Conciliation Council there was a question about holding a session in the last week of this year. Unfortunately, we can see that this is not an issue in the order of the day. We invite you to consider it very much. Because we still have to solve the financing issue. First of all, the issue of financing social needs next year. Without a solution, we cannot go to a new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u13	Basil Nadrag, faction, the Union MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I think I will express the opinion of the majority of the room that the main theme of this week should be the consideration of the budget next year. Because if we do not accept the budget by 1 January, a number of social benefits are simply dependent, respectively. It's like paying teachers back for underpayments from 1997 to 2000, that's a 284, that's an equalization of pension benefits from former soldiers, that's support for agriculture and a number of other very relevant and important things. Therefore, on the basis of the situation that has arisen, I believe that we should focus primarily on the consideration of the 2005 draft budget this week. In terms of providing social benefits from the State budget, as well as addressing local budgeting. Because if we don't give local budgets some kind of introduction, they will, respectively, stop from 1 January. You can't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Time's up, all right, respectable colleagues. What line? Please, Simonenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u16	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radios, those of the people's deputies who are concerned about American interests, I would like to reiterate. We, the Communist faction, advocate national interests in protecting Ukrainian legislation, demand that the funds be verified and that American money be used for what purposes? Romania has become orange, Ukraine is also orange. And that, of course, requires a political assessment from us, that we have a fifth column in Ukraine for American interests. We have a group of politicians, the same financiers, bankers, funded certain structures to make Ukraine almost space to meet the strategic interests of Americans. The same PARE has already stated that we have done our job in Ukraine, and we are ready to move on to Belarus and Russia. That's what communists care about today and demand to investigate the use of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, here I have been approached, noted that we have disappeared from the Housing Minimum Act, and I ask the Secretariat to place on Thursday where we are considering in the chapter the laws and commitments of the President of Ukraine. With regard to the proposal by Alexander Turkinov regarding the holding of the session 27 to 31. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on Wednesday the committee will review draft regulations and on Thursday we will bring them to the session room and then the Supreme Council will decide on Thursday. With regard to the budget proposal of Stanislav Nikolainko. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that the work of the Budget Committee is now under way, along with the government, on the draft budget. On Wednesday, I ask your attention, at 16 o'clock we will meet with the government, the Conciliation Board and the asset, so to speak, the Budget Committee in the Conference Room at 16 o'clock, where we will arrange for our next actions on the consideration and adoption of the budget. As to the issues that Sergey Gmira is addressing, honourable colleagues, if any questions need to be investigated, let us put them in the proper order and consider them. Dear National Deputies! I know I have to. I ask you to be calm about this. With regard to Eugene Hoornik, I ask that which violates the question of renewal in the work of the Attorney General, I ask the legal authority to give an opinion on this matter. And hand it over to the National Deputies. With regard to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the mistrust of government, the Supreme Council has expressed its position, adopted, and the mechanism for its implementation must be foreseen. Again making any other decision of the alarm, I don't think there's any point. But the main thing is that we're in those changes that we've adopted there is that the rulings of the Supreme Council have the power of law. I think this will strengthen the constitutional position that the Supreme Council has in expressing its assessment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! A draft Decision on the Summary of Child Health Organizations in the Summer of 2004 and on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2005. Catherine Seminalic, please. We need to make a decision, you know, we've discussed this in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u18	Yes, dear colleagues, you and I have discussed the matter in detail, and after that you have sent out very many suggestions for improving this work. They were mainly related to the executive branch of authority. And we've taken almost 100 percent of your comments into account in the decision that was given to you much earlier in order to be able to accept. I'll just stop for a few moments. First. We note in our determination that there are indeed positive developments in this matter. We have a growing number of children who are getting better and healthy, but at the same time we recognize that the government of Ukraine, executive authorities, local self-government have made full use of those opportunities to improve the rest and recovery of children, and that the previous decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been fully implemented. Next. We're proposing. I'm asking a lot because this is a very different date, by April 1st, to introduce to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Child Health and Recreation Act, to develop and make legislative proposals for changes to the network of fixed children's health facilities, to ban their liquidation, to change their profile, to sell them for debt, because this is all happening, and to deposit them in the event of bankruptcy of owners. Almost right here in this decree, we're assigning the prosecutor's office all of these questions to investigate and study how health facilities are used. By April 1, the following year, we propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the establishment of a state order for rehabilitation: orphans, children deprived of parental care, children with disabilities, children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, many children, many children, employees of internal affairs, affairs and military personnel who died in service, children of lost miners. And once again, we're going to assign this to the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's not so hard for all of these numbers we have. Next, we propose to use the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure the organization of a year-long recovery and treatment and rehabilitation of children with disabilities, we have all the conditions in Eupatoria, Carpathian, Scadovian, Arabatka, Odessa. We do not take advantage of the opportunities for sick children, who grow in the number of such children year after year, to be able to heal in our country year after year. Next, we also propose in our resolve to ensure the timely release of the cost of children's travel from the value added tax so that it is not the same as this year. It's been a month since the healing season, and we're only a month away from the child's VAT. This needs to be done now, considering Ukraine’s budget for the following year. We offer to provide health care for children living in rural areas because you remember that there was no provision in Ukraine’s national budget for the rehabilitation of children from rural areas, and only in the June months of amending the Ukrainian Budget Law did we correct this situation, as well as at the expense of local budgets. And that's what we're going to see now, we're also going to see that we're also going to see that Kabmin's mandate is to provide child health care for energy, utilities, transportation, health care. We have already begun to resolve these questions, but only in some areas. So our decision contains specific orders from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the District State Administrations. All it takes is for the people who have to do this to understand that this is not a recommendation, but a determination to be able to resolve all these matters more positively.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the committee reminded you of that draft document we discussed, and we need to make a decision. I ask the distinguished national MPs to concentrate. I put to the vote a draft decision for adoption in general on the conclusions of the children's health organization in the summer of 2004 and on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2005, registration number 6338. Please vote. [[10:24:08]] For 364 Honourable National Deputies, decreed, for - 364, with the clarifications given by Catherine Semimenovna in her April 1st report. Now, I'm going to ask you to draft a ruling so that we can send it to execution. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund, and we have agreed that we will make a decision a little later because of the political circumstances that took place during the consideration of this document. To remind you of the content of this document, I invite you to the rostrum of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Yuri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You and I have already considered two bills submitted by our colleagues, and we have found that, in view of the fact that there were not enough national deputies in the session room to postpone the vote until the next session. So I'd like to ask you to do just that. Our committee proposes to support these bills in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u21	Both of you to back me up? Please tell the committee's position again, Yuri Petrovich. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies, because we're about to have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u22	The committee suggests in its first reading that both bills be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u23	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, we will put to the vote the bill's coming into motion. The first is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of draft Law 5138. The author is a national MP. Change the vote. Out of procedure, please, Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. Then Basil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I have the impression that the profile committee has failed to perform its function. The function of the committee is to determine how it feels about bills that are given if there are more than one. And make up your mind and recommend some kind of bill to the session room. When recommended, two, three, five are abnormal. And we do that a lot. I think we'll end with this practice. And oblige the committees to identify themselves, and offer us a single bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when you look at the documents, there's a committee position on every bill. So it's clearly written there. I would then ask the person who is presenting the bill to express the position of the committee, not my own. Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following: After examining this bill, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has made a number of important observations to it, which concern not only rhetorical and legal inaccuracies, but also the ideology of formation. That's what Bill 5138 means. That's why the Deputies' Group of Centers is proposing to send 5138 for further processing and re-reading, and 5,107 to take the basis and vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, a draft Ukrainian law is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund. The author is the People's Dove. Registration number 5138. [[10:29:07]] For-88 The decision is not taken. The draft law, registration number 5707, author of the Kirilov People's Deputies, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund is put to the vote. [[on the identification of an object of ownership]] [[10:29:44]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our second vote. I don't think that's necessary anymore. The Supreme Council has not been determined. From the committee of Yuri Solomatin, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u28	Dear colleagues. Today, as it often is, we discuss one day, and we make decisions the other day. There have been some misunderstandings and differences. So I would like to invite our committee to re-read the two bills in order to reintroduce them, taking into account the criticism that was being made in the hall, to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u29	Please. Well, dear fellows, we're going into discussion. Now there's an offer, let's put it to a vote. Nigga, please, then Carmazin. Nigger, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! I can't agree with the proposal that came out of the profile committee right now -- to take two again first. According to the results of the vote, it is appropriate to re-vote the second bill -- 5707 -- and then after the vote, I think it will pass. One bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u31	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u32	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill 5707, as well as the previous Bill 5138, did not vote, because 5707 suggested that the Ukrainian natural-indictment fund should be located not only in the possession of the Ukrainian people, but also in other forms of property provided for in Ukrainian legislation. I, for example, see what is being done with this natural-invention fund today, I never vote for this law, and I urge you not to do so. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's keep that Desert Water and all the other objects, let's keep it free from the introductions to the laws that, above all, are lobbying some moments. And I would very much ask you, you don't have to put us on re-reading and these bills, they don't carry anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have considered twice and have failed to make a decision twice, we have every reason to decide that these bills have been rejected. All the bills have been rejected, Your Honor. We've put them to the vote twice. A draft decree on the arrangements for the holding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ceremony on the taking of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u34	From the point of view? Please sign up for three minutes. Prepare the vice president of the committee, Vitalia Oluyka, for a report. Boris Bespali, please. Then Kirilo Polychuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u35	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", by Kiev. Dear colleagues! This draft decree is included in the agenda because the procedure at this point from a very important point of view for the State, a solemn one, important to the State of the solemn event, is not in place. And we all remember how five years ago the newly elected President, well, then reelected President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, took this oath at the palace of Ukraine. And so on. I mean, how much discussion and undue tension there was in society. And it is in order that, at any conclusion of the electoral process, whoever is not elected by the new president of Ukraine, we should set an order for the President in advance, not after the election. That is why it is appropriate to take this decision now before the re-voting takes place. Then it will be as objective as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u36	Please, Kirilo Polishchuk, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u38	Valery Konovaluk, please microphone. Then Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the event that the entire society is looking forward to -- the Supreme Council's solemn meeting on the formation of an oath by the newly elected President -- is really a matter that should attract attention not only to the Ukrainian people but also to the world's societies. I think that for us in our documents there is a procedure that is foreseen in the Rules of the Supreme Council and, I think, we can find out a particular question, but every time, every five years, I find it inappropriate. So let us make further communication and final decisions on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u40	Mikhail Kuzmich-Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u41	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I'd like to give Anatoly to Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u42	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u43	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I think that consideration of this decision is quick. After all, the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council determine the procedure for the inauguration of the newly elected President. We should wait for the Central Election Commission to decide on the election summary, and it can be until January 13. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we can't agree that today's downhill pressure is going on and on your side when you want the inauguration to take place by the New Year. This is what the procedure, otherwise, can be called a clocracy in the state will be done. We understand that the rightful leaders of the application are also the Supreme Council, but it is pressure. The other one. It's about swearing on the Bible. Part 3 of article 35 of the Constitution of the Church and religious organizations in Ukraine are separated from the State and the school from the Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! When we discuss this issue on the Conciliation Council, none of the questions arose. That's the first one. The other one. It's about not being in this election, but we need to make a decision about the procedure once and for all for 2009, and for years to come. And finally, last. I would ask very, very much of you, my fellow Members, not to blame me for what you have no reason to blame me for. I expressed my simple wish that by this year we would be done with all these problems. I beg of you, fellows of honor! Don't blame me. I didn't officially say anything. Please, Vitaly Oluiko, we've wasted time. Three minutes out. It's suggested that this is a five-minute protocol, the answer to the reporter's question is three minutes, discussion and decision-making is 12 minutes. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Why did we have a discussion on this issue? After all, we adopted on November 27, 2004, a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the political crisis in the country that arose in connection with the election of the President of Ukraine. In accordance with paragraph 5 of the above - mentioned decree, the Supreme Council commissioned the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine dedicated to the formation of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on November 29, 2004, reviewed the draft decree on the formation of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine, which was introduced by the People’s Deputies, Matviyenko, Klukkowski, Ivancho and Assadchev. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision on first reading to be adopted as a whole. And briefly, the essence of the decision. In accordance with article 104 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at which the new President of Ukraine is sworn in, is held in the sessional Chamber of Parliament on the basis of the results of the election of the President of Ukraine officially announced by the Central Electoral Commission on the day determined by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for submission by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The time, list of invited persons and other organizational matters The Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees with the newly elected President of Ukraine and the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The event of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is broadcast directly by the National Broadcasting Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine on all national channels. The opening ceremony for the President of Ukraine opens the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national anthem of Ukraine. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports on persons attending a meeting and gives the floor to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission to announce the results of the election of the President of Ukraine. Next, the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reports on the fulfilment by the newly elected President of Ukraine of all constitutional requirements for non-compliance with the office of the President of Ukraine, the absence of other circumstances that make it impossible for him to make an oath, invites him to the rostrum of the newly elected President of Ukraine to give him the text of an oath to the Ukrainian people, the content of which is defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. The newly elected president of Ukraine, placing his right hand on the Constitution of Ukraine and, preferably, on Per. The Gospel proclaims an oath to the Ukrainian people, signs it, and transmits the signed text to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine announces that the newly elected President of Ukraine has sworn an oath to the Ukrainian people in accordance with article 104 of the Constitution of Ukraine and has taken up the post of President of Ukraine. The Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine transmits to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the text of an oath to the Ukrainian people signed by the President of Ukraine. The Head of the Central Electoral Commission hands the newly elected President of Ukraine a certificate from the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to the newly elected President, with official symbols of the defect of the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine declares his address to the Ukrainian people - an inaugural speech from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Following the announcement of the address to the Ukrainian people, the President of Ukraine takes his place in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine near the flag of the President of Ukraine. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gives the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to announce the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with article 115 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u46	Dear colleagues. Please turn on the microphone to complete the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u47	And the last. I'm done. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closes a special meeting dedicated to the assumption of the post of newly elected President of Ukraine. The National Anthem of Ukraine is being performed. On the day of the ceremony, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not consider other matters. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, when there are questions to Vitali Oluika. Please sign up. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Matthew's next one will ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u49	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." First of all, I would like to thank you for such a well - prepared decision, which regulates whether or not the most important action in Ukraine. I think this determination can be supported by those on the left and those on the right. Because we really remember 1999 and the indignation of the left side of Parliament that didn't accept the inauguration. The decree regulates everything. I think it can be supported by those who believe in God and who feel that it is unnecessary to consult him because the President makes an oath or puts his hand on the Bible or does not. Of course, he better put his hand on the Bible. That's why I think it's a very good and timely step and most importantly that we're making it not only for the next oath-making by the newly elected President, but also for all the future cases that I hope will be increasingly better and happier in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u50	It's a wish, right? Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u51	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleague, you know, to tell you the truth, I don't understand. I carefully read the decree and, frankly, thought about it, this is the actions of the President to put his hand on the Bible, not to put his hand on the Bible as to how to behave. So we're giving it to him. Action. In fact, I have a question: Why didn't the old procedure go hand in hand before then? Who's she distracting from the way she is? The inauguration at the same Palace of Ukraine, where representatives of the regions are invited to attend. Indeed, the President becomes the President of the State, not of one political force or political movement. This is, so to speak, an event that must be organized and held for the entire Ukrainian people and access must be, openness, a mechanism of transparency. Yeah, that's gotta be it. What'd you mix up the old procedure with? And what is new about this procedure? Or to emphasize, so to speak, all that continuity that was just to throw away. So let's just sort of separate ourselves from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u52	Thank you. First of all, there was no old procedure like that at all. Therefore, for the first time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposing a decree proposing to legitimize the order of the President's inauguration. Because the first president of Ukraine made an oath in the Supreme Council. The second president of Ukraine took an oath in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the third time you reelected it, you remember the conflict situation that arose in the country, the actual acceptance of the oath took place in the Palace of Ukraine. I believe that the established world experience that exists today in civilized countries of the world regarding the order of the High Council to hold a ceremony on the formation of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine. Our committee carried out the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and proposed a similar decision. You have to decide by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u53	George Ponomarenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Sergio Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u55	Sergei Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u56	Thank you. I have three questions. First. It says here that the President sits next to the standard. And where the standard is set. Maybe in a completely unnecessary place, if you'll excuse me? From my point of view, it sounds kind of weird. Second. An oath of the Gospel. Well, in this case, both candidates for the Presidents declare themselves Orthodox Christians, although after that sacrilegious clown oath that was made by one of the candidates, I doubt it for at least one. But if elected next time, a representative of Muslims, Jews and so on, he will also choose between Thorah and Koran. That's not supposed to happen. And thirdly, why do you even need to make that decision? It's under a specific case. Wouldn't it be better to pass the President's inauguration law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. The Honourable People's Deputy, the issue of the President's Standard, it is stipulated by the Ukrainian President's Act, and it is always next to the President at all public holidays or at all others. The other one. Regarding the Gospel. In paragraph seven of the Supreme Council’s decree on the matter, it states that the newly elected President of Ukraine has put his right hand on the Constitution of Ukraine and at the request of the Gospel. So in each case, a person makes a decision depending on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u58	Please, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to speak. And second of all, I'm asking you to calm down! And secondly, I ask the Secretariat to prepare help on what is the Presbyterian Gospel, and then all the questions will disappear. It's just a unique historical, let's say, not a religious document, but just a historical document. Calm down, please! If not, no. Don't scream, please. Give the man a chance, please! What are you, respectable colleagues?Oh, my God! Please, do you have everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u59	Yeah, I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u60	Vitali Oluiko completed the answers to the questions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for discussion. Oh, it's written down, isn't it? On the board, please. We agreed on 12 minutes. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u61	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The question that we are considering today is extremely important, and I support it in the way that the reporter is reporting now. I support the fact that we still do not adopt the Ukrainian Presidential Act, and we also planned a section on the President's administration. Remember, I've been beating and persuading you for two years, and I'm saying that it doesn't matter what the president is going to be, but the President's Administration Act needs to be adopted so that no one can abuse that right. We didn't do it. In the end, I want to answer those who say why not in the Torah. And because Ukraine is an Orthodox state, and I think it will remain an Orthodox state. With regard to the fear that the 35th article separates the Church, separates it from the State, I want to say that in the Constitution we have written down responsibility before God, our own conscience, previous, present and future generations. And to those who oppose this, I would like to turn to you: Your Honor, what I'm saying, when I'm convinced and I've seen, maybe you didn't see, maybe you don't know, when on the day before the 20th vote, you didn't see it, you didn't see it, you didn't see it, you didn't see it, you didn't see it, you didn't see it, you didn't see it, you didn't see it, you didn't see the Committee on Religious Rights. [[Think of yourself as the leader of the Heavenly War]] This was contrary to the current law of Ukraine, which prohibited agitation on the electoral day. This time. And at the same time, it said, "Justenko-Berezovsky-Mashadov-Basaev: each of them has its own species for Ukraine," and then, "Remember Beslan." It's hundreds of thousands, millions of these cards were distributed to the Russian Federation. And on this point, the Attorney General's Office has not violated a criminal case. So, I think it's absolutely right, the normal proposal is in order. Of course, when we adopt the Ukrainian Presidential Act, we will incorporate it into this law and it will become an organic part of the Ukrainian Presidential Act, where all of this will be written and written. And in my opinion, it doesn't matter whether you take an oath with your right hand or with your left hand. And the next. It's very important for us to record that this is exactly what the President needs to be, to get used to these walls, and to understand that the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine are being adopted here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u62	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u63	Honorable colleagues, for everyone whose, even political, legislative ones, you do not get well. But if this one of the foreign, overseas factions called orange is to be reacted to. The oath of the President of Ukraine to the Constitution, who is one, is so eager to believe this, for all of us, is a necessity. But what is the Bible for, even the Transseptic Gospel? Because Ukraine, according to the Constitution, is a secular state. And my colleagues have already stressed that there is a mother church in Christianity, and there are several movements, and there is a sect. And they were the last ones on the stage, and they were singing to a famous orange candidate. There are Muslims, there are Jews, and there are, at last, atheists. So what about the Bible, the Transseptic Gospel, to add the Koran, the Torah, or the Marx Capital, and so on? It is very important, if the bill is to be supported, it must be determined that the newly elected President should place on the Persopnic Gospel of the Koran or "Capital" of Marx not his left hand, as the theater paphos did in front of a bunch of his adherents an orange candidate in this room, and the law, as required by the Holy Church and Christian Doctrine. Therefore, I personally believe that the orange candidate from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has performed the festivities and the church and the entire believing people of Ukraine should make the right conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u64	Mikhailo Melniczuk, microphone, please turn it on. The faction of the Socialist Party. Prepare Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u65	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear radio listeners! Dear colleagues! The Socialist Party faction will vote in favour of the ruling. We believe that there is nothing here if Parliament regulates the procedure that must be followed and the fact that Kuchma decided to go and swear in the Palace "Ukraine" means that all should be chosen by the President and violate the Constitution of Ukraine. I'd like to ask the honorary colleague who spoke here. And who was admitted from the people to the Palace? There was such a test that the mouse could not slip through, not, the participation of the people of Ukraine. Now, I want to give the word to John Boko, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u66	John Boki, microphone, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u67	As Mikhailo Vasilovich said, our faction of socialists will support this decision. And we see a profound point because we are finally going back to the constitutional norm when the inauguration of the President will take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the Constitution clearly writes, says that the President's oath should be proclaimed before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I would like to make another such clarity here. There is some meaningless and even wild talk about the Gospel, the Bible, and so forth, that is linked to religion. You know, it's funny, because it's a display of culture. Both the Presbyterian Gospel and the Bible belong to the temples. The Bible is called the Eternal Book. And now it's just, well, very limited people only associate it with religion, because it's a book that's absorbing the experience of the people, the experience of many peoples, the experience of the ages. Today, as they say, it's an eternal book. And the Transseptic Gospel is the sanctuary of our people, and it was funny to associate it only with religion, for it is also one of the monuments of our writing, our education. And the terrain around that it's something to do with believing, not believing, you know, why demonstrate your savagery? It's wild, I think. And the wild things in the Supreme Council shouldn't sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u68	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u69	Thank you, Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear fellow national MPs! I remain in the position that my friends in the Communist Party have expressed, that the ruling has virtually no real proposals. We do have the Supreme Council Rules, we have the Constitution and we should respect it. I've just come back from Hersonland and I've been talking enough, like my colleagues, I think national MPs, with voters, and they're saying unanimously today that most of them have become aware that for many politicians, neither the Constitution in our country means anything, nor the determination of anything. Practically today, our political elite is making decisions and trying to make the right decisions. This bill, I believe, cannot be considered today because I believe that the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government has allowed the same sacrament, because imagine 19 members of the committee present at the meeting of the Committee of 10 of them, 3 of them alive, as they say, and 7 are those who have delegated appropriate powers. In our committee, there is virtually no explanation of the regulatory committee on the right to vote, for they are awaiting a separate decree or a separate law. And the laws are about committees. So I think today's early adoption of this decision is going to be better, and it's not going to do us any good, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u70	Please, Bogdan Hubsky, the "Only Ukraine" party. You don't? Then Vladimir Cherniak, please have two minutes with us, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Cherniak, the Victorian faction of "Ukraine is ours." Dear colleagues, I completely disagree with the conclusion of my colleague who has just stomped that adoption of this bill will not lead to good. I think the opposite is going to be good. We need to be clear about the position and procedure for taking an oath by the President. The place defined is the Supreme Council, and no self-reliance, no palaces, "Ukraine," other palaces can't be used, definitely, only the Supreme Council. The procedure should also be clearly written out: which hand should place where, on which foot to stand, on the two legs preferably, everything should be clearly written, this is a procedure, a hard procedure where there should be no deviations, and then no one to iron out. Because the President's acceptance of an oath is respect for the will of the people who elected the President, of course the President needs to be criticized constantly, the opposition should constantly criticize and not only the opposition, but at least the solemn act of taking an oath should not cause irony and should not be an object of ridicule, because it is a sacred cause. Now, as to whether the Gospel is needed or not. It says, according to your wishes. I also want to support the thought that I've been making, I'm sharing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u73	And that's why. It's got to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Before I move to making a decision, I suggest, fellow believers, that I listen carefully. Paragraph 13. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gives the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to announce the application of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I suggest you, Your Honor, pay attention. I would like to add that this article of the 13th acts before it takes effect and changes before. before the Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine entered into force 4180. That is, when changes to the Constitution take effect, the powers of their Cabinet of Ministers are to be placed before the newly elected Supreme Council. So this will have to be complemented by this. There's no objection. Dear colleagues, we make a decision for a long time, not for a single time. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all of you that on November 27 we have adopted a Supreme Council decree, which stated: by 30.11, to make a draft decree on how to hold a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the formation of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine. So when we look at this document, we're following up on the decision made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, it's proposed to take a decision, and it's written in such a way that it's not for these elections, it's for us to have this procedure adjusted for all subsequent periods. Above all, we must be sure that the oath will take place in the Supreme Council, not elsewhere, anywhere else. And we agreed that we would have to make the right decision in this regard so that we would not be tempted to do so before. But whoever remembers it, that's why. Therefore, the proposal for adoption in the first reading, i.e. on the basis of a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the taking of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine, is put to the vote. Registration number 6373. Please vote. We have to vote now. [[11:05:22]] For 257 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, you don't have to. As soon as we start importing, we'll do anything. I read who. “Our Ukraine” - 96, “Ukraine” - 3, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 6, People's Agrarian Party - 22, SPU - 20, “One Ukraine” - 19, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Soyuz” - 14, “Hard Ukraine” - 3, “NDP and PPU - 16, “Centre” - 14, “Deminicatives” - 2, “Afterfrakation - 23. If you have any suggestions, please sign in for three minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Stratovich Volodymyr, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u75	Stratovic, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, Our Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for lawyers, terms, terms are important. Therefore, in the first paragraph, I propose the words "on the basis of the official announcements by the Central Electoral Commission of the results of the election of the President" to be deleted, and after the words "the Supreme Council of Ukraine" to add "but not earlier than seven weeks since the announcement of the official results by the Central Election Commission." Because the Elections Act sets a seven - day deadline for accusing the decision taken by the Central Election Commission. In addition, a large organizational arrangement is needed for such a meeting to be held, to invite guests, to be accommodated, and to be properly assigned. So I think that in this regulation, the term would be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say it's official. May I have your attention, Vladimir Stretovich? Dear colleagues, the official announcement is the publication of the election results in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and Government Courier. But they can't be published if there's a lawsuit, and the court hasn't really considered the matter. So why is this problem coming off? Please, Olga Hinzburg
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u77	I would like to give Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u78	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u79	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, so far the faction has abstained from voting in favour of this draft decree, based on what we should understand is that it does not sit before the President's flag, in the appropriate place that was taken away, so to speak, here we are in the Supreme Council. And it was by no chance that our comrades pointed out that, mildly speaking, inappropriateness, or simply, let's say, stupidity is printed when it is not clearly legal for what has to do with the future president. This is the first time. And secondly, I would like once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to draw your attention, we have under the Constitution a state of secular state, and in this case, based on the fact that Ukraine is a multinational state and a different nationality, there may be a elected president, the Gospel is a Gospel that we would not put historical meaning here. So we suggested that in this case this rule should be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u80	Allow me to finish my opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u81	Under the Constitution, no religion can be defined as the principal religion in our country. So I would like us to immediately make these changes to this draft decision, and the faction of the Communists will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? As far as article 12 is concerned. I think we need to do an editorial job here because the President is taking a place officially assigned to the President or officially appointed to the President of Ukraine. And clearly, the attributes, the standards, they have to be. So I think we're going to redact, if there's no objection, this point. With regard to paragraph seven and the words "at the request of the Peression Gospel," I will now put this proposal to the vote, but before that I would like to say the following, I will put this proposal to the vote. One minute, Peter Mikolaiovich, please! The resplendent Gospel is an outstanding handwritten monument to ancient Ukrainian literary language and art. The Gospel translation, so - called common - language, is quite close to the national one. I don't want to read any more, so I'm going to have to hand it over to the people's deputies right now. May I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to listen carefully to the proposal: in paragraph seven, the newly elected President of Ukraine, with his right hand on the Constitution of Ukraine, and beyond, "and at the request of the Presupnic Gospel." These words "and at the wish of the Perez Gospel" are excluded. It's an offer that's just been made. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:10:39]] For-119 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. May I have your attention, please? "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 28, Communist faction - 55, please pay attention, Your Honor! SDPU(o)-0, National Agrarian Party - 0, SPI - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The Union" - 12, "The One Ukraine" - 1, "The Hard Ukraine" - 4, NDP - 3, "The Center" - 8, "Deminicatives" - 1, "The Faction - 7. Thus, honourable national MPs, taking into account the wording of paragraph 12 and the appendix that I spoke of, in article 13, that this article is acting before the entry into force of these changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for approval in the entire draft decree as a decree for the order of the holding of the solemn meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, dedicated to the oath of the newly elected President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:11:55]] For 260 Order accepted, thank you. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 94, “Ukraine” - 2, “Communist faction” - 0, SDPU - 7, National Agrarian Party - 22, SPU - 20, “Ukrainian One” - 19, “Timoshenko Block - 18, “Union” - 15, “Hard Ukraine” - 6, “NDP industrialists, entrepreneurs - 16, “Centre” - 14, “Deminicatives” - 7, “non-fractional” - 20. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to include in the agenda of the day session and take a decision from the draft Ukrainian law to amend the Ukrainian law on the specialities of the Ukrainian law on re-election of the President of Ukraine on 26 December 2004 on the printing of ballot papers. Now we're going to put it into the agenda. If we don't, we'll be off the case. Registration number 6398, please vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[11:13:11]] For 237 Questions are included in the agenda. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "The Regions of Ukraine", communists, SPI(o) - zero, national agrarian - 20, SPI - 20, "The One Ukraine" - 17, Block Timoshenko - 19, "The Union" - 14, "The Hard Ukraine" - 11, NDP industrialists and entrepreneurs - 16, Center - 8, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, non-fractional - 14. From the procedure, please write down three minutes to consider the matter. On the board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u83	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! You know there have been many changes to this law. And yesterday we heard that we had another body that wanted to be empowered to make changes and proposals today is the Central Election Commission. So I remind you that under the Constitution, the Central Election Commission does not have that right. But I think you'd have to hear the head of the Matthews committee on the proposals made to this law, particularly the faction of "Our Ukraine" in order to give, to expand the list of patients who were supposed to vote. I'd like to hear the committee's opinion. I'm not saying we should bring them here. I'd like to hear the committee's opinion on this. Just a thought. So I think it's just in the procedural sense that it's worth listening to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u84	Matvienkov Sergei, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u85	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I would like to continue with my previous colleague's opinion and ask questions, but I would like to listen to those who voted in favour of this law and repeat the question I posed before the vote. Have you read it? And the second question. Those who wrote it. Have you ever been involved in the electoral process? Because what was written there today must have come to the front of the ballot and stopped. Come on, read it a little further! Touch the disabled! Look at the uplifting coupons! Look at the many other things written in this law. And what about those areas that work in closed institutions, how to form them, how to allow special treatment facilities for people, how to vote if less than 50 per cent were decided on the commissions, why less than 50 per cent or equal to 50 and decide on the elections at a given site? Oh, allow observers? Who's not there to count the votes? Ah, the provocations that could be. I mean, I get the impression that the law was written like this, just to write it, just to make it different from what it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u86	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u87	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u88	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u89	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear listeners! We're not voting in principle for this project right now. Why? And from the fact that the faction insists on making changes to the previously adopted law to protect the rights of the disabled, 2.8 million people who have been deprived of the practical ability to assist on the sidelines of the electoral district committees for voting. It's different. We demand that people of old and many of those who, in fact, have not been able to come for 80 or more years, but are not disabled! And they can't make a record of the members of the district commission coming to them to vote. And the third. I claim, like Matthewnkov, on the Conciliation Council, how much I tried to draw attention to him as imperfect, he virtually deprives and does not protect the rights of our people. So a faction of Communists until they make the right changes about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u90	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u91	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The Socialist Party faction today discussed the bill. It refers to the fact that one of our institutions that prints the funds, the banknote factory, is unable to print the required number of ballot papers. And that's why they're proposing today that the Press of Ukraine, a state-owned enterprise, also print these billboards. I think it's a perfectly clear question, and I suggest you don't translate from empty to empty, but vote in order to have a proper election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Bespali Boris Jakovic has a word for the committee’s report. Please, three minutes. Question three minutes, discussion and decision-making, give me a minute 12. Is there no objection? None. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u93	Boris Bespalij, Committee on State Building, Local Self - Government, city of Kiev Dear colleagues! The essence of this bill is that today the electoral bulletins are intended to produce only one polygraph company, namely, the National Bank of Ukraine's Banking and Monetary Court. At the same time, recent accounts show that this puts the electoral campaign at risk. The second such enterprise, there are only two in Ukraine, is a polygraph combination of Ukraine. So, for agreeing with the Central Electoral Commission, in consultation with experts, we make this proposal: to add a polygraph combination of "Ukraine" as an enterprise where election ballots can be printed and with proper control as in the Monetary Court. Next. Dear colleagues! It is fundamental that this bill should not be associated with anyone else. Why? Because changes to electoral legislation are divided into absolutely necessary changes to ensure that elections take place, and these changes are binding. So we're destined to vote Bill 6398, otherwise there's a risk that the election won't take place. With regard to other suggestions discussed, it is not necessary to mix everything into one law: flies separately, chopsticks separately, press ballots separately, and other problems separately. You can't do this right now. The attempts that have been made here, to solve everything, and immediately, I'm telling the radio audience, these are attempts that are irresponsible, that are aimed at breaking the election, that is blackmail. Next, how does the committee work? All legislative initiatives, and MPs have the right not only to speak on the microphone, they can submit bills and several bills, including me, on electoral legislation, have already been introduced. Tomorrow will be the meeting of the profile committee and they will be considered in a fixed order by the Committee, with each proposal separately. Because there are such proposals that are appropriate, there are such proposals. They're questionable. And trying to combine all the proposals into one, they can be compared to trying to unite them into all the criminal cases that are going on in Ukraine. Everyone knows that trying to expand these things is trying to shut down the process. So once again, the bill on printing ballots in the U.K. polygraph combination, it's separate, highlighted and absolutely necessary, and I'm asking all those who oppose the break of the election to vote for it, please put it in order and the committee will consider them as the first party tomorrow. The report to finish please ask a question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Boris Bezlogo. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up, yes, Yuri Orobec, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u95	Please tell me, could the current newsletter manufacturer work much earlier and work harder to ensure that? What is it that motivates him not to comply with this order? How objective is this information? This is necessary in order for us to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u96	Thank you. This information comes from, firstly, the information of the experts and experts in the business, first; from the experience of the past elections, when the production power of this combination was fully engaged. At the same time, I'm paying attention to what's planned on schedule, for example, to start printing at 8 a.m. in the morning 10 days before the day of the vote, we're proposing to start, let's say, from 1:00 a.m., already at night. Even under these conditions, however, there are risks that the ballot papers will not be printed on time. The very term of 10 days, it comes out of a comprehensive general interpretation of laws, when one candidate, for example, takes off 11 days before the day of the vote, one form of ballot papers, if it is taken in 9 days of the vote, another form of ballots. And under these conditions, the Central Election Commission makes the right decision to print in exactly 10 days. Although I think that as soon as possible on this day we can start printing. But we need to protect ourselves from potential risks. So I don't think we have another way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u97	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u98	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Boris Yakovlevich, I would like to ask you a specific question. Here's the expression in which you divided the voters "flies separately, chops separately." I would like to specify, however, which category should we refer to as people who do not have the disability of the first group, who are unable to rise and cannot reach the polling station, but who do not have the disability to date or even those who have the first group of persons with disabilities, but who cannot go somewhere to certify their testimony notarly. That's the first question. Second question. What category should we refer to as persons who will be admitted to treatment facilities three days before the start of the elections, who will not be able to reach the special area and who will not be able to rise from their beds and go to their stations to vote? To what category should we place those who will come with a strengthening handout to the rural area, I stress, to the rural area. And the county commission will tell them that you will vote on a 30-mile-long district commission. And how does he get to this station? And where's the main thing? So who are these flies or chops, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u99	Dear Sergey Anatolyevich, you separate the electorate, and I divide the deputies who want to hold the elections and who want to disrupt the elections. As for respectable persons with disabilities, it provided for the procedure: for those unable to move themselves, to vote at home; for those able to do so, to vote at the polling station of various groups of persons with disabilities. Next. Those who are temporarily unable to move but who are in the stations where such a vote is obtained. At the end of the second group with disabilities who are unable to move, it was I who introduced a bill that should allow them to do so. It's just that I think that this bill, once it's before the committee, should be voted on separately. And in the end, very often when you cover up with a disabled person, some say that people continue to print hundreds of thousands of ballots and make them vote at home. In particular, in Poltava, such a rehearsal was conducted by the “Regions” party, and in Nikolayev, a third of the people were forced to vote at home, violating the electoral rights of honest people. So you don't have to hide where there's no cover, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u100	Boris Yakovitch, time's up. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u101	I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we have about half a dozen more bills that deal with the other issues of holding the 26-number election. And we need the committee to look at them quickly and in the first place. This includes disabled people. Let's move on to the discussion. The discussion is underway. Then you'll take the motive. Well, dear colleagues, now we're talking, then it'll be out of procedure and out of motive. There'll be a discussion, then from the procedure. Please log in, three minutes out of the procedure. We've just had the transcripts from the procedure. Please don't blame me for not being able to. Please, Boris Bespali. Pass the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u103	I know what to do. Thank you. Please pass the word to Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u104	Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u105	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Dear Head, dear colleagues! We need to consider the matter essentially, essentially, that we need to expand the list of publications where newsletters can be printed. This is related to purely technical reasons, as we have learned from the management of the banknote-monetary factory, unfortunately. So we need to look at this issue first, essentially, so that we can also print in another publication a ballot for the election of the President of Ukraine. By making a positive decision on the matter, we can move on to other issues. Now we need to focus and accept this very question so that we don't break the presidential election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u106	Alexander Colonyari, please, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u107	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask you to pass the word to Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u108	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u109	Thank you. Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, honourable radio listeners, first of all, the production of ballot papers should begin no later than 10 days later. And before that, maybe. [[Article 72 of the current law]] Start printing ballots now, and no one will forbid you. This is the first time. It's different. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the principle of the matter: as Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you to take into account, in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, a re-vote takes place on the basis of article 85 of the Act in force. There, the Supreme Court made it clear on the basis of what article. And now the article is changing, including the change in the chapter that if someone withdrew their candidacy, our Ukraine orange decided that no one else could participate in the second round. The same change was made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u110	It's in that Law that's already been signed, isn't it? Well, we all voted him, but I didn't vote, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, we are now discussing this bill. Let's talk about it. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u111	Fucking Communist faction. Please give the word to the leader of our faction Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u112	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u113	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please, you are the Chairman. When I spoke to the Contingent Council about this, no one wished to draw attention to the fact that the representatives of our Ukraine simply pressured all members of the Contingent Council to take an illegal decision. The Supreme Court has clearly established that on the basis of article 85. There, once again, I repeat to you personally, firstly, 2.8 million citizens are deprived of their rights, the disabled and the elderly are deprived of their right to vote. No one will come to them to vote at home. That's a first. Secondly, if he withdrew his candidature from two votes, one candidate remained in the elections, virtually. Following the current amendments that have been voted on and the article on the Supreme Court states 85th, which is the participation of the third party to the elections. What do we vote now? Ours wants only the law for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u114	All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Please note, let's move on to the discussion, because this is about the law that we passed and adopted in a package that is signed, "The specifics of applying the law. " In the same law that we're currently considering, it's just that there's an additional definition of an enterprise to print newsletters. Then we'll ask when we're done talking about the Head of the Central Electoral Commission showing us the schedules and physical capabilities of the enterprise, I mean the Monetary Court. It's just a technical question. And everyone else, obviously. Everyone else has to decide. I agree with you. Yes, please. Well, dear colleagues, we all voted in favour of this bill. I remind you, 402 votes. Well, we made a deal! Please don't control me, all of you. According to the Rules and Procedure, those who are recorded and those who are in charge of the law are speaking. There will be an opportunity to speak. Please, Yuri Karmazin, then Yavorowski. 12 minutes to talk. In the end, Jaroslav Vasilovic will express the position of the CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u115	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People! Yes, indeed, there are some attempts on the part of some forces to overthrow the elections, as well as attempts to finance these elections from the state budget. Many options are being considered, including through atomic cost-sharing stations and others, where you can steal a lot of money, including through other budgets in other countries, my colleagues on the left are absolutely the right thing to do. But I'm asking you not to help me. I'm not helping you when you're out. So I'd like to say one thing for the comments that have been made today. The responsibility for the collapse of the election, which is planned because technically you can't print the ballot today, and because the rule of law is 10 days, we need to endure, because by 10 days, the candidate can still be down, and then there can be another candidate who can also stay in the newsletter for a couple of days, and then we can quit, and there will be a reason to change the name in the newsletter. This technical standard should therefore be voted on. Although I am inclined, for example, to refer myself to those who clearly understand that those who wanted the law to be passed and not to break the election, they did not vote fourth in favour of the adjournment of Saturday and Sunday, the previous decision. Can you remind me who initiated this? I can remind you who initiated it, the ones who are helping me now. So, honourable national deputies, you and I lost four days, from the fourth to the eighth to the adoption of the law. During this time, any changes could be made to the sick, all of them completely. And at the time, you remember, and now there's these bills on the committee, and I've already read the bill of the honourable Bespallah, for which I deeply thank him, but I'm not sure he can be accepted, I'm just not sure. With regard to the protection of the constitutional rights of our citizens, they will be realized by the fact that those in hospitals vote a hundred percent, the first - group disabled also vote a hundred percent, but there will be no what happened in the Mikolai region when 35 percent voted at home, which is absolutely impossible, is simply impossible physically. But there they voted 12 times on resilient coupons! And so far they're still not guilty of criminal responsibility. Despite the butaphoric changes, it's supposed to be in the Attorney General's office. So far, they're unpunished, even though their names are, and we called them, and in the Supreme Court hearing, that's what it sounded like. It is quite right that this law will enter into force and lose validity at the same time as the law on the specificities of application of the Law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u116	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of "our Ukraine" and prepare for Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u117	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block Dear colleagues, red, blue, orange. It seems to me that the most important conclusion and achievement of the events that have taken place with the Ukrainian nation in recent days. It was that with the help of the people, the people’s deputies had cleared the way for the less objective expression of our people and cleared the way for the third round or re-voting. And we understand very well that that compromise with constitutional reform has been done to ensure that the inactive or incompetent president that we have today has, unfortunately, still signed under this bill. We were able to clear up and update and make a much more honest Central Election Commission led by the benevolent Davidovich. Because of this, it would seem that the possibility of covering up some of the lasagna that had been made was deliberately caused by the colossal violations that had been planned. And by the way, there are people sitting in this room, and these materials are published in almost all the newspapers, and I'm not making anything up. And I still remember these erotic kisses of Clovis and Antonov, which he wants to kiss for seeing all the wet seals of all the territorial constituencies. What country could survive this? And that's what the National Deputies did. Because I want to address you, colleagues, not evil. My fellow communists, you understand very well, today it's worth getting something out of this law or getting it upgraded as it spreads, and we won't be able to hold the elections. That's why there's one of the most important requirements today is that it's technically impossible to print a newsletter. I am convinced that this should be voted on today and that this law should not be applied to us, and let this be a lesson to us. You don’t have to make the law five days before the election. Let's work out a new law after these presidential elections, in a calm and normal manner, to clean up any possible violations that might have been. Because I have before my eyes this 100 constituency with bandit faces, knives and the power of the deputy mayor, before I saw him on the film when he was lying face down on the asphalt and tied from behind. For this reason, I am convinced that we should, it is a matter of our honor, simply vote on this amendment today and conduct normal elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u118	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u119	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I have come to the conclusion, however, that when I have asked questions to my esteemed colleague Bespalloma, other comrades, I can clearly say that, indeed, the law has never been read or read before. I think that the problem that has arisen today, today, was this very law that has arisen only because it has come to this point, that it is necessary to print the ballots to date. And we are these mechanisms today, and we are not going to correct the very mechanism of this law by making these changes. This is much deeper, and it is more serious. We violate the constitutional rights of millions of people, those who are not involved in falsification, those who want to participate in the life of the country, they want to elect their President, they want to give their vote. But if you'll excuse me if we're forming commissions in the same way that we're going to make decisions, I repeat, if we don't have less than 50 percent. Let's take a look at the closed plots. We took out those people who work in closed areas. Who's gonna set up the front yard with the O.R. today? Who's gonna set up the front door from the maternity ward today? And those people who got to the hospital three days before the election lists were drawn up directly, they're just getting voted out, they're not getting anywhere. And the lists in five copies? Why, then, the controlling people, why do we have to spend too much? What do we have to do with these seal lists, for whom, for what? Uplifting coupons. Yes, there were violations that might actually come to the elections, but the rule is written today, in a way that no one will be able to vote on the vouchers. Imagine a man coming into town well if he's coming to the village, he's being assigned a station, go to that station, vote, it's 30 miles away. Where is he going to look for this place? Where's he going? Yeah, he'll never go anywhere in his life. First-group invalids. Once again, for those who are reporting this law today, only the disabled of the first group and the presentation of a certified document. So if he's not able to go to the polls, who's going to assure him of this document in writing, who's going to collect it. And if it's not a first-group disability, group 2 disability, and if it's not just a disability, it's a person who can't get out of bed at age and go vote today. Why do we just take this category of people out of our lives, just because we want to avoid counterfeiting? Well, it's not the same method they avoid. The observers, because we wrote an interesting word to the observers, unfortunately Matvienko didn't, Anatolia, I showed him that word, I wrote "only" and after that the word "only present" goes to the list of persons, well, they would write free access already would have been yes and all. How can I put these rules out? Now, the paper stamps, then we picked up the issue of 33,650 printing bookmarks, because then we talked about it, so think about what you're doing, in one print, let's set up a control system. Can we organize and approach this work? I mean, my dears, I see a question in another today. We will not correct these amendments, by law what has been passed. And not this party that will not vote for this bill today wants or would like to break the election today, not this, we are talking about another today, think again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u120	Yes, Peter Simonenko, the Communist Faction, I can see you've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. The law on the election of the President of Ukraine is not repealed, it is in force, I read: article 72, this is for our houses, which have now made a noise, it is written: “The central electorate of the Commission ensures the production in a central order of election ballots for the election day by the state polygraph company no later than 10 days.” Start printing today. Candidates are known, the court's decision is, start printing. Who prevents you from doing so? You're doing this on purpose. This is the first time, secondly, from December 5th they could, as I'm told, print these ballots correctly. Second. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in adopting Project 6372, we have adopted, with many other aspects, including the rights of 2.8 million citizens to vote. 90 or 80 years old, he has no right today to apply for him to come to the house to vote because he is not a first-class invalid. We voted then, I answer, for one simple reason that the package voted, you provoked the Supreme Council to take illegal action. Next. If we're talking about a violation, I'm sorry, and I want to raise the problem that this is a problem of organization and control. And by the way, those who are to blame should ultimately be held criminally responsible. In fact, my colleagues at the Sinchenko and Marcus faction suggested that some of the provisions of the Criminal Code should be amended so that the violators, in this case and the articles of the President's Election Act, would be criminally liable to increase this criminal responsibility. Nobody's paying any attention to that. I would like to draw the attention of the representatives of the orange people who are introducing this project, that the Human Rights Commissioner requires the Supreme Council to protect the rights of those to whom you have forbidden to vote in these elections. The Human Rights Commissioner requires that persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities, have the right to vote. You just threw them away, you really think they're flies, and you keep your chops. For this reason, the Communist faction believes that all the amendments we defend human rights must be fully voted on. And this amendment should not be voted on, it must be implemented by the 72nd section of the President's Election Act. And the Central Electoral Commission, with effect from 5 December, after the judgement of the court, print the ballot papers. Candidates are known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u122	Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, please, think of the C.V.C.K. in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u123	Since the Supreme Court of Ukraine obliged the Central Electoral Commission to re-vote on December 26, we are responsible, that is, the Central Election Commission, to hold it before the Ukrainian people. You can dance your political dances all you want and how you want. But I'm asking today to unlock the law, to unlock the law, which says that it's necessary to produce electoral ballots in two companies, because the electoral campaign, Peter Mikolaiovich, in 1999, in ten days, you know the power of 20 million, I'll say, I'll say for that, and another 20 million. Now the law, article 85, says that electoral ballots are produced in 10 days. I'm sorry, 72, where it sends changes, it also says that they're made in 10 days. One and the other laws set a ten - day deadline. Peter Mikolaiovich, I know the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak so as not to interrupt, I ask you to calm down. Please. Please, calm down. Allow the man to speak. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u125	But there is an active one today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u126	Read aloud, read aloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u127	Please, Alla Alexandrovska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u128	There's no such thing. This article has not been amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u129	Please, have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u130	This is another norm in the current feature of the election of the President of Ukraine, where ballot papers are printed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, please, will you give the man a chance to speak or not? Please, you'll have time to speak. Please, I beg of you, dear colleagues. Give us a chance to speak. Please. Please. I'll set it up, give it a chance to speak. Just sit down, please. Jaroslav Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u132	I stress once again, the current norm, article 9 of the Law, "The Personality of the Election of the President of Ukraine" stipulates that if one of the candidates is withdrawn by 16th, then the ballot is printed with the name of one candidate. Two candidates will be included when the election ballots are started today. If one of them shoots itself before 16, then the elections in Ukraine will be invalid, because the features of the event say, you listen carefully: if you start with two candidates by the 16th. Unforeseeable, unforeseeable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u133	Jaroslav Vasilovich, there's no point. Let's vote because no one wants to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u134	But I want one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u135	Sit down, we'll vote. You don't have to push it any further. Please! I'm telling you again, sit down. No, you're not. Please, Jaroslav Vasilovich, sit down. Please have a closing word for one minute, please, and a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u136	Dear friends! I think the discussion showed two things: first, a lot was said about what wasn't in the project. And that's the right of deputies, and they've been paying attention to important problems. But in order not to mislead us in the hall and not to introduce the audience, I wanted to say what the project is about, and what neither of those who spoke, and there's only one in it, is permission to print the bulletins and the U.K. polygraph combination. Come on, dot! There's nothing else in the project! And none of the speakers, none of them, I emphasize, objected to the printing of the Ukrainian polygraph. It's different. Bills, as colleagues have done, as we have done, and we will consider them in turn. But since there was no argument against the "Ukraine" polygraph, I think there's going to be a unanimous vote in favour, because it comes out of all the logic of the discussion. Thank you for your attention. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u137	Yes, please sit down. Sit down! What procedures?Oh, my God! I would like to draw attention to the vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on the specialities of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine in the re-vote on 26 December 2004. [[concerning the printing of ballot papers]] Registration number 6398. Please vote. [[11:50:14]] For 245 Decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Specificity of the Application of the Ukrainian Law on the Elections of the President of Ukraine in the Re-vote on 26 December 2004, registration number 6398, please vote. [[concerning the printing of ballot papers]] [[11:50:51]] For 256 The decision is taken, the law is passed. The factions, please. Please calm down. “Our Ukraine” - 99, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPU - 20, “Only Ukraine” - 19, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 14, “Hard Ukraine” - 2, “NDP and SPTU - 16, “Centre” - 14, “Deminicatives” - 10, “Affective” - 22. It is announced for the consideration of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts in Higher Education, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 01.10.2004. Registration number 5480. Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Science and Education, as you know, has proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of parliamentary hearings devoted to higher education issues, a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in the field of higher education. The bill was made on the basis of a detailed analysis of the situation on the spot. We've studied the situation of higher education across Ukraine, studied international experience, and studied how this is happening in other countries, such as China and so forth. Why we introduced this bill. Because today we have 2.4 million. I-IV level of accreditation students. But if you look closely at, let's say, just take the third to fourth levels of our own universities, institutes and academics, we have less than 37 percent of the children who study at the expense of the budget. Roughly speaking, only 1 in 3 children today is able to learn from the budget. 63 percent of children learn from their own resources, and we know how much money they spend today with their parents and mothers, especially those children in the village, or, say, children whose parents work in the industry, in the budget sector, and so on. And that's why, from the point of view of Ukraine actually developing an innovative way of developing, there's an innovative triangle here: science-production education, we've proposed a series of measures to support state higher education. We propose to make changes to the Budget Code, to the Business Income Act, to the Electricity Act, to the Land Pay Act, and to the Higher Education Act and the Earth Code. It's about giving serious benefits to our state higher education institutions so they can lower their tuition fees so they can raise children at the expense of the budget. And this has improved the situation in our country and, above all, in universities. So that they can upgrade their equipment so that they can buy new equipment so that our universities, the teachers, today can do science. Unfortunately, the President vetoes twice. And that's from the hand of our government. And the government says it's in favour of an innovative way of development. Here's the innovative way to develop, here's the attitude of the government and the president towards higher school. And that's why the committee is proposing today, on the basis of the interests of the case, to make some changes to this bill. Well, for example, we've offered to take costs, let's say, for the frame preparation of gross expenditures. But we were told and the government was talking!Oh, my God!That would be a means, let's say, of money laundering. That's why we're based on existing practice, and today there's an appropriate decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the Higher Education Act. This is regulation 1461, which limits the cost of teaching fees to no more than 2 percent. Our committee proposes to limit 3 percent from the Wage Fund. So today, this is a constraint. Today, the real figure is 0.3 percent of the Wage Fund. I mean, practically today, businesses don't spend anything on human resources. And it's all been translated into budgets. That's why we're offering it. We also propose that the Higher Education Act be removed there, that the higher education institutions in the operational department have real estate, and that we also have land. We've cleared this, this rule, we've taken into account the President's proposal, because the Earth Code regulates it. We also removed a number of positions, which were in previous readings. And the purpose of our law today is clear. We want to get the electricity fines out of higher education institutions today, because today they're fined on a five-fold scale and a wild situation that I've already talked about here, when the budget doesn't add up the costs of the university, but on a five-fold scale, we're fined for it, and it's on the parents' side, and so on. We suggest, say, that the Ministry of Education approve the funds, and the current fund to change the rector over the course of the year, which is 12 million just moving from Kiev to the place, because it's driving to this neighborhood and so on. Therefore, the committee, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, proposes to adopt a new version of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u139	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Vasil Grigorovitch Kremen is Minister of Education and Science. I'm asking the National MPs to mobilize, and now we're going to decide what to do and then we're going to call it a break. Please, Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In fact, Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko, head of the Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council, gave a history of the matter. And indeed, the President of Ukraine vetoed the bill. But considering that the project that the Committee on Science and Education has put forward today mainly takes into account the comments made by the President of Ukraine, it is thought that this law, taking into account its very important importance for the development of higher education, is certainly worthy of support for the intellectualization of Ukrainian society. So I would like to join Stanislav Mikolaiovich's proposals and ask the people's deputies to decide by voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u141	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovich. Dear colleagues! If there is no objection, then a proposal can be put to the vote by the committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in the field of higher education in the new edition. Is there no objection? The proposal for a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in the field of higher education for adoption in a new edition is therefore put to the vote. [[Registration number 5480]] Please vote. [[11:58:48]] For 348 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! Please listen to the announcement. During a break at the registration tables, Ukraine’s 2005 budget is available. Please use this option. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll continue our morning session. . 30, not 31, that's different data on board, so we're going to deal with short-term issues, we're going to listen to draft laws to amend the laws of Ukraine on public social insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases that have caused loss of employment and the mandatory public social insurance for unemployment, for reporting. Here's the two registration numbers 3036 and 3037. People's MP Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich is reporting to Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies, I immediately wish to draw your attention, Adam Ivanovich, to the various laws involved. These are not alternative laws, they apply to different laws governing the activity of the Employment Fund, and on the other hand, insurance against accidents in production. So the first law 3036, the registration number. Dear colleagues, note what has been adopted in the law in force. There is a structure called: The Industrial Accident Insurance Fund, in this structure, has the right to set taxes. I'm noting that this is a unique case in the legislative practice of the world and Ukraine when the structure itself sets taxes, because the risk classes to which the class refers are set up by the foundation itself. Second, imagine a situation where the tax inspector has the right to set a tax benefit, or an allowance, i.e. one to set a VAT 20%, the other to set a 10%. And we're wondering why corruption is so widespread in Ukraine, because that's the right that the Insurance Fund is given to deal with industrial accidents, to set insurance tariffs discounts, and to set insurance tariffs. Third moment. This fund is granted the right to provide irreparable financial assistance to address particularly acute labour protection problems. And if you speak the human language, this fund is given the right to bribe at the expense of a fund that has a tax nature. One more moment. The formation of the fund is tax-based because we legally approve the conditions for the formation of this fund. Who approves the fund's budget. The Fund's budget approves the same fund. And the budget implementation report approves the same fund. So this structure is out of control. This structure itself approves the number, sets the wage. If it were a self - control organization that collects voluntary contributions or donations, it would be her right to do so. But it is formed on the basis of the sources provided for by the law of Ukraine, on the basis of essentially taxes on the nature of the coming. In this regard, draft Law 3036, which provides for the solution of a number of things, has been introduced. First, the ban on granting the fund the right to discounts and premiums. Second, the ban on providing irreparable financial assistance to deal with job security problems is not the purpose of the fund. Assignment of an insurance fund for industrial accidents. Third, a report to the Supreme Council on the implementation of the Fund's budget. Fourth, setting requirements for commercial banks by joint decision of the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers, where the fund has the right to place funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u144	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u145	Because it's impossible to allow government funds to house any bank, it has to be a special requirement for such banks. And the fourth. The number of machines, the salary, should be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The comments made by the experts, I've actually already sounded them, because we're going to have to make changes to the basics of social insurance legislation, because they say the wrong things. This cannot be a self-sustaining organization if it collects contributions provided for by the law of Ukraine, if these are state contributions. Similar standards are provided for in Law 3037, but they apply to the law on unemployment insurance. And there are a few standards. First. Remove the norm that applies to job creation subsidies, because it is also a norm that promotes corruption and does not correspond to the appointment of the fund. Because the foundation's appointment is insurance against industrial accidents. The second standard is to report to the Supreme Council for approval of public fund spending reports. And the third requirement is the same requirement as for the allocation of the free funds of the fund. These funds can only be located in banks that are determined by a joint decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank of Ukraine. And these banks are supposed to be subject to higher requirements, so not every bank has the right to have appropriate funds. People's deputies please support both draft laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u146	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Have a seat. Although this could have been done in one piece, less paper would have been, up to two, but in one. Please, from the profile committee Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bills 3036 and 3037, the author has just reported these bills to us, as discussed by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Regarding the first bill, 3036, which proposes to improve legislation on the State Social Insurance Fund from an accident in manufacturing and occupational diseases that have caused a loss of work, I want to remind the session hall and the honourable author. The size of the insurance tariffs is not a fund, the size of the insurance tariffs we set up a separate law here in the session hall. Then this law becomes mandatory, and it is controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The first deputy minister of social policy and work present at this session hall will surely confirm this information in his statement. There is no need to introduce a session hall, especially radio listeners, into the illusion that the fund itself is writing out some kind of insurance rate. Nothing like that. The bill envisages strengthening control over the operation of the Social Insurance Fund against accidents by empowering the Cabinet of Ministers to confirm numbers, establishing with Nitzbank a list of banks that will place the funds of the Fund, establishing an annual procedure for approval by the Supreme Council of Reports, and removing Article 22 of the Act on Prevention of Accidents as a whole. Making changes to this bill in the way it is will significantly worsen the working conditions of our people, our workers in industrial enterprises, especially those where the risk of accidents is high. Why? First. We have to take into account the difficult financial situation in the fund, in this fund, because we have adopted a budget in this room, the State Budget for 2003, and article 69 has foreseen that the cost of partially covering the costs of debt to miners from regressive lawsuits and the one-time loss of professional work has been eliminated and removed from the same fund, and as a result, it has not received a significant amount of money. Let's move on. The proposed changes to article 46 concerning the identification of the Cabinet and the National Bank of Commercial Banks, the list of funds, I remind you that this is contrary to article 65 of the State Budget Act, which provides that the funds in the Social Insurance Fund are used by the Treasury authorities, and there is no need to allow any commercial banks to make any money at that cost. The conclusion of the committee is: in view of the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, Kabmin's conclusion, which proposes to be sent for further work, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to the Supreme Council that draft Law 3036 be submitted for further work. With regard to Bill 3037. Motivation of the committee, I'm going to conclude right away -- send this bill for further work, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u148	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u149	Because the proposed changes to article 16 concerning the definition of joint decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank of requirements for commercial banks to manage these costs contradict article 65 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2003. I'm reminding you again, the Social Insurance Fund funds are being used by the State Treasury. And I think that's right and fair. Further, the annual approval of the Supreme Council of Financial Reports is contrary to the basics of Ukrainian legislation on compulsory public social insurance and can lead to the destruction of the system of self - control and parity of management of the fund. So once again, the committee proposes, taking into account the conclusions and opinions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that this bill be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a technical flaw. Not only do national deputies endure, but equipment also endures. I think it's going to work out, and it's going to be okay. Let's move on to a discussion of the subject, a reduced procedure. Please, Puzakov, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u151	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The changes made to article 33 make it clear that the right to insurance payments is due to an accident at work or at the loss of a caregiver. But today in the state, it's just a paradox about social protection against accidents. Those who are assigned such payments are simply forced to fight for them through the courts. For example, in the city of Kirovograd there is Sistrets Stanislav Danilovich, who has been beating the bell for more than ten years to obtain compensation after losing his job because he became disabled at the factory by the third work - disability group. The question is, Why should this man go to the courts or the Henprosecutor's office when he became a disabled person? So why isn't it being implemented? More or less a better situation in the area of social protection for unemployment. For example, during the period of the introduction of unemployment insurance, the active programs benefited 144,000 unemployed citizens, or each other registered unemployed, returned to active employment of over 63,000, trained new jobs, and improved qualifications of more than 15,000 people. The potential of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has been used to create jobs and to develop entrepreneurial activities among the unemployed. The only sure choice under State financial constraints was the creation of a system of social protection for the population, based on triangular funding, social dialogue, and the self-reliance of the funds involved. The introduction of unemployment insurance should significantly increase minimum insurance payments, increase the level and extent of active employment promotion programs, restore and increase the skills of the workforce and create additional jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin. After him, Solomonine. Out of the way, please, Carmazin's microphone. And later? We can't and can't make it later. Then please, Solomon. It's for Melniczuk to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, you and I are witnessing how representatives of the liberal, bourgeois part of our Parliament are trying to push through the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill that is supportive and that is in favour of those who are already in line for the creation of such funds. I would like to draw our joint attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly called our attention to the fact that there are not only doubts, but there are also some strong points about the adequacy of the functions of the state-wide, compulsory social insurance system, which in fact have the status of public organisations, and the need for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of materials on incomes and social insurance funds. Let's think about the essence of this observation. First. You and I have already witnessed various kinds of trusts, non-state pension funds and other institutions, and not only in our country, in our country, but also abroad, when they stood in line, in turn, in that Parliament or in that central executive body that approved the establishment of such institutions to eventually become a disintegrating organization that would invest in such a fund. So, for example, I don't understand how, on the one hand, we're declaring the need, the general obligation, the government, the social insurance, and on the other hand, we're putting it into the hands of a self-sustaining commercial organization. It's kind of non-commercial. Let's think about an example of how this happened in the country of the United States World Democracy when there was a famous scandal with a non-retirement fund a few years ago. Enron's firm, Enron, and what did that lead to? To what kind of scandal on a global scale? So I fully agree with and agree with our faction that this law and the next law that we set out in our daily routine is one that needs attention. But what is offered today is very dangerous. And that's why we agree with the committee's proposal to get this bill redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u155	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill submitted today to the Ukrainian Parliament. We believe that the bill is aimed at strengthening control over the activities of the relevant social insurance fund and eliminating the possibility of misappropriation of its funds. In particular, for this purpose, the bill proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be empowered to approve the number of social insurance companies from industrial accidents and their administrative expenses, to establish requirements with the National Bank of Ukraine, and to list banks that allow the allocation of funds from the Fund. In addition, establish the order of annual approval by the Supreme Council of reports on the implementation of the Fund’s budget. In addition, the bill provides for the removal of the government of a fund of powers for the establishment of discounts and allowances for the insurance community and the provision of financial assistance to enterprises on a non-refundable basis to deal with job security problems. Turning away from this bill, I would like to draw your attention, honourable national MPs, to the fact that yesterday, as we have information, on the Conciliation Council agreed to include in the agenda the adoption of the Law on Temporary Investigations Special Commissions of the Supreme Council. There is no order in this question. I would also like to point out that we are finishing our agricultural year. Dear friends! This is a very bad situation in agriculture: the underfunded direction of the selection and tribal directions of work in animal farming as well as in vegetation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u156	Mikhail Vasilovich, please, either by law or I'll give it to someone else. You have a slightly different question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u157	I understand, I said I was rejecting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u158	And you have no right to deviate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u159	One more question. I'm right, I'm a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u160	Please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u161	Also, there is no calculation of farmers for livestock. low standards. So, I think I made a statement under the bill. But if I, as a national MP, have any other questions, no one can stop me from speaking and raising the questions that are essential for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u162	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich, I'm not comfortable with you, you're a very disciplined and active national MP, but the chairman has the right to make remarks if the speaker does not speak on the subject of the problem. You're right. Don't shout. You have the right to speak out of any question in "different," in statements and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u163	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u164	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I would like to thank Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik for taking on the responsibility and returning to this bill, the first with which the law on compulsory public social insurance from the accident of production and occupational illness, which caused the loss of employment, was passed on September 23, 99, and the second on compulsory public social insurance in case of unemployment was adopted on March 2, 2000. And these funds exist, Pinzenik only did something else, Pinzenik proposed the changes that will be made to report the fund to you, the honourable national MPs, because of you to the Ukrainian people. Is that bad? Pinzenik predicted that the number of executive directors would be confirmed and waged, that workers and administrative expenses would be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Pinzenik suggested that, together with the Government of Ukraine and the National Bank, the National Bank, which was headed by Mr. Tihypco, who put this bank and our unit of money into a contract for its interests, party interests. These funds were just presented together to commercial banks that allowed them to keep the bank’s funds. This is what he's doing to make sure that this money doesn't go out, because this is exactly where people have been affected by an accident. And Pinzenik, in the end, did a lot of useful things in this project, he did it also in article 48 was complemented by this position. By March 1st, the Fund is reporting to the Supreme Council for approval of the Fund’s budget implementation report, and the report is being considered by the Supreme Council, together with the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. And I remind you that we have made changes to article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to which the Court of Auditors has been obliged not only to pay the expense of the State Budget to monitor, but also to receive funds, so it seems to me that those who are against this Law have simply not worked against one another and against another law. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour, because the second bill also provides for a joint decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank on the requirements of commercial banks. It removes from the law the position that the employer is supposed to grant to create additional jobs. There's still a lot, but the main thing is reporting the fund on the implementation of the fund's budget. It's transparency, it's the expansion and expansion of the peoples. Why do we today oppose this? Only because Pinzenic brought it in because someone doesn't like him. Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u165	Thank you. Your thanks very excited Viktor Mikhailovich, he's quite pleased. Yes, from the Cabinet of Ministers, please, Hottie, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u166	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I want to address you, the author of this bill. If today "Ukrainian" initiates the construction of civil society, and the management of social insurance funds for the participation of hired workers and employers who pay the costs, contributions to these funds are part of the building of civil society based on self-government. So why are we evil in front of the population today? Please tell me, why does the Cabinet of Ministers have the right to determine that social inspectors should be in such regions rather than employees? Why are we talking today about how the funds of the fund can not be used for purpose? Let's step up public oversight, but let's talk today about avoiding the participation of hired workers and employers in fund management -- that would be evil in terms of hired workers. And, Victor Mikhailovich, I want to tell you today that the hired workers of 22 million, many of us will not win today. When we've been given the opportunity. Adam Ivanovich, we're just being devious today. And today, socialists need to say that with the adoption of this law, 36,000 of our fellow countrymen are losing their jobs. So let's use the funds rationally, honestly, as called for by "our Ukraine." But building civil society should be given mechanisms rather than narrowing down the participation of hired workers in the management of these funds. And today the government says that the government allows all powers to be exercised by the two sides of the social partnership within the limits of the law. The Court of Auditors, the Audit Authority, should check. And we must report to the Supreme Council as we obey the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u167	Thank you. No replicas. Please. No replicas. One minute to Pinzenic as a reporter for the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I would very much ask Helen Vasilyal the Heat not to confuse sinning with the righteous. Because if it were a charity fund, where someone was trying to interfere with how money was used, it would be right. But we're talking about a fund that's formed by government insurance payments, payments provided for by law. And Helen Vasilovna says, sorry, no one has the right to know how much money comes in, where it goes, and no one has the right to know how money is actually spent. If you're talking about a charity, set up any salary. But this is a government structure where salaries are to be set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. Because if you're talking about civil society, you can create social organizations. But this is not a public organization, because the status of payments is defined by the law of Ukraine. And no one limits the right of employees here. On the contrary. For the benefit of all employees and employers, control over the funds of this fund and the unemployment fund, and the temporary disability fund. Please support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u169	Let's be clear. Dear colleagues called the faction but did not name Melniczuk. So please, once again, we agreed that when they called the faction, there was no replica. But as a means of encouraging Melnichuku’s activity, I will give him one minute by breaking the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u170	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I mean, whatever happens, I'll never be offended by you, because you are, and not once do you give me your word when even under the Rules. One second, I want to answer to the Ministry. 36,000. workers are fired. At least Parliament knows about this, only I as a deputy only know today. I should have known in advance that you could make such a remark. And with regard to the organization of work, the faction of the Socialist Party will vote unanimously for the adoption of the bill and will vote in general not for the reduction, but for the acceptance of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u171	Yes, dear fellows, we will be determined. Before that, I want to remind you once again, I'm pointing out that I've been paying attention to you and the reporter, not alternative bills, so one doesn't exclude the other, but one does complement the other, because that's making some changes to different laws. So we have reason to vote them not as alternatives. I am betting on a vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that have Caused Loss of Work. Registration number 3036. [[12:59:02]] For 244 Decision taken. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance in case of unemployment. Registration number 3037. [[12:59:41]] For 223 The decision is not taken. There's an offer. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 91, “Ukraine” - 18, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPU - 19, “Ukrainian One” - 18, “Timoshenko Block - 12, “Union” - 6, “Hard Ukraine” - 2, “NDP and SPTU - 9, “Centre” - 9, “Deminicatives” - 3, “Affectious” - 15. Who's to go back to voting on this bill, please make up your mind. [[13:00:39]] For 223 The decision is not taken. There is a proposal for a committee to submit a draft for re-reading. Please vote. [[13:01:07]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have passed Bill 3036, which, as it were, speaks of the same thing, only makes changes to the same law. There is another law that needs to be changed. That's it. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to draw the attention of all of us to the lack of logic in that the first law is supported, the second law is not. It refers to the same problem: both in the first case and in the second case, putting under public control the costs incurred by the funds. In one case, an insurance fund for industrial accidents, another for unemployment. And this law does what we should have done a long time ago. They have no right to have structures that spend themselves without any form of public control. I'd like to support the return to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u173	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u174	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! We have talked a lot about these funds. We had a big fight. And you'll remember that we initially talked about what a huge mistake had been made in the mechanism for the formation and operation of these funds. You'll remember what we did today. The enterprise pays regardless of the number of injuries, depending on the number of workers and the degree of danger under these conditions of work and wages. How is this money used? The bills that Pinzenik is proposing are only the first step in order to reform the work of this system. There is a need to regulate and link, create incentives for the economic manager to be interested in reducing injury in order to reduce his interest in reducing unemployment and creating employment. To do so, a transparent, normal system of use of these funds must be made. 36,000 workers. Dear colleagues, you'll remember when we said why we're creating an additional office. I was told here from the rostrum, "No, it's not, it won't." Today, the figure is 36,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u175	There was a suggestion to go back to voting on the matter of re-reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[13:04:02]] For 205 The bill was rejected. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 90, "Ukrainian Regions" - 8, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 0, People's Agrarian - 22, Socialists - 20, "One Ukraine" - 7, Tymoshenko - 16, "Soyuz" - 7, "Trud Ukraine" - 2, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 1, "Centre" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, non-fractional - 16. There is a question of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that have Caused Loss of Work. Registration number is 5768. According to Olijnik, Peter Mikhailovich. I can't see. Then from the committee. Dry? Please, from the Committee Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask all of you, Ukrainian national MPs, to be correct. I mean, not polite, because it's impossible to be sure in this room, but at least scientifically correct. The funds we're talking about, the ones we're cursing here, they're based on tripartism. And that's just and right. To strengthen state control of these funds is the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, there are annual reports of this fund that anyone can read and see. There are a lot of people who want to handcuff the money that's in these funds and give them a storage place, not a government treasury, but a commercial bank, because someone thinks that Kabmin is theirs and theirs. And then they're going to figure out the distribution of these funds. Under a good flag, it's like control and under another good flag, for which we pay the grandmothers. We pay according to the tariffs that we set in this room. Bill number 5768 of Olijnik’s colleague means that there is a problem and interference, not with the activities of the funds, but with article 33 of the law, which defines the category of citizens on which payments are made in the event of the loss of a breadwinner. The Foundation proposes to identify individual categories of persons who were on the receiving of the deceased, as follows: (1) the author is expected to complete the paragraph by saying, article 33 of the Law on Unemployed Persons entitled to Insurance Payments in the event of the victim's death, in the case of children who have not reached the age of 16. The author suggests that the words "certainly supported by the Center for Employment" should be added. The Employment Center is not obliged to provide such help to children under the age of 16 that they are not at the center of employment or are able to be employed. It also predicts that children who are students, students, students, but no more than 23 years of age are unemployed. I would like to remind everyone that we have adopted the Family Code with you in this room, and article 199 provides that the proposal to end insurance payments to children under 23 years of age, if they have entered into marriage at this time, is contrary to this article. So if "a teenage daughter, a son, continues to study and therefore needs material help, they should receive such material assistance." [[I'm quoting an article.]] Based on the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, which considers that the bill narrows down the rights of individual categories of citizens with regard to State social guarantees, which conflict with article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u177	Thank you. Please move on to the discussion. [[Short-term procedure]] Carmazine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". I would like to thank the committee, Jaroslav Sukhoma, for paying proper attention to the violation of the Constitution in narrowing the scope of citizens' rights. It is also practical, but without reference to the Constitution, that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which concluded that it was appropriate to send a draft for re-reading. But why didn't they come to a conclusion about the narrowing of rights, I can't say. I'll remind you that the law that we're talking about to make changes was adopted on September 23rd of 99th, and the main tasks of accident insurance are to take preventive measures to eliminate harmful and dangerous manufacturing factors, to prevent accidents in production. And that's why it's important to look at the improvement of this law right now, because of the magnitude of the accidents that Ukraine is building from time to time. These are the ones that are now taking place in the Donetsk and Luhansk region, the terrible cases that are caused by the very lack of rules and the safe, secure conditions of the people. Human life must therefore be put above all things. Besides, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to support this bill, even though it was submitted by a member of my faction, which I highly respect because it restricts and makes it difficult for children to get a pension. These are those children who still have moral damage and material harm, of course. Because they lose the victim, lose their father, or lose their mother. And we're saying in these cases, let's get more help from the center of employment for children aged 16 to 18. Why are we doing this? I can't say that, even if they made money, they'd fake it wouldn't be scary. They should receive money for failing to protect them, for failing to provide safe production control, and for children who are students of the day, students of the form of education are also limited by the fact that if they have not entered into marriage, and if they have entered into marriage, what should they not eat, or should they not dress? Whether they are guilty that the State is so criminally referring to the supervision of the protection of the work. That's why I'm here to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u179	Please, Solomatin, prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u180	Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction, the honourable colleagues, we are witnessing with you in discussing this bill, as if by beautiful words and as good intentions in reality, we are hiding very poorly, even the man-eating intentions. What is it? In article 33 of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases, which have caused loss of employment, it is proposed to make changes that affect children. Let's think about it with you kids, if they even started working and doing something and making money, we have to protect them in their entirety, create certain conditions that are conducive to their being able to support themselves, unworkable parents, relatives, and in these inhuman conditions. And this is what we're talking about, children under the age of 16, they have to go and get help from the center of employment if there's any doubt that they're not on the books and don't give you God that they weren't directed at some, even temporary job. And on the other hand, it is suggested that students and students, that part of our youth and young people who have not yet reached the age of 23, be narrowed down in their rights and even restricted in the exercise of their undeniable right to gain additional money. What is really going on? It's kind of narrowing down and limiting the rights of citizens, especially youth and youth, to the part of our society that only enters into life and should not face such restrictions. Can such intentions be considered cannibalistic? That's the question. Can such intentions be considered child - control? That's the question. So I want to support those colleagues who spoke to me right here and proposed rejecting this bill, to support the committee's position on this issue. That's what the Communist faction thinks. I don't support this bill. We urge every concerned, honest one, regardless of the political preferences of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u181	Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, Socialist faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u182	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill is designed to clarify the cycle of pensions due to the loss of a breadwinner from the Social Insurance Fund by introducing additional requirements for certain categories of persons who were held dead. As long as there were observations here, my colleagues were speaking. The Socialist Party faction will be determined by voting. But I would like, dear friends, not to be so frank as to be rejected. Maybe you could work on it anyway, if you had any warnings about children up to 16 years old or students, students of individual institutions, middle-special institutions, you could do that. And I think there are positives in this bill. And if we need further work, we should be MPs to concentrate our efforts, make comments, let us even work on it, but still refer to the author of the bill with great respect. Because a person who does nothing does not submit bills, he counts himself as an ideal MP in Parliament. And whoever wants to do something and somewhere really might have made a mistake in, we'll talk about, working out the bill, we shouldn't be, we shouldn't be giving that person a negative, our colleague. I would like to address you, Adam Ivanovich, after all. Maybe you'll turn off the microphone right now, but I'd like to go from the high court to the executive duty of Prime Minister Mikolia Janović Azarov of Ukraine to fund those agricultural directions, because every penny is very important to the peasants today. I think we have all the support and support of the factions of the Communist Party in Parliament and other factions. You have to turn to the village with your face, not your back, because we understand that pensions are now important, they're very important, important wages, they're very important. But what's important is that today the village needs the help of the state. And that budget that was adopted for 2004 has to be implemented towards agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u183	Please, Javorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, faction of our Ukraine, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u184	Dear legislators, honourable voters! I think we have a very interesting episode in our legislation with you, around which, look at the immediate political growth, humanity already here, so, well, straight away. A bill was prepared by the MP, a longtime deputy who served as the mayor of a mining town in western Ukraine, Red Cross, who knows the situation well and so forth. He prepared the bill, he wanted the best he could -- it came out the way it always did. We've all come together, and there's probably no one here who thinks this bill is good. Regrettably, the national MP’s failure failed. I don't think it's such a tragic failure that will forever drive him away from writing laws, but for today, I'm convinced that we're not voting for this bill: a) because it narrows down the rights of a citizen under the Constitution, and it's actually, well, frankly, from social, from any of these poor students. We all married students, in fact, and today we narrow down these rights. Because of this, I am convinced that we will vote normally, peacefully against this bill. And we wanted to talk about one more thing with half a minute, which is also important. Society sees another problem that can literally come out of our country and our society. You know, the Prime Minister said that gas payments would come from savings books. He declared it in the electoral ecstasy, but not a penny of living money went there, and today, in fact, almost to the pit, he in Zaporozhye told me about the Dnipropetrov gas payment. Can you imagine what this could happen? Because of that, I'm sure Mr. Yanukovich will give a signal or a "Restoration," what did he come out of when he talked about it? Or let him just tell people that he lied to them, and they have to pay for the gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u185	Yes, thank you. Helen Vasilovna, please, Heat, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u186	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the government cannot support a bill aimed at reducing the social benefits of our citizens. We will continue to thank and count on the Supreme Council for increasing social benefits. I ask you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u187	Yes, dear fellows, we will be determined. Well, as we can see, this is the only point to thank the National MP for his initiative, for his courage and initiative, but not to support the bill, because it violates the Constitution. Yes, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On State-wide Compulsory Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Employment". Registration number 5768. [[13:21:10]] Z-11. Thank you. 11, just like that, for discharge: Yuri Anatoliyovich here complained that he should not break the Constitution, but he broke the Constitution twice because he pressed three buttons. Yes, the bill has been rejected. A draft law banning human reproductive cloning, registration number 3706, is under consideration. National deputy of Ukraine, Billowal Alexander Mikolayovich, reports. Is there a Billoval? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u188	Reverend Adam Ivanovich, high - ranking colleagues! Today, the urgent issue of considering such a bill banning human reproductive cloning has come to light. Because of the social and ethical situation, it is now matured in relation to the requirements of State regulation of foreign nations in relation to ethical issues. We have approached this question with great responsibility today. First of all, the bill is designed to protect society from the possible consequences, the negative consequences of reproductive cloning. Today, we can judge that situation differently. But when a person is intruding on his own today, that is, scientists, scientists, or the very existence of a person, he is not responsible for it, tying himself to some genetic aspect, it has a very negative effect. And from a legal point of view, when we talk about human cloning, it conflicts with a number of the most important personality rights that we are talking about today: the rights to human dignity, personality integrity, and so forth. Today, whatever we say, but the number of cloning experiments that have been conducted in various parts of the world on animals, on humans, tend to give negative statistics. And as we have seen today, it is a very serious pain not only of man but of all the nations of the world. Thus, most of the organisms that are absorbed in cloning, as a result of all these methods, have very serious life defects, and the vitality of the organisms is virtually not adapted to the environment. So speaking of this method, the ban on the method of cloning itself has become widespread both in other countries of our world and in Europe. So 27 countries in Europe signed an additional protocol on the prohibition of human cloning, which states regarding the European Conventions on Human Rights and Biomedicine in 1997 and in the preamble to the Additional Protocol, to which we should pay attention, it is said and noted that the instrumentalization of human beings is not compatible with human dignity by means of the creation, deliberate creation of genetically identical human beings. And so it turns out to be, first of all, the abuse of medicine and biology. Thus, even at this time, there is a lack of additional protocol that distinguishes between reproductive and therapeutic planning. And those signed documents, which were in Nice in 200, the Charter of the European Union on Fundamental Rights, set out a ban on reproductive cloning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u189	Thank you. Complete, but please submit the Rules of Procedure to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u190	So, very honourable colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to draw very serious attention to this law, because by compiling this law we are practically violating the ethical rights of Ukrainian citizens and, based on the experience of foreign affairs, we must follow the developed path of European Charter on Medicine. Thank you for your attention. And taking advantage of the opportunity to adopt this law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u191	From the committee, please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u192	Lilia Grigorovich, Committee for the Health of Motherhood and Childhood Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Maternal Health and Childhood Health reviewed at its meeting the draft Act on the Prohibition of Human Reproductive Cloning, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Alexander Volkov and Alexander Billow. Undoubtedly, the decryption of the genes of humans is, of course, an important achievement of modern science. However, cloning a person as a creature is unacceptable in terms of ethics. This is highlighted in many important treaties and conventions that were attended by a colleague of Bill’s, reporting on the bill. And so I will not focus on the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Dignity, on the General Declaration on the Human Genome, I will only say that the bill introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council prohibits reproductive cloning of human beings and banning imports into Ukraine and removals from Ukraine of cloned human embryos. And that's how it takes into account all of the above-mentioned contracts and declarations. These are the corresponding positions of international legal acts. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Offices, it is proposed not to adopt a separate national legislation to prohibit human reproductive cloning. Such a proposal is motivated by the fact that such a ban is envisaged by international treaties involving Ukraine. However, the above general declaration on the human genome and human rights does not have the force of an international treaty, and the convention on human rights and biomedicine in Ukraine, though initial, has not yet been ratified. In the light of the above, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood believes that the first reading of the draft Law on the Prohibition of Human Reproductive Cloning introduced by Ukraine’s national deputies, Billowol and Volkovsky, can be considered as a basis. The draft decision from the mentioned question is also added. And now, dear colleagues, I'd like to add a few more words. You know, the essence of this question is somewhere not only within the limits of ethics but also within the limits of morality, philosophy, and spirituality. If we are to preserve this world, we must preserve it for our firstborn and for man. The bill is specifically called upon to serve such a noble purpose. And I urge you to support him in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u193	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. In short, Adam no longer needs to be touched, his ribs too, right? Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Karmazin. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u194	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! We've heard different points of view with you in this regard. What the Law needs and what needs to be done, but it's not exactly necessary, so I understand from the speech of my charming colleague, Lilia Grigorovich, and I will express such a point of view that yes, of course, we refer to the beings that were created for us and gave us the soul to feel everything and see and answer. But what I'd like to say is that this project prohibits the reproductive, reproductive cloning of human beings, based on the principles of respect for human beings, the recognition of the value of personality, the need to protect human rights, freedoms, and the lack of research into the biological social consequences of human cloning. So let's see if we need a bill or not? If we study our legislation carefully, article 9 of the Constitution says that international acts that are valid and ratified international treaties are part of our national legislation and thus do not require any other legal regulation. These norms, based on what Ukraine has signed and ratified the general declaration on the human genome and human rights of 97, article 11 of which clearly prohibits the reproductive cloning of human beings as an insult to human dignity. We have also signed and ratified an emphasis convention on the protection of human rights and dignity, which, prior to the application of biology and medicine, is briefly called the 97th Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which also provided for the proper protection of the embryo, even prohibiting the cultivation of human embryos for research purposes. Not to mention reproductive cloning. That's why I don't think there's any need for this legislation to be adopted, but if some countries have already gone on the principle that they have adopted such legislative acts in their national legislation, but they have adopted before, before the year 98, before they came to all the countries of the Council of Europe to the member states and to the UN with a proposal at the legislative level to ban cloning. And we, like Ukraine, as a state, have responded and done everything right. If we take such a legislative act, it won't do any harm, even though it won't do any good, because we've already joined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u195	Thank you. Please, Solomatin, prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u196	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the previous speaker, he made it quite clear that according to the scientific and expert management's conclusion, and by reason of common sense, the legislators of the additional documents on this subject do not seem to have to be accepted, because Ukraine has already made the right commitments. But I would like to touch on a slightly different question that relates to human cloning. This is a very interesting phrase in the note that explains the bill: given this, the bill provides for a ban on reproductive cloning only and does not apply to therapeutic cloning, which is the subject of further scientific and public debates, with the following definition of its legal status. Therapeutic cloning is the growing of stem cells in a tube in order to protect human health. So let's think about what kind of person you are. Or can an ordinary person, an average little Ukrainian, with that level of health care, expect someone to buy them to repair their health. This is not foreseen in this bill, but some warnings are already being made regarding the existence of such proposals, and there is such an effort for some part of our capitalist society or their capitalist society to create conditions for large money to create human cloning in the probe and use these stem cells to make the health of its capital propensity. That's what we've come up with. It's not there yet, but our society is creating an atmosphere of what we can talk about, and we can move forward one step at a time. We know how this is done in the example of the orange revolution, when the clone of the orange revolutions took place step by step. Yugoslavia, Georgia, Ukraine and Romania now. That's why we're against cloning anything and the cell of human, and the orange revolutions, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u197	The word is derived from Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, a faction of socialists. Get ready for Yavorowski. Please, Melniczuk's microphone from the spot. I'm tired of going to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u198	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. The faction has been defined. We will support and vote in favour of this bill, of course. And yet we would like the bill to be presented in this regard, we understand that it is aimed at creating legislative barriers. And whoever's not doing it in the therapeutic or whatever is going to be adopted by Parliament today, I'm sure if there's enough votes, because there aren't many deputies in the room anymore. Adam Ivanovich, I just got a call from the Cherniewecki district of Novoselicki district and was asked to thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on the situation in the village. Thank you. And I want to take another look. That's not why I said on this point that I want to be beautiful in the rostrum, and I want today's government, which the President, by giving us the opportunity to work on, and Parliament has expressed mistrust, to do what he promised the villagers. And for that reason, I got a call from the Novoselts, saying that there's still a huge debt on the farm for the cattle of the high-nourished condition of the past year, this year. And that's why the villagers are worried. A new government will come, will it dump on another government or what? Let those who are working today do exactly what they promised the villagers, because failure will be considered, as they have only fooled the villagers once more, that from the high rostrums they have said that they are behind the village, that they are behind the development of the village, and that they have actually committed a crime against the villagers, against the Ukrainian village. And so, as a national deputy, I refer once again to the acting prime minister, to those government officials: dear friends, do what you promised, in front of the villagers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, Mikhail Vasilovich! Vladimir Mihajlovich, opening the session today, announced that there would be an economic bloc meeting tomorrow with representatives of factions and parliamentary groups, and with the budget committees on the subject, where a specific discussion would take place. First, on the budget for the following year and accordingly on the implementation of the budget this year. So tomorrow you have the opportunity to say, not by phone and microphone, but by yourself. Please, Yavori's Vladimir Aleksandrovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u200	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkwa, Lviv. Dear Legislators! We are convinced again today that because of all our colossal respect for science, she often has Mephistophel behind her back with a wicked smile. And here we have really this moment, obviously we can also talk about nuclear energy, which has also brought great tragedies to our nation, let's say. And what science has come to some point today, and we want to stop it from coming to this other side -- human cloning -- no longer. I'm sure it's very normal. And I think the fate of this bill is very normal, and it will be completely accepted. I would like to say right away that cloning in every sphere -- both physiological and ideological, and cultural -- is everywhere alien to human nature, human unity, human uniqueness, because, in fact, we've been cloning this "Soviet man" for about 70 years, and we know what it ended up like -- just some huge protest. And to my colleague Solomon, whom I deeply respect, I would like to say, "Don't burn yourself, don't waste your health on this "orange revolution," for fuck's sake, did they seem to you? Think about yours. It was 70 years of exporting the Yellow Revolution and ideas of socialism, and where are they? Poor Korea, what ten grains of rice do they have per capita? Behold, they worshiped you, and you also have them. That's why I think you're voting for this bill too. I think it's a good thing we're going to pass this law because it's on the hall floor, and Alexander Volkov confirmed that Medvedchuk has filed his resignation. I mean, the closest associates leave Leonid Danilovich, they leave him, the poor guy, on his own. I once promised to protect him. And I really want to protect myself. Imagine if we had cloning, now Leonid Danilovich would press the button, and the same Medvedchuk would be standing next to him again. But this law forbids it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u201	Please, Hiccup. I can't see. Hinzburg Olga Petrovna From the spot, microphone from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u202	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Hinzburg, Communist faction. We will, the faction of Communists, support this law, because for our society we would not be able to accept human cloning, and it is unpleasant for us today. But I took the line and took the floor to say that you can't speak to Mr. Yavorovski today in Soviet times, because he became a man at the time, and the Communist Party that ruled at the time had a lot of other laws for people, and there was no talk of cloning. Then we talked about how to teach our children, how to count our old people, how to rest them, how to live our nation, what place to have in the world. There were no other conversations. And the laws on cloning were not considered at that time either. And I just want to say that we will uphold this law, it is timely, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u203	Thank you. Question completed. Now. They were called names. Don't scream, I hear you. The names of Solomon and Jaborius were called, after a minute of replication, please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u204	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Here a colleague of mine mentioned that it was as if a Soviet man had been zombied, cloned, and she was incapable of anything other than following orders from her leaders. And so on, offensive words. I want to remind my colleague that it was the Soviet people who were raised in a spirit of respect for their great Fatherland, the Motherland of Soviets, the Motherland of Socialists, who broke the back of the fascist beast and saved all mankind from a brown plague. Now such a plague is being rekindled in our territories. And the Soviets will break this plague too!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u205	Please, Yavorowski, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u206	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Hinzburg and Mr. Solomatine! I'm not mad at you at all. On behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine" and personally I forgive you, speak further, the more you say, the more interesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u207	Please, from the Ministry of Health, First Deputy Minister Pedchenko Timur Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u208	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! It is a pleasure to see the professional opinion of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in full agreement with the position of the session hall. So we suggest that we adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u209	Thank you. Let's be clear. But Cherniak disagrees with that. Please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I just don't agree with the idea that the bill doesn't have to be adopted. I agree with the idea that it should be accepted. Of course, Parliament ratified the general declaration on the human genome and human rights, as well as the European Council Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity. But these are international conventions, and we need a special law to ban cloning. I don't think this school is going to do us any good or anything else, because in a separate, special law, we're fixing Parliament's position. And we're entering into the legislative field of Ukraine, the ban on human cloning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u211	Thank you. Let's be clear. It's better that science doesn't come to this, but if it does, let's protect ourselves from science in this respect. Yes, I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee and practically everyone who's been involved in the discussion of the adoption issue as a basis for the first reading of the draft Human Reproductive Cloning Act, registration number 3706. Please vote. [[13:45:42]] For 229 Copy that. Is there no objection to accepting as law? You don't? Then, please, I'm putting to the vote a motion for the adoption of the draft Human Reproductive Cloning Act, registration number 3,706 as a law. Please vote. [[13:46:20]] For 253 The law is passed. Well, by factions, to see whose merit, please. "Our Ukraine" wasn't working -- 56, "Regions of Ukraine" -- 2, Communists -- 58, Social Democrats -- 0, National Agrarian Party -- 21, Socialists -- 20, One Ukraine -- 18, Block Timoshenko 19, Union -1, Labour Ukraine -- 7, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -- 1, 13, Center - 8, Democratic Initiatives - 4, Non-Frakational - 14. [[Good]] The draft Law on State Social Assistance to First-Group Persons with Disabilities is being complied with. [[Registration number 2351]] National MP Volinec Mikhailo Jakovic will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u212	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! According to article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, other forms of social pay and assistance, which are the main source of existence, should ensure that the standard of living is not lower than the subsistence minimum laid down by law. My draft law provides for the guarantee to the disabled of the first group of persons with disabilities of the right to material security at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine and their social protection through the establishment of state social assistance at the minimum of living. Why is it for the disabled? This group of people with limited capabilities is the most vulnerable population. This category of citizens is largely out of work, receiving a meager pension, thus depriving them of the right to medical treatment, health care, and even nutrition. In order to implement this bill, it will require a sum of 122 million dollars a year to be foreseen in the 2005 State Budget. The sources of the necessary additional financial resources are proposed to determine the increase in income from the general fund of the State as a result of the removal of the portion of the benefits to households operating in special economic zones and areas of priority development. But as far as my bill was written earlier than the government's, and adopted by number 1727 of 18 May 2004, as the Law on State Social Assistance for Persons Without the Right to Retirement and Persons with Disabilities, and which provides for slightly appropriate and better conditions for the pension of the first group's persons with disabilities, I therefore agree with the decision of the first-reading committee to finalize the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u213	Thank you. That way we can support the author and vote. Yes, please, from the Professional Committee Secretary of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, dear friends, I would like first of all to express my gratitude to National Deputy Michael Yakovlewich Wolinz, who has joined in on this subject. In order to facilitate the situation of the disabled by sight, but I won't take up much of the time, both the Committee and the Government, and you are the national deputies for this time while this bill was moving towards hearing made much better standards that are provided for in Ukrainian legislation in normative acts and certainly that these rules are out of date today, so request and proposal, in accordance with the decision of the Committee of Profiles on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, to make a decision on the draft for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u215	Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Have a seat, please. There's no question, because it's a reduced procedure, so, well, there's an insistence on those who signed up. Please, Puzakov, the Communist faction, prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u216	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The changes and proposals made to the bill will contribute to improving the vitality of persons with disabilities, as well as to promoting State guarantees for the social welfare of young citizens with disabilities. But from this rostrum, I am repeatedly calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to help solve the severe socio-economic problems of the most disadvantaged part of my fellow countrymen, the disabled by sight. In the Kyrovograd district organization UTOS, there are 1,175 disabled people in the first and second categories of disgrace, 70 percent of those of older age, children with disabilities, war veterans, and labor. In the area, there are two enterprises for blind people in Kirovograd and Alexandria. Under market conditions, these enterprises maintained special rehabilitation structures on their own. At present, as a result of the competitive struggle of companies in the U.T.A. system, disabled people cannot afford to work on the basis of wages, medical services, recreation, housing, and so forth. During the years of independence of Ukraine, civil organizations and disabled enterprises in the U.K.U.S. have lost a number of positive gains that have been obtained through hard and hard work, namely, a significant decline in wages, increased competition in the unregulated market, decreased production volumes due to the decline in demand, the inability to develop new products, and the inability to keep the social sphere in proper condition. On the basis of the above, I propose the following questions. Decide at the national level to provide aid to disabled people in the first and second categories of eyesight at the expense of utilities and energy. And families, where two or more disabled persons are in sight, can be set free completely. To supplement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of September 12, 1991, by legalizing free travel for an accompanying disabled person in the sight of the first group. Increase the amount of the disability allowance in the first group's view and provide for a 50-percent discount by law for the treatment of the blind with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u217	Thank you. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine", followed by Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u218	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank National Deputy Wolin for his interest in this issue and also to thank him for his courage to decide that this bill should be worked out. But when I see in the conclusions that we have, the Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky, who is the Deputy Acting Minister of Ukraine today, Mikola Janović Azarov, who says that we need to see an additional 122.7 million dollars for implementation. And that's when the government is looking for funds to raise wages, scholarships and other social benefits. That's why we don't see the possibility. But I see answers from the first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, who also says that there is no money. I mean, Your Honor, do you remember what our Victor Fedorovich Janukovic was talking about? He said it was enough for all the money. Not ours, but the dismissed Prime Minister, for whom I have never voted and will not vote. So, honourable national MPs, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that we're all being totally deceived with you. Now the draft State Budget Act has been distributed. And do we see the budget implementation report? Did you know that on April 1st, taxes were already collected and collected? I'm addressing the so-called old Attorney General Piscoon. Mr. Piscoun, a year and two months ago, money was accumulated for the election: three or four months in advance for all regions of Ukraine. I mean, the government claims that there's an increase in GDP. What's the GDP growth? In four months, taxes were collected in advance. What's the increase, ladies and gentlemen? We need to break a criminal case, and we need to report immediately on how much these payments have been increased. And then we'll know clearly. And now. I would like to see that when this bill is being drafted, it is identified by the first group as being completely blind. What's that? So we can settle. This time. And the second. The Health Minochron’s instruction predicts that the first group of people with disabilities are set up for persons with disabilities who need constant foreign care — not completely blind. This limit is going to be-- it's totally blind to give. So I'd like this to be taken into account, I'm talking to the author and to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this morning's meeting for a few minutes -- until this matter is resolved. Please, Katusheva, follow her to school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u220	The question of State social assistance to first-group persons with disabilities would certainly require a solution. Unfortunately, this issue has gone on for a long time. The first project was registered in 2002, but so far the project has not been reviewed and has not received sufficient attention. I would like to emphasize once again that persons with disabilities are the most vulnerable part of the population. First of all, people with disabilities are visually impaired. According to the Ukrainian Society of the Blind, there are 25,000 people in Ukraine. 751 persons with disabilities of the first sighting group, including about 15,000 persons with disabilities. - they're totally blind. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the interests I represent are one thousand 319 people. These are the disabled of the first sighting group. Every reasonable person understands that visually impaired people need constant supervision and care. Of course, it is necessary to pay for the supervision. The same category of citizens, who generally do not work and receive only 50 per cent of the minimum wage, is deprived of the right not only to treatment, recovery, but, unfortunately, to normal nutrition. The bill proposes the introduction of a procedure for the material provision of persons with disabilities to the first vision group through the State budget. State social assistance is provided for the disabled of the first vision group, for the totally blind, for 70 per cent of the subsistence minimum, for the other categories of persons with disabilities of the first vision group, and for a 30 per cent subsistence allowance for those persons with disabilities. The worst part is that the interests of this category are in fact ignored in the State. The fact is that there are a number of rehabilitation centres for persons with disabilities in Ukraine, but they do not specialize in helping visually impaired people. Another disadvantage of this system of social protection is the lack of specialized sanatoriums that could accommodate persons with disabilities. We have one such sanatorium in the Eupatoria, but unfortunately it is only able to accommodate 1,100 and 1200 people and only works during the summer period. And there are 48,000 of them. Imagine if they could receive qualified help and receive normal treatment? The large issue and the lack of educational facilities for blind people specializing in employment. I express the interests of the Communist Party, and I believe that the early adoption of this Act on State social assistance for persons with disabilities of the first vision group is simply necessary, as this is the reason why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u221	Thank you. Please, School Andrew, faction of the Block of Timoshenko, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u222	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that this bill touches, you know, the categories of people who are considered to be, well, the whole world, and including Ukraine, the most disadvantaged people, because they don't have what we have -- they don't have eyes, they're totally blind people. And that's why I'm convinced that this is a very important, very clear, very organic approach to the protection of their rights, because we can't, the defense of God, speculate on this, it's a sin not only in front of society, but before the law in general. But I would like to point out that the proposal made by the author of the law on re-reading is not intended to slow down the process, not to stop it or simply to improve it for improvement, but to the effect that the government at the time the Prime Minister was running for Presidential office was clearly using disabled people who were disabled as goods or as bait. They offered better proposals than MPs. They were preparing the law. Ah, you suggest higher prices, higher prices, higher retention rates -- we give even higher rates. We're going to talk about the minimum of living, we're going to raise this minimum of living. And on this competition, the truth is, people with disabilities win, it makes them happy, it's the only thing that can make them feel better. But once again, if we adopt the bill proposed by our colleague, in principle it will come out to speed up the process, to reduce the number of financial opportunities the disabled receives. That's why I think it's worth it very quickly, and I think the committee is going to help bring up the following terms -- to work out, to give a full bill that would take into account the features and the better qualities of our colleague, and the Cabinet of Ministers, including. Because our colleague suggests that we improve not only by increasing the retention rate but also by separating it into a single category of totals. People, and that's right and fair. Because it's a category that needs the biggest one, like me, from the point of view of the state. Because there's only one conversation and there's not enough funding, there's a lot of attention. You need special books, you need special computer, software, technology -- which converts people who don't see with their own eyes who can work, who can work, who can provide themselves without, ever, I think this time will come without extra pay. We're going to mention the Minister of Interior of England, which is the best confirmation that in free, democratic states, physical defects are not an obstacle to career growth. So I encourage you in the first reading, or you put the first reading back on with the committee redrafting, giving us a quality, full law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u223	Exclusion is in order, given that the coreporter has saved time, please, for the conclusion of one minute - Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u224	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! I just want you to understand the situation under this bill, which is actually meant to be positive, but it's instead of giving state aid 100 percent totally. He's offering 7 percent. No, because the author wants to do worse because the standard is already 100 percent and so on. I'm not going to call all the standards. So I encourage you to read again. And I very much ask you, fellow believers, that we remember that it's not about people with disabilities, as the bills say, that we're a little confused or something? Let us keep in mind the electoral right of persons with disabilities, which, unfortunately, is being discriminated against in these elections and is a reality. I'm telling you, it's no fun. Let's think about what is now going to be a bill that eliminates the benefits to the social organizations of the disabled to their institutions on the ground and so on. Please support in the first, rereading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's prepare for the vote. The situation was understood that by the time the draft was considered in the session hall, the bill was adopted. A law that improves situations rather than what is proposed today. So here, clearly, let's support the proposal of the author of the bill and the profile committee to refer him back to the first reading. Please vote. [[2:05:52]] For 254 The bill is directed at re-reading the first reading. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Opening of the evening session at 0 16 hours.
