ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:12]] Registered -406 A total of 406 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! According to the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, two informations from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the status of conservation of sociocultural objects in the process of privatization and their purpose in the post-privatization period will be presented by the head of the State Property Fund, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechev. As well as a summary of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2003 and of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the organization of rest and the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2004, as reported by the minister in the family, children, and young Valentina Ivanovna Longzhenko. I would like to remind you that according to the U.S. Government Day, the report on each issue of the report takes 15 minutes and within an hour and a half to answer the written, oral questions. Within five minutes for the presentation of the profile committee and up to 20 minutes for the debate on the subject. But since we're looking at two things today, and only the morning meeting is held for the Government Day, I suggest you, dear fellows, cut short the time to answer the questions within an hour so that we can spend Government Day up to 14 hours. Is there no objection? Please, Rachansky Anatoly Warfolomyovich, with the order of conduct. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Regarding discussion of the second issue of child recovery, I propose and ask for support. This is a very important issue for the future of our nation. Take time, not 20 minutes, but 40 minutes to discuss the matter. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. If you have no objection, and you support this idea, we won't be taking a break at 12 o'clock, we'll just have 50 minutes to talk about it. Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, microphone. Then Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u4	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm here to support my colleague, Rahansky, regarding this discussion of time and the answer to the question. In view of the fact that the first question and the second question are closely linked to each other, it is less than five minutes ’ notice, since in five minutes you will not tell what is happening today in the postprivatization period and during the privatization period, especially in the social sphere. And I'm still asking for 20 minutes with Catherine Semina to give us a clear opportunity to talk about the tension that today is in the post-privatization period in the social sphere, which is closely linked to the immediate and the issue that Catherine Seminovna is raising. I think that's the rule proposed by the Special Monitoring Commission, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please support. I think the answer for 20 minutes is going to be just fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u5	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u6	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the constituency of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to propose to support you in that you offer to finish before the second hour and without interruption even, but to reduce everything proportionally. That is, the speech should be scaled down proportionally and agree with Valentina Semenyuk's proposal that co-reporters have. The important thing for us to have is that if we ask a question in a minute, there has to be an answer in a minute. Because we know what the main minutes are going on, the main minutes go on, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And that depends on you if you give short answers. Then more people will be able to ask questions. Considering that there are only 100 with an extra man in the hall, it is up to everyone to ask who is concerned about it in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Let's start working, and then we'll see, because we have a broadcast in 14 hours. If you have any insistence, we will continue. But according to the Rules, I can say that we have 15 minutes for information, to answer a written question for 30 minutes, to an oral question within one hour of the issue being considered. Next, the committee members have a functional orientation that relates to the subject of the day, up to five minutes, and a discussion takes place for twenty minutes. We'll follow the Rules, if we look there, well, a little bit more. I can put it to a vote. But, you know, we won't be able to. Let's figure out ten minutes for the co-reporters. Is there no objection? Then let's get down to business. Valentina Semenovna, I can put it to a vote, but, you know, the result will be negative. Because we have two information. We're just wasting our time. I invite you to come to the information from the first question of the Head of the State Property Fund, Chechchev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government! The crisis in Ukraine's economy over the 1990s has severely limited the financial capacity of the state, which has not been able to implement social programs fully. Under the conditions of under-budget financing, under-development of alternative non-budgetary financing mechanisms, low efficiency in the use of available funds has deteriorated significantly, and the material and technical state of cultural and artistic institutions, cinematography, has decreased the level of cultural services for the population, medical care. During the time of the planned economy, almost every manufacturing company built clubs, recreation bases, prophylaxis, kindergartens, dining rooms, and other social infrastructures. This is particularly true of urban enterprises that have developed social infrastructure, which serves not only the employees of the enterprise but also the inhabitants of a residential area. However, the social sphere was financed by a so - called residual principle. This has had a negative impact on the material and technical basis of social infrastructure. As a result, there are clubs, kindergartens, other objects that are not used at all, which in time leads to their destruction, and stores, night clubs, are located in the rooms of these children’s gardens of various firms. In other words, the limited financial capacity of enterprises does not contribute to the development of social infrastructure in the country. The social situation did not allow it to be postponed for later periods. There is a need to reorganize property and financial and economic relations in the social sphere in order to bring them into line with and in the overall direction of economic reform. Thus, the Presidential Decree of October 18, 1997 "On the Basic Directions of Social Policy for the years 1997-2000" stated that one of the strategic objectives of social policy at the state level is to significantly improve social infrastructure and, at the regional level, to reform social infrastructure. By 1998, there was no systematic approach to solving problems of preserving sociocultural objects, except for the transfer of such objects to municipal property. However, the process of transferring state property to municipal property was slow because of the lack of funds from local budgets to maintain sociocultural infrastructure. Therefore, in 1998 a legislative decision was taken to preserve socio-cultural objects by privatizing them. Such a national privatization programme for 1998 is the first legislative act to regulate the principles and mechanisms of privatization of social objects. Another legal and regulatory act that drew attention to the problem of burdening enterprises with non-productive objects is the Presidential Decree of 16 November 2000 on additional measures to strengthen the fight against corruption, other illegal activities in the socio-economic sphere and to ensure the economic spending of public funds, aimed at substantially reducing costs of maintaining socio-economic objects at the expense of budgetary resources, public enterprises and households that are part of public property. According to the classification of privatization objects set up by the current State Privatization Program, the selected objects, regardless of the cost and the sources of financing that are of social importance, are identified in a separate group of J. During the period 1998 to 10 months 2003, 710 "Z" units of state ownership were privatized in Ukraine. Yes, the competitive principles privatized 58.6 percent of the total number of items: 41.3 percent by ransom, and 0.1 percent by sale of shares by the state, in households. In addition, 48 sociocultural objects, which, according to the classification of privatization objects, were related to other groups, were privatized by the sale of shares belonging to the State and the company. We must not overlook the importance that social infrastructures have for each of us. The social sphere is called upon to satisfy man’s various needs, contributing to both spiritual and physical development. All of this calls for a balanced approach to the process of dissipating social infrastructure that is individualized with both the activity profile and the location of a particular object. Legislation and regulations have established strict requirements for the preservation of existing social infrastructure. This must take into account the positions of central and local executives. Moreover, according to their proposals, the privatisation authorities determine the terms and conditions for the sale of sociocultural objects. Such conditions include the purchaser’s obligation to preserve the activity profile, save and create jobs, redesign of environmental protection measures, and compliance with environmental standards. At the same time, the terms and conditions for the sale of certain objects include the introduction of the retailer’s benefits. the population and the most socially vulnerable categories of citizens through the services of the institution. In order to ensure openness and transparency in the resolution process, the privatization authorities are taking steps to ensure that it is provided in the information bulletins of the privatization bodies and the local press. However, it should be noted that the legislative regulation of the social dissipation process does not mean that all social infrastructure objects are privatized everywhere. The State Property Fund has never held that position. One of the main tasks of privatization is to find new owners, responsible, capable and interested in providing social and cultural facilities. The process of rational reform of the socio-cultural sphere takes into account the specificities of the relevant sector in specific institutions. A number of legislative acts establish both the characteristics of privatization and the prohibition of privatization of social and cultural objects. Understanding society’s needs in a social networking network is guided by the principle of balance when considering privatization of sociocultural objects. A major emphasis is placed on the new owner’s obligations to ensure the operation of the object by its appointment. Thus, 22 sociocultural objects were privatized in the Luhansk region, none of which were operational at the time of privatization. They were unsatisfying because of the lack of funds in the maintenance and security buffers. At the same time, the nine clubs that were in an accident at the time of privatization sold six items with their profile preserved, and three without retaining the profile in which, for today, two buildings with residential and commercial objects were equipped with one object under the church. It is important to stress that, in order to prevent further destruction of social infrastructure and its preservation, priority privatization is primarily due to those objects that do not function, are in an emergency or are leased. Thus, at the time of privatization, almost 41 percent of the total number of socio-cultural objects on sale did not work. In accordance with the requirements of the State Privatisation Programme, only socio-cultural objects that have not functioned for more than three years or are in an emergency may be re-identified by agreement with local self-government authorities. With the activity profile being preserved, 66 percent of the total number of privatized social sites has been privatized. Privatization of social infrastructure objects has a positive impact on both the financial situation of the enterprise on which such facilities are balanced and on the state of the social sphere itself. Thus, social inclusion of financial resources is a necessary factor in improving the condition of social infrastructure. In this regard, privatization of social sites is one way to attract real investment. It can therefore be argued that privatization is a precaution against further decommissioning of the social sphere. In addition, it is necessary to determine that in the last two years there has been an increase in the interest of buyers in the acquisition of social goods. Healthy competition improves both the quality of services and the condition of the objects themselves. The arrival of new owners is usually accompanied by investment in reconstruction and modernization. objects. So the terms of the contracts for the sale of socio-cultural objects provide for the arrival of funds for the development of enterprises during 1995-2010 for a total of around 238 million 671,000 dollars and 4 million $320,000. By November 1, 2003, 25 million and 111,000 dollars had already come in and some $3,023,000 had come in. The sale of control packages of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State may include requirements for maintaining sociocultural objects. So according to the stock-sales agreements of November 1, 2003, more than 96 million dollars have already been paid to keep socio-cultural objects on the business balance sheet. In the event of non-compliance with the terms and conditions of the contracts, the state-owned privatization authorities are conducting a work of call for them to be disrupted and returned to state property. At present, seven contracts have been broken by court decision, and 20 contracts have led to call-and-call work. Social and cultural infrastructure requires constant costs to maintain the facilities at a sufficient level, including current and capital repairs, salaries for staff, land tax and utilities, etc. Some objects, for example, function only during the summer period. Thus, after studying the economic indicators of the enterprise, such as the VAT Poltava Medical Glass Plant, it was concluded that it was cheaper to buy trips to the health of their employees than to keep the rest base on their balance. In the process of privatization, public privatization authorities perform the functions of managing such objects. In order to improve the efficient management of objects, these management methods are used: privatization, transfer to utility property, rental. State privatization bodies shall carry out checks on the proper use of these objects in the event of verifications of State damage caused by improper use or destruction of the privatization body, work shall be done to remedy detected violations, recourse shall be made to law enforcement authorities, audit authorities, arbitral tribunals to the management of farm societies for the recovery of the damaged manoeuvring and damages to the State of damage, construction and restructuring of rental contracts. The transfer of socio-cultural objects that have not entered the statutory funds of agricultural societies in the process of privatization into municipal property is regulated by the Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights. According to legislation, transfers of objects to municipal property are carried out along with technical documentation. This is an elementary issue, an act of acceptance, plans of external work(?) and so on. Oh, my God!!!!Oh, my Regrettably, the appropriate materials are usually not available at the company and are not sometimes subject to renewal, making them more difficult to transfer. Most of the objects are in neglected condition, and local authorities, once again the lack of sources of funding generally show no willingness to take them into municipal property. In accordance with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 9 March 2000, "Some measures to improve the management of non-state agricultural enterprises" are envisaged for the transfer of social goods on the balance sheet of non-state enterprises to the communal property of territorial communities, provided that their network and their functional assignment are maintained. To date, some 70 percent of social infrastructure has been transferred to rural and rural councils. But the agro-industry industry is still balancing about six and a half thousand socio-cultural facilities. About five percent of these objects have been reclassified and are staffed. All of this is caused by the lack of funds in the agricultural sector to bring social facilities into proper condition and by changes in the demographic situation in the countryside, such as the decline in the number of preschool children and young people. One way to attract investment to improve the activities of social and cultural objects is to create societies with statutory funds transferred by the State to property, property rights, and other assets of socio - cultural objects, and from non - state investors to funds. At present, the fund has a lot of stocks, parts of nine of them. The establishment of company documents provides a commitment to the use of these objects by destination and to the preservation of their identity. These companies do not have a long-term loan, and in four businesses there has been a net increase in profits. Particular attention should be paid to the exclusion of socio-cultural objects beyond the rules of privatization legislation. The collection by the executive services of corporate debt amounts takes place on the basis of the assets of the enterprise, including those of the social sector. In doing so, such alienation takes place without the obligation of new objects of their own to preserve the profile of their activities. In the face of radical economic transformation, it is largely successful to preserve the previously created social infrastructure, and it is gradually being seen to emerge at a qualitatively new level, to form a favourable economic and legal regime for the functioning of socio-cultural institutions, regardless of the form of ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions. Please sign up for the questions. One in writing and one directly from the deputies. Let's make it stop. What are the names of the national deputies on the board? Boris Bespali, then a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u10	Boris Bespalij, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, the city of Kiev. I have a question. So you represent, in this case, the State Property Fund. As I understand it, the first task of the fund is to manage the property and not just privatize it. In the meantime, you have the impression that you are more involved in social affairs, your fund is privatization than maintenance. Perhaps he does, so these objects are in such a state. And one more question I have is very specific. In this case, I represent the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, and there are many cases where social objects are transferred to the balance of urban, rural, city councils, that is, to territorial communities without adequate financial, other material security. That is, the territorial communities are in a state of impoverishment. Here are some steps you will take to ensure that each transfer is accompanied by adequate material resources, otherwise the situation of these objects and the situation of the children and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u11	Thank you so much for the interesting questions. Which concerns the first question of privatization. I stressed in the presentation that we do not focus on privatization of the social sphere. We set the main goal of preserving the social sphere. But in order to preserve the social sphere, there are various forms of governance. And the transfer to municipal property and the lease, and in that case, the possibility of transferring to enterprises, but if there's no funds in the enterprise or in the local community for preservation, and this business is in a disgraceful state, there's a problem involving a private investor already. And because of privatization, it's going to involve investments that can save this enterprise. So once again, I stress that the main objective of the State Property Fund is not to privatize the social sphere, and the main goal is to preserve it, but to get out of specific conditions. Which concerns that, in fact, today, unfortunately, not all the local authorities, the city communities, they don't always want to take on the communal sphere because there's no relative financial resources. And in this case, I want to say that the government sees a solution to this problem only by strengthening the economy of the state. Last year was the best in 12 years in economic terms for the state. This year, the positive dynamics of these indicators are projected, the state’s economy will increase, the income of the budget, and the social spending will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u12	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u13	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, Social Monitoring Commission on Privatization. "Are the government's scientifically defined standards for providing areas, areas, cities, towns, villages, social and cultural objects, taking into account their demographic and other characteristics, in accordance with the partnership and cooperation agreement between European societies, and with Member States, and Ukraine, with a view to aligning Ukraine's legislation with the European Union's legislation on socio-cultural development?" In order to preserve the existing network of culturally negative processes, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved appropriate standards for providing the population with libraries and club facilities that are listed in the State Classification of Social Standards. This is the Cabinet Regulation of 30.05. 97: "Minimum social standards for public libraries in Ukraine," Government Regulation of 12.11.98 "On standards for the provision of population by club establishments" and others. The government is now in the process of developing scientifically based standards for the provision of social and cultural objects to the population. But we were going to develop these norms -- we need to put up a proper financial base. And the corresponding financial base will only be taken down by strengthening the economy of the state, as I said in answer to the last question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u14	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u15	First of all, thank you for the rich, brief and comprehensive report. Secondly, I would like to ask your opinion: do you not think it would be useful to leave the money paid for the sale of sociocultural sites, especially in rural areas, there, in the territory, to support the remaining facilities or to build a new one? That's the first question. And the second question. You said it was the right thing to do. But given that we have adopted a VAT standard, including socio-cultural facilities, sports facilities, we can have all these facilities out of work in the near future. Don't you think that together with you, they have to do everything they can to remove VAT from these objects?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u16	The first question concerns the need to ensure that the cost of privatizing social objects does not go to the State Budget, to the State Treasury, but rather to invest in this social sphere in order to preserve these objects and to continue to function. This is a national issue and it can be said that both so and so. We're going to be introducing a privatization programme, and when we look at privatization programmes in the Supreme Council, if most of the people's deputies vote that we don't drive them through the State budget, we leave them in places to support the social sphere, I think that's going to be a state decision. But that takes 226 votes in the room. As far as the value added tax is concerned, the Supreme Council has already made some changes. I think if you bring it in, what you're talking about, it won't get any worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u17	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u18	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. "Is he planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u20	"Is the government planning to take further measures to increase the income of local budgets in 2004 and subsequent years to finance socio-cultural objects in the administration of local self-government authorities for their effective use?" The answer. The total expenditure taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers to education and culture and in the 2004 Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local government administrations and implementing bodies of the relevant councils is 14.7 percent and 21.3 percent higher than in 2003. In line with the projections of Ukraine's consolidated budget for the main types of expenditure income and the funding of 2005-2007 approved by the government's decision of 09.9.2003, expenditure on the maintenance of education facilities will be increased by 1 per cent in 2005 compared to 2004 in 2006, compared to 13 per cent in 2007, respectively, by 12.9 per cent. In 2005, expenditure on spiritual and physical development is projected at 2 billion 57 million dollars, in 2006 at 2 billion 469 million dollars, and in 2007 at 3 billion 523.8 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u21	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u22	Dear Michael Vasilovich! Nikolainka, a faction of socialists. I want to ask you a question. I know that today, even though there is some state control over privatization, especially when there are social sites privatizing, we have sad cases where, let's say, schools are fully privatized and even sold out. Well, let's say in the town of Herson when the factory was privatized. The Herson Combin factory was fully privatized by the PTU-1, which, by the decision of the government and your decision, was made into state property and even made a bet and was already sold out of hammer along with 800 children. A similar situation in New Kakhovka at the Falcon factory. Do we have today a register of state property for sociocultural purposes, a state register that is not privatized, but that is kept on the balance sheet of enterprises. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u23	As far as a register of property that is not privatized but kept on a business balance is concerned, such a register is in the State Property Fund base. Sadly, though, some objects, as in the early years of privatization, were transferred to statutory funds of enterprises, and to this day these objects are said to have a half meaning. On the one hand, it is an object of cultural significance, and on the other hand, from the point of view of ownership, it is already a property of shareholders and businesses and unfortunately some issues arise and can only be solved through courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u24	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u25	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u26	Let's ask other questions. There are others. Please be an MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u27	Last. Whether the central and local executive authorities are undertaking measures to preserve and ensure the purpose of social and cultural destination facilities privatized in whole or individual enterprise property complexes or their individual objects. The answer. In preparing social objects for sale, central and local executive authorities offer to preserve the activity profile and use terms. Compliance with the conditions for maintaining the activity profile is monitored by public bodies privatizing corresponding sales contracts. In the event that the conditions are not met, the privatisation authorities are subject to pretentious lawsuits, including the application of fines, the termination of contracts for sale and the return of objects to state property. In my report, I was stressing the number of contracts where we broke through the courts and returned to state property, and where we are judging the breakup of contracts where the investor is not fulfilling his obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u28	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u29	Thank you. As I will speak on this issue, I would like to take the floor to Mr. Solomatina Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u30	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u31	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I have a very specific question. Since 2000, the city of Kyiv, in the region of Glossiev, has been rehabilitated. But during this de facto reconstruction, it was re-profiled and is now being built instead of this community center, the country hypermarket and the Magellan supermarket. Questions. What can be done to ensure that such calamitous experiences, especially those of local authorities, do not occur? The other one. How to bring responsibility to those who have leniently treated such retraining.? And the third. What must be done to return to this object its primary assignment center? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u32	Thank you for asking and thank you for stressing that this was really the decision of the local authorities. As far as privatization is concerned, it is not the State Property Fund that initiates the privatization of the social sphere, but rather the government, the government authority, which manages it, and then the initiative agrees with the local authorities. And when they agree with the local authorities, only then does the State Property Fund fully agree with the local authorities and the profile of the enterprise, and the terms of privatization, and so on. So when you privatize the social sphere, the fund only performs the technical procedure of the fund's experts, and the direct decision is taken at the level of the Ministry and so on. But it's not about privatization, it's about retraining, it's about making decisions at the local level. I think it's only possible to get it back to the courts. But in my opinion, we probably need to adopt an appropriate piece of legislation that would make this aberration at the local level, when decisions are made that are not meant to preserve the social sphere, which significantly worsens the situation in these areas from the point of view of providing appropriate services to the social sphere. This should be adopted at the legislative level by the Supreme Council. It's only for trial now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u33	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u34	Widow of Hennady Josephovich, Human Rights Committee, National Minorities and International Relations. What steps are being taken by the government to comply with Ukrainian legislation in privatising enterprises, institutions in social infrastructure that have socio-cultural facilities for the purpose of using them in post-privatisation? Main goals, priorities. The answer. The main objectives, priorities, tasks and ways of privatising state property are defined by the State Privatisation Programme, which is adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of the privatization programme is monitored by the Supreme Council of Ukraine through hearing reports from the funds, the Cabinet of Ministers through periodic hearings by fund managers. The law enforcement authorities are also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the program. In order to verify the activities of the regional offices, the fund involves law enforcement officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u35	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I have two questions for you. The first question in the course of which was already asked here by the national MPs. Whether it's a fund or a government program for the conservation and functioning of socio-cultural objects in the countryside. What is happening in this regard? And the second question is no less important: What is being done, and how is it to preserve the objects of culture, education, housing in the military towns that are now being transferred? Do you know what's going on there?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u37	Thank you. As far as the rural area is concerned, 70 percent were transferred to municipal property. 70 percent. What touches the final number of objects, which is somewhere, I called six and a half thousand others, is the subject of these objects. What concerns the privatization programs that are currently in operation is that even the benefits of such a, the benefits of 102 articles are written here. I'm going to read that in rural areas, education, culture, art, health, physical culture, which have not been transferred to the property of the territorial communities, maybe the territorial community has refused, no funding, no further funding, and they're being held at the expense of enterprises if there's no privatisation applications, when no one wants to privatize this social sphere, they can be transferred, this social sphere can be transferred free of charge to this enterprise. That is, a very well - paying article is written directly in this 102 - page article of an active privatization program. The best option was for a fully social sphere in rural areas to be passed on to local communities to municipal property and to be fully funded by sources of funding. That concerns the second question of military towns. And what we're going to do is we're going to have three choices: on the one hand, they can be transferred to utility property, that's the general line, the general line, the utility property transfer. The second option — objects can be transferred to the fund and can be privatized by the fund. And the third scheme, when these objects can be directly sold by the Ministry of Defense itself, will be an additional source of funding for the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u38	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u39	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian Communist Party MP. In Lugansk, Poltava, Reveny, Dnipropetrovsk, and other cities, there have been evidences of violations of existing legislation regarding the sale or privatization of bankrupt companies. Hundreds of thousands of people, including families with underage children, were left homeless. Why the government has strayed from solving the housing problem of Ukrainian citizens. When the government ceases to practice commercial transactions that illegally privatize or buy out hostels. The answer. An imperfect legislative base did not prohibit the inclusion of the cost of hostels in the statutory funds of farm societies in the process of privatization and corporateization. And there have even been cases where the labour force has approached the State Property Fund with proposals for the inclusion of these objects in the statutory fund, and they have understood that this will be better in terms of preserving these objects. But the legislative framework at the time allowed it to include and not include. In accordance with the Ukrainian Property Act, enterprises own, use and dispose of property for their own purposes. At times, housing rights of citizens are violated. In order to address the problems related to hostels, the Fund, together with the Ministry of Economics and the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, has prepared a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on housing rights for residents living in hostels. What affects direct bankruptcy is that when, or the liquidation of an enterprise, where housing or housing are located in statutory funds, the State Property Fund makes it clear in its recovery plans that it will be required to transfer the housing to the fund or hostels. Once again, however, there is such a contradiction in legislation when, on the one hand, objects are transferred to the statutory fund, which is already owned directly by the shareholders of the enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u40	Jaroslav Suhi. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u41	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, that the privatization of some industrial enterprises with the support of the Ukrainian State Property Fund with your personal support, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar was carried out in due course through the method of national privatization, allowed for the preservation of a number of socio-cultural objects today, including the Open Association of Motor Sic in Zaporozhye, to preserve the entire sports complex, where the masters and the Olympics are engaged, the house of culture, the children's health camps and so on. I have a question for you. Please tell me, is the State Property Fund planning to disseminate the experience of the people’s privatization method while privatizing other strategic objects? Because no mythical master would do what people who privatized their enterprise and the method of national privatization as a means of preserving socio-cultural objects?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u42	Thank you. That's a very interesting question. I want to say that your experience, it must have been used to some extent in privatizing the Illich factory in Mariupola, when also, you could say, the labor community was bought out by this large enterprise. And there is also a good solution, including social issues. But I think we need to take the experience, take the experience of these enterprises from your Motor Sicily, from the Ilicza plant in the main -- in a very professional enterprise management that has enabled these enterprises to move to a sufficient level and efficiency of work, competitiveness, which has enabled them to earn income, which is enough for investment and for the preservation and development of society. Thank you. This is a major gain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u43	To the letter, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u44	Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich, Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. "In the process of privatization, in most cases it is necessary to preserve the status of health facilities as a public or municipal institution by transferring them to municipal property and further using them at the expense of the relevant budget. Is it regulated by regulatory acts to transfer such objects to municipal or state property?" The mechanism for the transfer of health institutions from state to municipal property is regulated by the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights. The mechanism for the free transfer of state-owned health institutions from one central executive authority to other executive authorities is regulated by the provisions on the procedure for the transfer of property rights objects, approved by the Government Decree of September 21, 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u45	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u46	Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, in his own time in some businesses that were either bankrupt or already bankrupt, there was a practice of transferring the socio-cultural sphere to local self-government authorities. And for that reason, there were some compensatory costs. I can give examples: for example, about the transfer of utilities in Kaluchi. And the budget provided for compensation that had not been paid. This year, the budget created has not been able to form appropriate compensations, such as through the Valley City Council, which has taken over a particular housing sector, including dormitories. How does the State Property Fund provide for these issues to be resolved? Because budget formulas don't involve them in any way. And is there control over the preservation of local self-government funds that are very often reclassified by these institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u47	I'd like to go back to the speech at the beginning. And in order to save -- and once again emphasize -- in order to preserve the social sphere, it takes investment, it takes money. Either the funds will be local budgets, or the state budget, or private investments. And in each case, we have to push away from all three factors. I just want to point out that the State Property Fund does not aim to privatize the social sphere. The main goal is to preserve the social sphere. But if there's no funds in the State budget, at the local level, and the enterprise refuses to finance, then there's only one way out -- private investment. What affects the increase in revenue and at the local level of the budget, the increase in budgetary expenditure, and at the state level, is only possible because of the dynamic growth of the economy, due to an increase in the State budget of corresponding transfers, both in the government programme and in the outlook for 2005-2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u48	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u49	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Michael Vasilovich, you're convincing us here that we need the money we need. We know that. I'm going to ask you specifically. You said that in 2000, there was an order issued by the President of Ukraine, which seemed to be trying to put order in place with regard to socially privatized enterprises. But privatization, that is, the legal robbery of the people's good began in the early 1990s. First question. How many impeccable social sites were destroyed by the year 2000? [[And their thousands]] And the second. You said that about 6,000 social objects or 30 percent are on the balance of privatized enterprises with no maintenance costs. What role does the State Property Fund play with regard to these objects? What, are they also being destroyed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u50	And that touches the last question, and I really point out once again that the State Privatization Program contains such a lucrative 102nd article. I will read it again, which is located in rural areas of education, culture, and art, health, physical culture, which have not been transferred to the property of the territorial communities, and are held at the expense of the enterprises, if there are no applications for privatization, they may be transferred free of charge to the enterprise, provided that the functions of the listed objects are maintained. That is, a very large premium has been paid for the free transfer of these objects to the enterprises themselves. And as far as you're concerned, you're saying that I'm talking about the fact that there's no money, and the money just has to be made, that's what it is. And the state's making money. It earns money because of the businesses, because of the dynamic growth of the economy, the increase in the income part of the budget. There's no other way. And in the government programme, and in the decision that the projected macroeconomic indicators for the next three years were approved, such positive dynamics have been written down and confirmed. And last year, and this year, these indicators, these dynamics, they're going to last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u51	We're still on the subject. Vladimir Leschenko from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u52	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm calling your attention as chairman that the head of the fund does not specifically answer the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u53	I'm asking the head of the foundation to answer specific questions. Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u54	Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich, Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. After the privatization of the health care facility, including a sanitation facility that is part of the entire property complex of privatization facilities, it will be possible to change the profile of activities. To this day, however, they are serving a certain category of patients on a sectoral and territorial basis. Thus, privatization of socio-cultural objects can lead to a reduction in social infrastructure in regions and have a significant impact to reduce the provision of social services under State guarantees. Will health care facilities that form part of the entire property complex of privatization facilities be privatized? The answer. In the event of the refusal of labour groups of enterprises privatized from the privatization of social facilities, such facilities may be transferred to the communal property of the respective territorial communities. In the event that it is not possible to maintain a social object at the expense of the local budget, such objects may be transferred free of charge to the company if they are used and properly maintained without the right to sell. So the company can use it, but it doesn't have the right to sell it. Only the State Property Fund can make the sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u55	Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, Kozlowski, Agrarian faction. Santa Claus. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, we have the administration of the area under control in Mikolayevska, and Garkush himself is solving this issue. That's why I don't have any questions. I ask you to give Catherine Timothy Vaschuk a word. I'd like to give it to Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u57	Please turn on the microphone of Catherine Timothy Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u58	Dear reporter, you know that today, if there's a school in the countryside, there's a house of culture, a medical center, a library, a church, a village will live. In all other cases, no. But there is the same problem in the district centers. Today, more than 30 percent of the population is rural. 90, almost 90 percent, without three percent, 87 percent of executives were born and spent their childhood in the village. Tell me, how can each government, from government to government, withstand politics so that we don't abuse the social spheres of rural areas, the rural renegades? Many today see that there are theaters in the capital, the theaters. What about in the neighborhood? Maybe you shouldn't. In the area? Maybe you shouldn't. Hospitals are central, institutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u60	What is the foundation supposed to do here?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u61	Thank you so much for asking. That's a really painful question. I reiterate that there is now a process in the government to develop scientifically-based standards for the provision of social and cultural facilities, including in rural areas, but from the development of standards to funding, this must be done in a separate way. I fully agree with what you said, but the government itself is unable to solve this painful problem. It is only the most consolidated work of the government and the Supreme Council that can ensure that the time when these issues will be fully resolved is near. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u62	Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u63	Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich, Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. "In the process of privatizing the whole-major complex, there may be privatised socio-cultural objects not used to provide social services and are not entirely or partly financed by the State or local budgets. Local authorities should grant the right to privatize such facilities in accordance with the relevant ministries. Whether it's settled evaluation issues, whether it's appropriate to use these socio-cultural objects by profile. Have the mechanisms in place allowed them to privatize and change their profile? The answer. Ukraine's Law on Privatisation of State Property provides for the establishment of a privatization commission consisting of representatives of a company, a trade union organization, local councils, a territorial department of the Antimonopoly Committee, financial bodies, a State Privatisation Authority and an authority authorized to decide on privatization to manage the relevant state property. The Privatization Commission consists of a project for privatization of an object that foresees the failure to destroy whole assets, a procedure for the use of property that is not subject to privatization. In addition, authorities authorized to manage state property prior to the decision to privatize, reprivatization of state-owned enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the State, the reprivatization of which independent consultants and experts may be involved, the socio-cultural facilities and the conditions for their further operation are identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u65	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! Please tell me what prevents the inventory of all socio-cultural objects that have been on the balance sheet of enterprises that have been subject to Union legislation before and now Ukraine? And what prevents control over the purposeful use of these objects? Why is it difficult to do so in a few days and to distribute a list of all these objects today? What prevents this from happening? So I can't just understand that the report is good, it's like the answers are right, and yet you're not doing the right thing for the state, for the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u66	Thank you. What concerns enterprises that have been privatized, social facilities, I have already reported, and I reiterate that we have 600 contracts under our control. We are investigating both the State Property Fund and the regional offices as investors. And if we don't do it through the courts, we break up. Six contracts have been broken, 20 are now contracts that are being dealt with directly in the courts. But there are objects on the business balance sheet that are social objects that are subordinated to the relevant authorities, ministries. And there are objects that are located directly in rural areas that may not be used today because of the demographic situation. This is a very big problem. And so I've already said that the main goal is to save the profile, so there are appropriate norms and standards that the state of the population should provide for the needs of the social sphere. But there are places where objects have not been used for several years. For three years no longer is used, where objects are already in a state of emergency, decisions can also be made regarding the retraining of these objects. This standard is approved directly in the privatization programme. What's touching all of the objects that are on the business balance sheet, I repeat, this base in the State Property Fund is, but it's a very large number of enterprises, they are, the base is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u67	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u68	Hara Vasil Grigorovich, Social Policy Committee. "Is paragraph 4.11 of the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Confederation of Employers and the All-Ukrainian Trades and Trade Unions for 2002-2003 on the introduction of standards regarding the non-reduction of the network of establishments that provide for the needs and funding of the population in socio-cultural services." The Ministry of Labour Order, the response, and social policy approved the State Classification of Social Standards and Norms, which contained a section of State, Social Standards in the area of physical culture and sports facilities. The Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees, social standards in the field of health care, sets out the quality of health care indicators and completes the development of draft standards for the provision of a certain area, the health care network, the hospital, the medical care of adults and the child population. This question, it repeats in many, this thesis repeats itself on many issues. But once again, I want to emphasize that new standards are being developed, new scientifically based standards of social security, but the main goal is to fill these standards with life, I repeat, with financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u69	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u70	Mikhailo Alexiyovich, you spoke for the legislative base. How do you see that in his time, the President made a commitment to the law on government ownership? Last week, the presidential majority blocked the adoption of the law on municipal property rights. I was a witness when seven hostels with residents were privatized in Chernobyl during the privatisation of the construction organization? I went to the D.A., I went to you. They're all hand-breathing. But it doesn't make it any easier. And I wanted your answer frankly to the general. We've already reached such a level of culture that we don't need clubs, we don't need cultures, we turn them into casinos, we turn them into bars? Why are they neglected? Who is to blame?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u71	What concerns the first question is the promise of the law on governance and the second law that you call it, I think that when the subject is being considered, the law is being considered on the subject of the veto, it is being considered solely from the existing legislative basis of the Constitution of Ukraine. In my opinion, we need to work on these laws and adopt them. They're really needed. What concerns another question is that some clubs have been re-profiled. Indeed, and I set an example in the Luhansk region, where of the nine clubs that were privatized, when privatizing the State Property Fund does, I repeat, once again, I want to stress the procedure: it initiates the appropriate authority that it manages. Next. This privatisation initiative is fully in line with local authorities who really know better on the ground. An enterprise is, should it save the profile of this enterprise or in view of the demographic situation, might it be more appropriate to re-profile it? Because otherwise, it could just die. But even in this case, of the nine six clubs were preserved, two were reclassified into suitable buildings. In general, the objects were preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u72	Valery Assadchev, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u73	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich, well, I want to tell you that the question that is being considered today has no strategic solution at the beginning of the statehood, nor has it today. And what was privatized by kindergartens, cultural buildings, the library, it's already acquired a mass character. I can give you, really, an example that my colleague Ponomarenko said today, it's also very common today: when companies were involved with dormitories, the hostels were sold with people, and the new owner is driving people out of the street, as if we don't have a Constitution, citizens' rights and so on. I can give you a unique example with a microprocessor company that you privatized without even having any inventory. You didn't even realize you were privatizing. So, in this regard, I know that - I don't know how effective our consideration will be - please tell us from this rostrum: Who in the state manages state property? Because I thought this fund was in charge, it's called: State Property Fund. So everything there is is assembled. Who in the State Controls State Property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u74	State property is administered by the government, but the government manages through both appropriate ministries and through the State Property Fund. To the State Property Fund, objects are transferred when they are already on their way to privatization. Then the State Property Fund will receive these objects, ready for privatization, and privatize after the act of transfer. They are located directly in the administration of the respective ministries and departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u75	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u76	"Hara Vasil Georgievich, Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Is it considered appropriate to develop a mechanism for the free transfer of socio-cultural objects to trade unions, their integration by their consent, and the enterprises that have kept them at their own expense for five years?" The answer. The development of a mechanism for free transfer of socio-cultural objects to trade unions is not considered appropriate, as the status of the trade union property in their knowledge is not currently defined. In this regard, the law on the identification of property rights in Ukraine’s territory has not yet been passed. It is also considered to be useless to develop a mechanism for the free transfer of socio-cultural objects to enterprises that have been holding them for five years at the expense of their own resources. Such benefits are only in rural areas, since the priority of privatization is to ensure the availability of funds to Ukraine’s State Budget. In addition, the social aspects are regulated by article 24 of the Law on Privatization of State Property, which provides for the transfer of social goods to an uninterrupted, free use of the household on purpose but without the right to sell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u77	Valentin Josephovich Matthew, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u78	You don't? George Manchulenko, please. The faction of Victor Yushchenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u79	Grigory Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewecka District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yuschenka faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Michael Vasilovich! I have two questions for you. First. It was recently rescinded by an order from the President of the Cabinet of Ministers for an organization in the town of the Watchtower region based on a decommissioned tank regiment for illegal migrants. Regrettably, the government did not count on the position of the territorial community, the district and district authorities. It is good that the President listened to their position and canceled that order. Did the government call for a draft order for the transfer of a military town, including the socio-cultural assignment of the objects of this military town to Derkomnac? The other one. As far as the country clubs are concerned. Today, this is a disgraceful situation. Libraries, as well as other things that the villagers of rural areas need, including reicenters, can be located there. All of this is now in neglected condition. Your position as head of the foundation on these two issues and as representative of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u80	As for the question of club use, I've already answered, I don't want to repeat myself. With regard to decisions regarding the transfer of military towns to municipal property or the transfer of property to the appropriate ministries or offices, these matters are necessarily dealt with by the government, and the government makes the appropriate decision for each particular enterprise. I can't say in detail right now, I wasn't preparing. But the algorithm or formula one, when it comes to the transfer of items of the Ministry of Defence or military towns to municipal property or parts are passed on accordingly, some individual buildings may be transferred to some central authority, and this must be the decision of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u81	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u82	It's a written question. Hara Vasil Grigorovich, Social Policy Committee. Is it envisaged to introduce a mechanism for exempting income from the economic activity of cultural education and sports institutions in a part that aims at strengthening the material and technical base and paying the salaries of employees of these establishments? The answer. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income, public organizations designed to introduce environmental, health, amateur, sports, cultural, educational and scientific activities have a special order of taxation. In addition, Ukraine's Land Pay Act stipulates that domestic institutions of culture, science, education, health care, social security, physical culture and sport, sports facilities used for purpose, are exempt from land taxes. And the State Budget 2004 Act establishes that land tax benefits are applied to domestic institutions of culture, science, education, health care, social security, physical culture and sports, which are maintained at the expense of public or local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u83	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u84	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please tell me I'm right here in front of you. Please tell me you have some perspective that the State Property Fund wants to achieve this year in the next relative question. Or this is the next piece we've set up. The point is that in the countryside and not only in the countryside, and in the city, practically these organizations, which were designed to enable a person to rest culturally, to come and do some activities. It's not like that right now. They just make people crazy, yeah! Here's some perspective for a year, for two, for three, if you don't go back to Soviet times when it was guaranteed, but at least what are we planning to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u85	The fund, together with the Supreme Council, with the government, aims to preserve the social sphere, the maximum conservation of the social sphere. But in order to move from these words to action, it is possible only through increased funding, through increased funding, especially through the State Budget and local budgets. And this is only possible because of the strengthening of the economy of the state, its dynamic development. I stress once again that both in the government programme and in the government's approval decision. macro-indicators for the next three years, this positive dynamic, with the gradual growth and economic strength of the state, and the increase in revenue to the State budget, and this increase in funding for the social sphere is hard to withstand and will endure. That's the main thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u86	Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u87	Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. "Are the recommendations approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of the laws of Ukraine on the natural and cultural heritage and on the protection of the cultural heritage" and on the compliance of officials with the requirements of the current legislation regarding the National Hortician Reserve and other historical and cultural preserves and natural-intelligence funds as of 12 September 2002 in part of obtaining national historical and cultural heritage of State acts on the right to permanent use of land?" Answer: The Land Authority of the Republic of Ukraine has completed the project work on establishing the outer boundaries of the Hortica Reserve. Other land users on the island are included as foreign land users, in accordance with the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, the establishment of sites for the protection of monuments and the approval of the boundaries of the historical habitats of inhabited cities cannot be the basis for forced removal from tenure, the use of land in legal and natural persons, provided landowners comply with the rules for the use of historical and cultural land. In January 2003, the Land Authority received from the Reserve the output of the General Development Plan of the Reserve for further work on the construction of a project for the permanent use of the land area of Horticia and the adjacent islands, in accordance with their agreement on the execution of the work. The Hortica National Reserve Directorate has been issued by the city's restricted land administration to make a project for the permanent use of the land of the Hortica National Reserve and to prepare a State Act for the right to use land on a permanent basis. The Government of the Capital Building of Zaporozkom Mesquikom is tasked with the construction of materials for the reconciliation of the location of the highways across the Dnipro River and the preparation of materials for land reserves. The decision of the session of the Zaporozhye Region confirmed the materials of the location approval. Highways and permitted project-excellent work after receiving the land user's consent to remove land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u88	National MP, Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u89	Fucking Communist faction. Mikhail Vasilovich, I have a question. At the beginning of this year, the Church celebrates the fifties of its creation. Thirty - eight years our area was built and twelve years of destruction. In time, a program was developed in the area to provide for each child with a children’s home. The city. This is a program developed by the first secretary of the Cherkaski Communion Company of Ukraine, Luzak Ivan Kondratiyovich. Today, these children’s gardens, which our children were fully equipped with, are now being sold to utilities and privatized. Instead of having children there, there are offices, various entertainment facilities, cafes, and so forth. Why can’t there be shelters for children or institutions, children’s institutions for children in Ukraine today, and more than 300,000 in Ukraine, so that they can both learn and live?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. You made one point as to the fact that these kindergartens were transferred to utility property. The decision at the local level was then taken by the appropriate community. So first, I reiterate that the main goal is not privatization, but conservation. And the main course, the best thing to do is to transfer everything to community property to local communities, and there, at the level of places, is to look at the perspective and fate of each institution. If there are such specific violations at the local level, the law enforcement authorities should intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u91	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u92	Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, Committee on Environmental Policy Whether measures have been taken to transfer the land of the natural reserve fund to a conservation category that presupposes the conservation of natural resources in the privatization process. The answer. In accordance with article 19 of the Land Code, Ukraine refers to the category “Earth of Nature, Conservation and Other Conservational Purposes”. So they don't have to be transferred because they're the natural-intelligence fund of Ukraine. The order of use of the natural-invention fund is defined by the Ukrainian Earth Code. Thank you. And the question was that of such a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u93	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Communist faction, Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich! So, for example, a person who's so structured, when, for example, they call it his name or his name and they're criticizing it, it's very painful to react to it, and he's going to protect himself, and he says, "Why did you say that to me because I didn't do that?" For example, in this privatization of municipal property, the state suffers a great deal of moral damage. For example, the main thing is that trust in authority has been undermined. Nobody, for example, in the village, would you say that you trust the government today, or the President, or you trust the government today. Ten out of a thousand might say so. Ask them why. For example, take an example of why he does not trust. I have a question for you. Please tell me, who is allowed to undermine authority today? And why does the authorities fail to respond to violations that take place? What's the matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u95	The authority is not allowed to be undermined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u96	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u97	Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich, National Security and Defence Committee. "What measures does the government take to preserve the military military military museums that will be disbanded in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces?" The answer. In the Armed Forces of Ukraine, there is a military-museum network consisting of a group of military museums, military and labour museums, military forces, operational commands, mergers, military units, educational institutions, institutions of the Central Museum of the Armed Forces and its branches. In the event of the dissolution of the museum, its funds are transferred to the relevant main museum on the basis of the decision of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence’s Directorate of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u98	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u99	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Michael Vasilovich, I read your information carefully. To be honest, I was preparing for this conversation. And that's what surprises me. Why does the government not make an objective analysis of the state of affairs? And the main thing is, in my opinion, if there's some kind of analysis going on, let's say, compared to last year. Why not examine the real state of affairs in comparison with the ninetieth year, the ninety - first year? And today we're only talking about 2002, in 2003 it was a little bit better than in 2002. This, I think, is not objective. I think that, Mikhail Vasilovich, our government needs to learn to some extent to do an objective analysis, as was done by Volodymyr Mikhailovich at a meeting with a party of agrarians, where the state of affairs and social affairs in the countryside is really explained. Then we can have a specific conversation. Why isn't that done, please give me an answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u100	Thank you. It could be taken as a base and a ninetieth year, and it could be compared to 1990. But why are you taking the last 3 to 4 years? The last 3 to 4 years are the years when the economy of Ukraine started to rise and when there's a positive dynamic of macro indicators, and it's growing. And the best year was last year, both economically and financially. And this year is foreseen according to government plans and approved budget, this year will be even better in both financial and economic terms. So we would have taken as a frame of reference that year when economic growth started. But if you do this, a very thorough and detailed analysis, you can take the year 1990 as a basis, and you can take the years of the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u101	Time's up. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization of Valentina Petrovna Seminouk has the floor for the report. Please, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u102	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. The social and cultural level of every society is no less important than the economic or technical development of the country. And culturally and socially underdeveloped society will always generate corruption, crime, drug abuse and poverty, which unfortunately has been happening in Ukraine in recent years. Since the beginning of privatization, legislation has contained restrictions on the inclusion of socio-cultural and household objects in statutory funds. Although no legal instrument provided for the conditions under which these objects were transferred: ownership, administration, or use. Today, this is the very main reason that is not settled, and more so than a bill on the administration of public property, the right to manage, the right of municipal property is not acceptable to us. And these are the main gaps in our legislation. As part of its consideration of this issue on the Government Day, the Commission proposes that the conservation and use of socio-cultural objects be considered in a broader perspective, since the State Property Fund of Ukraine is now practically reporting on this issue not even for the entire period of its activity A only since 1998. As far as I'm The creation of a State Property Fund for Ukraine's former Union of Soviet Unions was privatized in the 1990s, in the 91st with only the main production funds. These were dozens of allied enterprises and subordinated to the government authorities of the Ukrainian RSR. I'm not going to call this large number of businesses, they're on our board today. For example, at the base of the former Red Excavator plant, which was subordinated to the Ministry of Heavy Machine Construction of the Soviet Union in April 1991, ZAT ATET functions. Because of the conflict that has arisen in the area of dispossession by individual subjects in the social sphere of the former Red Excavator plant, which has not been redeemed by new owners, our commission has had to intervene in this matter and make the right decision. To carry out the commission’s decision, the Attorney General’s Office and the State Property Fund honored them by bringing them before the courts. And the court in December 2003 confirmed the Commission's conclusion that all the unpurchased objects of the socio-cultural purpose of the former Red Excavator plant, which is not just a sports complex, but three shelters of the factory, four residential buildings, a youth's Miria children's club, a holiday base, the Hoolitica children's health camp, as they were, remained in the state form of property. What is characteristic? That the term of the court's summons for this case was renewed, taking into account that the Fund of State Property and the Prosecutor's Office had been informed of the fact that the State's property rights had been violated when the acts of the former Red Excavator factory were dismantled only after they had received the decision of the Special Supervisory Commission. I want to draw your attention to the social situation that has remained on the balance of the commercial structures created on the basis of the purchased core funds of former allied enterprises. So far, the State Property Fund has ignored the legislative requirements for carrying out an index of the value of objects that have not entered the statutory funds. For 12 years, the Open Shareholder Society "PAN", established under the federal legislation of the NovoMoscow sewing factory in the Dnipropetrov region, uses 20 public property objects free of charge for its statutory activity. It's worth over a million dollars. And these are objects that did not join the statutory fund during privatization. In the Dnipropetrovsk region, the result of privatization was no more than 50 objects under the Ukrainian legislation of the Hubinen sugar plant. So far, there has not been an indexation and a large sum of the state's stated losses. And this is when paragraph 149 of the State Privatisation Programme, approved by the Ukrainian Act on 20 May 2000, is literally quoted as saying: "The State Property Fund, after the acquisition of the programme, conducts an inventory and indexation of state property that is not included in the statutory VAT funds and decides to continue its use or privatization in accordance with legislation." In violation of this standard, the State Property Fund of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea did not carry out an index of state property that did not form part of the statutory funds of open shareholders. In an open stock company. created in the village of Precinct, Zacarpathian district, the last index was carried out on April 1, 1992. As a result, on April 1, 2003, the balance sheet does not include four non-constructions in the statutory state property fund, in other words, inequitablely a 25-bedroom housing house with a balance value of 40 rubies, a 20-bedroom house with a value of 10 bracelets and a 4-bedroom house with a total cost of 80 copies. I am no longer talking about other suitable objects. Most of these objects are leased by bookkeepers without the knowledge of the State Property Fund. All these years, the government budget does not have a large amount of rent money for these objects — a corresponding set of problems of a social nature and their use. The Ukrainian Law on the Law of Communal Property, as I said before, is not accepted. This gives local councils the opportunity to sell them their belongings. So everything that can be sold is sold, and sales are done at low prices, which are often undersold several times. The main reasons for this situation are the imperfections and underexpenditures in local budgets to maintain these facilities, the lack of sufficient financial transfers from the state budget to offset costs associated with the maintenance and capital repair of social infrastructure objects. And the imperfect legislative framework that I've already talked about. Some objects are alienated from privatization legislation. Children’s kindergartens, dormitories are accounted for in debt repayments, and are mortgaged, and so forth. There are numerous cases of lack of necessary technical documentation. It's the right to land, the right to state property. Thus, in a letter dated July 1, 2003, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration Prin reported to the Commission that the plan for the resolution of the VAT "Lonotext" city of Žitomir provided for such measures. [[By the way, this is an official letter from the Cabinet of Ministers.]] I quote from the text. "Sales of property that has not entered the statutory fund or the obligation of the investor to allocate funds for the proper maintenance of this property which did not enter the statutory fund of the ZAT until its transfer or corresponding sale." So the state is accounted for by state property. So this is what the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics writes, which is what we're talking about today's shulers who want to do what they want to do. I want to pay particular attention to the problems that are coming today and the issues that are coming to the Special Control Board on the alienation of property, especially sanatorium and resorts. Thus, a number of pioneer camps, dwellings that are sold at no cost, have been handed over to commercial structures. Thus, for several years, the health sanatorium, the Red Stars, the Peaceable, the Maya, all of these objects were sold directly by the Ukrprofessor. In this session room, you and I have repeatedly raised questions about the disease and the severe disease in Ukraine for tuberculosis. And what's going on here. So, for example, the White Flower sanatorium in Odessa was taken abroad, provided it was taken outside the city of Odessa. In fact, he disappeared from such work as TB treatment. In December 2001, several Odessa hospitals were sold at an auction in agreement with the Ministry of Health without agreement with local authorities. I won't call anymore because there's not much time. There are cases of sales of objects in a so - called schedule. Yes, in 1999 870,000 coins were sold to the Ministry of Transport’s sports complex. So it took three million dollars to build this complex, and it was already 40 percent ready. And they sold it under credit by May 2007. Today, there are 21,000 dollars a month in the budget for the project. Another example of the collapse of public health as a result of privatization is a hospital with a hospital in the city of Borislav of Lviv. The complex consisted of an unstructured laundry and disinfection compartment, which, artificially, I repeat, were isolated and privatized. Without these facilities, the hospital and the clinic are virtually unable to function. I think in the next session we're going to consider this. And together with the Cabinet of Ministers, we will resolve these issues. I think that we can't allow any deterioration in the level and extent of social and cultural services to be destroyed. There is a need to preserve from the final destruction the material base of education, information, sports, and cultural spheres, for their policies of destruction run counter to the national interests of Ukraine. To reproduce what was created, not us, but destroyed behind us, either by our ignorance or by our guilt, we are obliged to do so with you. And that's why I'm counting on understanding this issue of the Cabinet of Ministers. Our proposals are set out in the Supreme Council's draft decree. I hope you will support it, because in this matter you should be interested in both the government and the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u103	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna, for you. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the discussion of information and the report made by Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. On the board, please explain the names of the national MPs who signed up for 20 minutes for discussion as agreed. Alexander Masenko, a faction of Communists, prepare Yuri Carmazin. Please, Your Honor, follow the Rules. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government! I'd like to point out that this is the issue that we're discussing today, and it's probably not something that anyone in the government needs. He sat down a little bit and didn't listen completely because he was approached and he was talking all the time, and he went somewhere and he wasn't there. Speak not, speak not, but as for the wall of peas, there is such a saying, and none of it will work out. I was interested that Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov stated on this rostrum, so that we are seeing economic growth and only with the solution of this issue will the problems of preserving socio-cultural objects be solved. Yes, it's true, but it's probably not Mikhail Vasilovich who should have talked about it, let alone the President, and if it wasn't for the President, that's how the Prime Minister or one of the vice-premiers spoke here. Why is our economy not developing enough so that we can preserve socio-cultural objects? It's funny that Mikhail Vasilovich claims that he was such a success last year. I know where he was successful, maybe on paper that was successful, but none of Ukraine's citizens saw this rise economically, and so did I. And where you see him, let's meet. The phrase is, privatization is a precaution against the collapse of the sociocultural sphere. It's funny enough and you can't think of it, believe me, but it's privatization and it's caused the social and cultural sphere to die virtually, already destroyed. And most of all, this privatization hit the village. I have recently practically traveled around many inhabited areas of the Poltava region, and here is the historic village of the Great Soročinci of the Mirgorod region, described in its time by Govíl at the fair all of you are going to visit the house of culture of this village, a beautiful house of culture built during the years of Soviet power, and what is now there. You, the government, if we closed it down for two or three hours, we wouldn't have a government long ago, and people are still going there, and they're still enduring the cold and the conditions they have to be in. And there's more. This is in your help, Mikhailo Vasilovich, about five percent of these objects have been reclassified and staffed. It is your opinion that five percent. And it's practically all been re-profiled, it's all part of it, and it's all gone! And it's strange that this decision you've been talking about for the years 2003-2005 has been calculated, so 2003 has already passed. What has been done?Oh, my God! Can you show me anything that's done? What hope is there that something will be done in 2004 and 2005? I don't think anything will be done. Now, you write as a positive moment in privatizing sociocultural objects is that new owners of objects provide modernization and reconstruction of objects, forming infrastructure in the tourism sector. [[I'm done.]] It's the funniest thing you can come up with. How are we going to develop the tourist industry so that tourists can come here and watch how we couldn't save what we've built, on these ruins, on these ruins, on what happens after the war? Less then, the ruins were what we now allowed. And we're going to be developing the tourism sector on this basis as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u106	Now. I'm still making an offer because there's not enough time to recognize the government's activity in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u107	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u108	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! We have dealt with the issues of socio-cultural objects on a number of occasions. I am sure that when a conscious, national-responsible authority emerges in Ukraine, much will change, and, above all, it must be the faith of the Ukrainian people in the future of their country - Ukraine. And then the problem, such as the demographic, sharp reduction in birth rates, will disappear. And then the question will be, where do all the gardens go? Wasn't that all necessary? Would it be possible to reclassify clinics, hospitals, and schools? The government has not resolved these issues, and so today it is in such a number of warehouses, because the question is not promising to it. What to do. First of all, it should be prohibited to re-profile objects by requiring the free removal of privatised socio-cultural objects to be re-profiled, returning property to state property that is illegally re-profiled. What can we do? Just to get to the knowledge of Kabmin, and I agree here, I don't often agree with Communist deputies, especially after their vote, that the actions of the executive power should be considered unsatisfactory. But we also need to acknowledge that our actions are unsatisfactory. Why? What prevented us from taking legislative initiatives to ban the destruction of the country's socio-cultural infrastructure? I cannot agree with the suggestions that have been printed about holding parliamentary hearings on the same subject. Why? What prevents us, the committees and the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization, from holding such hearings with the participation of representatives of central and local executive authorities? What prevented Ukraine’s Attorney General from speaking here today? I can't see what was in the way! This prevented the organizers from inviting today both the Attorney General and the Ministry of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Head of the Security Service. And let them look into their people's eyes when they say, or they're not ashamed to fill their funds with the support of law enforcement agencies, while other issues related to sociocultural objects are dying. At the last session of the Odessa City Council, there was a question about the transfer from municipal property to the district kindergarten, house 43 by street.Bazarni 35 for the charity Future, led by Boris Litwak, who had already healed 11,000 children in this fund -- patients with cerebral palsy. What do you think?Oh, my God! Bodelan and the Bodalonian gang refused to do so! Other personnel came to the conclusion that a lawsuit was being filed now and that they were evicted, and they made a decision to move out of the house occupied by the Odessa Institute of Enterprise and Law. Because, you see, we have both heads and institutes and kindergartens. I'm offering my hopes in writing additionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u109	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u110	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. It's sad and painful to admit, but it's become a habit for us: to observe indifferently the destruction of socio-cultural objects. First, these objects are inconvenient, and then those who want to clean up money with their hands with the efforts of others do not have to look for long. This was the case with socio-cultural sites in Kirovograd, where almost the entire cultural sphere is known to be destroyed. For example, in Dobrovlitzkowka, the most beautiful house of culture was handed over by a cult organization to establish a supposedly church-based school. But there's no school, there's no culture, it's all ruined. And in the village of Kirilovka, the same area was built by the Soviet authorities, a cultural complex from which, unfortunately, there was no trace left. And a huge district center like Malay Viska, Shulga, without a movie theater. Look at the state of the libraries in which nearly all the most valuable Soviet literature has been destroyed! And if in Soviet times libraries, theaters, museums were like a temple of knowledge, culture, they are now completely destroyed, while we need to promote a healthy lifestyle, humanism and culture of conduct. Do our children and grandchildren know Makarenko, Suhomlinsky? We, even adults today, would love to see the film "Pedagogical Poem," but unfortunately they won't show it. Recent artistic groups are falling apart. For example, the prominent outside of the former Soviet Union of Kirovograd, a well-deserved group of the popular dance of Ukraine, the Jatran, with its material base, can come out of the hammer if the head of the Micola Chigrin, with the members of the city council, does not take this issue seriously. There is also a theater called Krapivnicki, which I have repeatedly spoken of with this large rostrum. And that is only a fraction of the terrible tragedy in which the socio-cultural sites in Kirovograd are now located. These egregious facts speak of the full birth of a culture. So you, gentlemen of the governors, as the Prime Minister says, have something to think about. Do you not care what new generation the State will receive? Can't you see there's a planned youth breakdown? Does our State need a rotten generation that uses dopings to create an illusion of happiness and joy in the face of the utter void? That's why our State has such a high rate of child crime, and for some reason bourgeois power doesn't think that by taking all of this away from children, they take away their faith in the good and love of Ukrainian culture, leaving in their souls a vacuum that is easily and rapidly filled with evil and violence. It seems that no one needs the fate of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u111	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Yeah, there's no nigger, Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national MPs, members of the government! I believe that the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine are not paying enough attention to the implementation of legislation, especially in its aspects, which are named at the border of the legislative field of education, science, property. I'll give you concrete examples today. As for privatization in education, you know, it's forbidden by law, there are laws, there are presidential decrees, there are government decrees. But see, as of January 1, 2003, the number of subjects in education that changed the form of property was privatized. During the nine months that followed last year, 44 units had already been built. In preschool, we once had 24.5,000 kindergartens and we provided about 75 percent of our children’s preschools. Our young shift. Today, according to the State Department, there are 15.3,000 children’s preschools in Ukraine. Of course, that is what we are talking about. I'd like to say about vocational and technical education. We had 1,246 schools in 1990, now we have 960, lost 284 schools. Postgraduate education. I think this is the most difficult situation right here. We have a mass of facts today when extra - school subjects are privatized especially with factory complexes and so forth. We have these facts in the village of Stone of Cherkas, so far we have a lot of these moments. It's going around the Odessa Youth Guard Children's Center. I could also refer to today’s situation with the Herson Training School number one, which was included in the privatized facility, the Herson Combin factory. And today it's a dedicated factory, and it's being sold as decided today. We could add, let's say, and by the way, in high school, we have a lot of problems. So you could say here an example that's happened around the custom-made technology and the Sokoil factory, where there's also a technology for privatization. [[New Kahovka]] Or the Ternopil State Technical University part of the dormitory. Three floors, N.T.P.A. took a turn. We have a particularly critical situation with scientific and scientific enterprises. When factories are privatized, these institutions are automatically privatized. At the same time, objects of intellectual property are taken away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u113	Turn on the microphone to complete the thought, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u114	Our committee, together with the Supervisory Commission on Privatization in the near future, 18 numbers, will address all these problems. But I would ask the government to pay attention to all of these points that we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u115	Leonid Chernewicki, faction of our Ukraine. Hara's getting ready, she's gonna make a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear People's Deputies, those who listen to us today! Our Ukraine faction, Darnicke constituency of the city of Kiev, Czernovetski People's Deputy. I want to tell you that, in principle, I support the idea of the State Property Fund, which today offers very healthy things that the social and economic sphere must be privatized only in the interests of our individual voters, including the residents of the dormitories who are being thrown out and protected today, because, by moving into the property of an enterprise that has no name or dignity, there is nothing that people can do. And that's a big problem. I therefore believe that the result of today's hearings will be the specific mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the local authorities, to determine how many such accommodations in Ukraine remain the main problem. What condition they are in, what level of privatization we can do to ensure that these people are not expelled from their places. There is still a problem of all, not all, and a major problem is, of course, the use of this social sphere for the benefit of the disadvantaged part of the population. I also refer to kindergartens and pioneer camps where street children and other socially vulnerable people can well be found. But, above all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we could broaden the scope of our hearings and talk more about the departmental institutions that are being used for the benefit of the property. And it's as if they live today, not in Ukraine, but in some, well, prosperous state, more greedy than the United States of America. Hospitals and holiday homes, and tens of thousands of halloween. This is a problem that must be addressed to the State Property Fund and entrusted with the inventory of these sites. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u117	Hara Vasil Georgiyovich, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, there are issues in which we cannot fail to discuss, and you realize that participation is useless, that words will be raised in the air, and there will be no changes in any significant way. It's particularly painful for me because for many years I've worked in a so-called trade union culture, in the establishment of culture and sport, and it's just offensive, it's scary to see what we've done in 10 to 12 years with such a powerful social and cultural system that we've had in our past life. Hundreds of palaces of culture and clubs, libraries, clubs of young technicians, youth clubs, schoolrooms, we have even forgotten the names of cultural institutions that once existed, where hundreds, millions of adults and children were engaged. You will recall, at the Soviet time, when our people's groups of self-reliance were much higher than those professional groups that came to us from all over the world. And we're destroying it all with you, and more specifically, we almost destroyed it. We had hundreds of stadiums, palaces of culture, sports, gymnasiums, sports grounds at the place of residence, youth sports schools. And we were not the last in the sport of high achievement. And remember what happened at the last Olympics, the disgrace of Ukraine. We had hundreds of sanatoriums, rest centres, boarding houses, child health camps where our workers and our children were being rehabilitated. What do we have today? Over 80 per cent of the morbidity of all our children, the huge decline in the health of our population. What have we done with this beautiful system? Deliberate, heartless and heartless destruction. And who remembers, we started with the socio-cultural objects of the coal industry on a premeditated pretext: to lift the cost of coal. And the cost of coal, the content of the coal industry's social facilities, from 3 maximum housing to 13 per cent. Destroyed. And then two or three times when the coal rose in price, and no one remembered that we had destroyed and desecrated it. What we have so far, especially where mines are a villager, a town-forming desert run by street children. I'm not talking about the cultural situation that we're dealing with anymore. Despite public protests, trade unions, people's deputies, the process has gone forward, and we have destroyed and sought this system. What do we have today as a result? The lack of spirituality, the lack of patriotism among both adults and children, the loss of human values, including, above all, morals, the neglect that we have now begun to worry about, the breakdown of families, the decline in the health of our population, and so on. Who was responsible for what happened in our country? Nothing. No one, actually. What should we do? First, I do not believe in the desire and ability of the State to elude, understand and realize what has happened and to impose fundamental measures to change the situation in favour of the so-called people on behalf of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of this matter. I would just like to point out that the level, the depth of the discussion on my conviction, in my view, is not related to the state and importance of the subject, because, first of all, in the process of privatization, objects of sociocultural destination have been eliminated. I think you can look at the examples of cities, especially villages, and look at the norms that were in the libraries, the clubs, the playgrounds of other health establishments, they just don't exist today. And this can be combined with the state of health, I mean the physical, moral, spiritual, which is now in the Ukrainian society, especially among the growing generation. The result will be extremely disheartening, it can be demonstrated by the socio-cultural sphere of the village, where there is a complete decline, total looting. However, it should be stressed that this statistic, which is open, is real, and if you want to say it is a bit adorned, it is very painful. Because we live in such a society when lies, lies, are perceived as a common, everyday phenomenon. We have only the truth that stirs up disapproval, we have to learn to tell the truth, and this truth must be reflected, as I think in the Supreme Council's draft ruling on this issue. It needs to be, I think, not sharpened, but it needs to be complemented, and we need to define clearly what tasks we need to do. Because we have already learned to speak sharp words. Now we need to provide a concrete, real analysis, an objective picture, and control over the implementation of our regulations. First of all, it is about strengthening the control functions of the respective committees of the Supreme Council in general. So I'd like, my dear colleagues, to make my suggestions and remarks to Valentina Petrovni Semenyuk so that this document can be finalized and accepted. Not to please or displease the Cabinet of Ministers, in order to establish the truth and identify specific orientations, we do, in fact, we are obliged, simply destined to do one, common thing, and to do so we need to say real things and call them our names. I'd like to redraft the document just to take into account what's been going on with us. I mean discussion. Let's take a look at the next issue of Government Day -- the summation of the recovery of children in the summer of 2003 and the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2004. Reporter Valentina Ivanovna Long - distance minister in matters of family, children, and young people This time, we hope that this long - suffering ministry will be reenacted last time and for all time. Please, Valentino Ivanovna. As we agreed in time, dear colleagues. The proposal of the Samoylik Semenovna Semenovna Semenowina Proposition by the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Valentina Ivanovna Long - 10 minutes, the answers to the questions here are 35 minutes, so let's do a written and oral statement, an hour, then a speech from the committee, and then a discussion. We have exactly two hours to do this. Is there no objection? Please, Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The implementation of State policies in the field of child rest and recovery requires a set of measures, as defined by the State Programme for Rest and Recovery until 2008, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers last year. The issue of child health and rest was addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after which an appropriate decision was adopted, and it was reflected in the Government's Programme of Action, which provides for an increase in the number of healthy children through the preservation and development of a network of children's health facilities. The measures taken last year by central and local executives to provide health care have yielded positive results. I want to thank the people's deputies, the 266 people's deputies were not just making requests, they were actually influencing the implementation of the National Programme for Child Health. Organized forms of healing last year covered nearly two million and fifty thousand school - age children, representing 34.2 percent of the total number of children of that age. In 2002, it was one million seven hundred and ninety - six thousand, or 27 percent. By 24 percent, the number of children who were cured in children’s health facilities had increased by 1,534 000. It increased, compared to last year, by 53,000 children who were resting in sanatoriums. In all, 611.6 thousand have recovered during the summer in such facilities. Above the mid-Ukrainian healing rate in the Hmelnicki district, Kiev, Kharkiv, Cherkaske, Dnipropetrovski, Donetsk, Sumski, Kyivsky, Poltava and Mikolai. First, attention was paid to the recovery of children under difficult living conditions. 85,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care were cured, 246,000 children affected by an accident in CHAES, nearly 420,000 children from multi-child and low-income families, 17.8 thousand disabled children and 1.6 thousand children from military and internal affairs workers who died in service duties and lost miners. In all areas, children with divinative behavior, social protection, and the rehabilitation of minors were cured and rested. In all, about 30,000 of these children have been cured. Last summer, about 15,000 children’s health facilities functioned. This is more than in 2002. The increase in health facilities was not only due to the increase in day - to - day facilities but also to the restoration of those who did not work for a long time. A number of regions have already resolved the issue of recreation and child recovery throughout the year. There are 42 children’s health facilities that will function throughout the year, starting this year. Yet, of course, they are not enough to talk about the completion of the work. The State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth, together with local executive authorities and local self-government authorities, conducted an inventory last year of the country's child-health base, which resulted in the preparation of the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance on certain issues of child health facilities in Ukraine, which approves the list of children's health institutions in state and municipal property, which are prohibited from disposal and re-training. The Ministry of Education and Science, the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young People have released information and methodological collections of materials on the organization of children's health, approved the position on the review and competition of children's health institutions in Ukraine launched this year. There is now a state registration of a child health facility and legal expertise. [[A project by the Cabinet of Ministers on the creation of the All-U.S. Center for the Health and Rest of Children as a Accounting Structure]] Work has been started on the drafting of the bill on the recovery and rest of children, a draft concept of this law has been prepared. The legislative work plan, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, provides that in November of this year we should submit this bill to the Supreme Council. The central authorities of the executive branch are involved in the organization of child health care. Local authorities have made commitments to provide child rest and recovery last summer at the planned rates. A significant contribution to the organization of child health has been made by transporters who, during their summer vacations, have taken over half a million children to health for free. At the initiative of youth and children’s social organizations and foundations, 120 preventive health changes have been organized for creatively gifted and talented children in the first place. Last year, the State Administration and other central executive authorities, along with the unions, held the first All-U.S. Children's, Youth and Family Recreation Fair, which was attended by children's health institutions in most regions, where opportunities for children's health were presented in all areas. Children’s rest and recovery were carried out at the expense of the selection. State and local budgets, enterprises, institutions, organizations, professional associations, temporary disability social insurance funds, the All-U.S. Health Fund, children's and adolescents' rest, non-budgetary incomes, and voluntary contributions from legal, physical and parental persons. All we had to do was spend over 478 million dollars on last year's health campaign, and we planned to raise 425 million dollars. From the State Budget through the principals, 142 of the local budgets of 88 million were directed to the rehabilitation of children and about 156 million extra - budget dollars were involved. We are grateful to the Social Insurance Fund for its temporary loss of employment, which directed 92 million dollars to child health. Some 15 percent of the parental expenses last year were incurred in the total cost of recovery. It should be noted that last year’s health campaign was funded in a timely and comprehensive manner. In general, the child - care organization has identified potential opportunities that can be involved at all levels for greater and better organizational preparation and rehabilitation of children this year. To ensure full implementation of the tasks set before us by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The 2003 recovery season was reviewed last December at an all-U.S. meeting under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Vladimirovich Tobacco, with the participation of the leaders of the central executive authorities and the deputy heads of the district administrations. While noting the positive developments, the flaws and omissions, as well as their causes, were carefully analyzed. First of all, the need to ensure the safety of children in health facilities, their health, and their lives is stressed. Regrettably, last year there have been accidents, among them the irresponsible attitude of management and staff toward these institutions toward their responsibilities, neglect of safety regulations, inadequate preparation of bathing places, and recreation of children. There were nine of these cases. Some health institutions have identified serious deficiencies in the dieting of children. For violations, more than 2,000 fines were imposed on the culprits, nearly 400 were taken to stop the operation of health facilities, and more than a thousand people were removed from work. Local executive authorities have been asked about the personal responsibility of officials for the quality and timely preparation of health facilities and their staffing. Special attention has been paid to the timely preparation of health facilities and to the work of practically all health facilities on June 1 this year. We plan to resuscitate 15 stationary facilities this year out of 126 that didn't work last year. For the first time in recent years, local budgets have provided more than 8 million dollars for preparation and repair work. Among the shortcomings of last year’s health campaign is the abuse of tender purchases of child - care travel. In accordance with the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to implement a tendering mechanism for child-recovery travel at the expense of the state budget. In order to establish a government order for the recovery of children last year, a work was carried out with the State to improve the treatment of children in the categories. During the first half of Mineconomy, Minfin, Dergymiamyoung will be reviewed and presented in an orderly manner a draft decree by the Cabinet of Ministers to establish a government order for the recovery of children. We have generalized information from regions about the number of children in the pension categories and forecasting indicators for their recovery in the network of establishments that will be in operation in the current year, the extent to which funding is provided for these goals in the state and local budgets. In order to complete the tasks of the number of healthy children defined by the National Programme and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to heal at least 2 million 350,000 children this year. This, of course, needs to be increased. However, the projected expenditure on the budget is lower compared to 2003 only for the recovery of children affected by the accident at CHEUS, 45 million less. At the very least, the unallocated funds for these purposes are 116 units in the budget of the Minagropolitics. At the same time, it should be noted that in the local budgets, funding for the rehabilitation of children increased by almost 30 million. At the request of the government, the State Insurance Fund, with temporary loss of employment, will save in 2004 funding for the rehabilitation of children at the level of 2003. According to estimates, some 170 million dollars will be added to the child’s health. Nevertheless, the deficit for the tasks will amount to about 40 million. At the direction of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Ministry of Finance are preparing a proposal to address this problem. We will also ask for your support. Further improvement of the work on child health and rest is certainly in the design and adoption of the Ukrainian Health and Recreation Act, which regulates health relations, determines the status of health facilities, the mechanisms for State incentives for owners, provides social standards for the provision of health services and facilitates the development of a modern health care market. At the time of solving the problem of the prevention of health care institutions, increasing the content of their educational work, such as modern methods. It requires national intervention in the management of pedagogical personnel in this area, improved regulation mechanisms, and paid for their work, and social protection. The solution to these and many other problems is being addressed today by the government, local executive authorities, trade unions, and public organizations with the support of the relevant committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u121	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. For the time being, answer the note while the recording is coming. One hour to ask. Please show me the recording on the monitor. Yes, please, Valentina Ivanovna, in writing, and then Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u122	The deputy faction "Our Ukraine" asks: for what reasons does the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ignore the proposals of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance for the renewal of funding from the State Budget of the Youth Guard Children's Centre and the introduction of this centre into the list of non-school education institutions that can be financed from the State Budget? Indeed, last year the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree that approved out - of - school institutions that work with children are funded by the State Budget. The Youth Guard is owned by the National Council of Children's Organizations, and was therefore invited to submit funding programmes pursuant to a 25th Cabinet of Ministers decree. 07, 2002 on a competitive basis By the way, the National Council of Children's Organizations received funding for the projects it submitted last year. Yet, for two of our letters to consent to participate in the tender and to receive state funds for the recovery of children of socially vulnerable categories in the Youth Guard last year, the management of the organization responded by refusing. This year, the Young Guard's management sent a letter to us saying that they agree on tender terms to win a tender and to ensure that children are cured of socially vulnerable categories. And we consider their appeal, and we will definitely support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u123	Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u125	Dryphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u126	Thank you. Valentina Ivanovna, Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Again, what I asked last year about the healing of the children of prominent institutions. The State Budget Act 2004 on the income tax of natural persons makes it not only problematic but impossible for large industrial enterprises, such as the city of Zaporozhye, to participate in the recovery of children for 2004. Last summer, more than half of the healthy children were resting on the bases of the benefits travel, you know, on the basis of famous institutions. First question: Should children’s health caregivers pay a tax on land? That's the price of travel. The other one. Should such tax policies be subject to VAT? That's 20 percent of the price per trip. And the third. Whether your ministry agrees, give you God's health in this office, and with article 96 of the Budget Act, which does not allow 50 percent of the cost of maintenance of children's sanatoriums, children's health camps. Please, what is the position of your ministry on these three extremely important aspects that make it impossible to heal children in 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u127	First of all, I want to say what I'm asked to represent the position of the government. And once again, I want to make sure that, despite the fact that the budget adopted by the Supreme Council is some part of the articles that make it more difficult for the children to be healed this year and to achieve the results of the decision and the state programme, namely, an increase of at least 10 percent of the children who are cured. Our position is next. As far as the law is concerned, the tax on land is concerned. You know, in the End of the 2004 Budget, it's supposed that those institutions, namely cultural institutions, educational institutions, which correspond to articles 12 and 3 of the Land Tax Act, are exempt from the land tax. And children's health facilities, in accordance with the Law on Extraschool Education, refer to educational institutions. So we think that they shouldn't pay taxes on land, that's how lawyers treat them. We've sent a letter of clarification to the State Tax Administration and I think we're going to solve this with a tax on the ground, that's a positive question for children's health institutions. In addition, the State Commission prepared proposals, amendments and additions to the Land Tax Act. He took a look at our government's social and humanitarian development committee, where it is envisaged that every year the Cabinet of Ministers will approve a list of children's health establishments that start on January 1, 2005, which will not be taxed on land. First question. Next. In line with the current and current order, the Cabinet of Ministers approves a list of children’s health facilities that provide health services to children who are exempt from VAT.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u128	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u129	Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. Decision No. 642 of the Supreme Council of Ministers proposes the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children in Ukraine. When will this bill be drafted? The concept of the law is developed, a working group of professionals and representatives of trade unions, representatives of children's health institutions and central executives is working on the law in line with the task we got from the government. In November, we have to hand over the draft law to you for consideration. What measures are being taken to resolve the problems of rest and health? Last year, in line with the Supreme Council's ruling, we developed positions, the types of position on a child's health facility, we approved it by joint command with the Ministry of Education and Science, and now this position is registered with the Ministry of Justice. Then, according to this situation, we will update the entire normative basis for the activities of children’s health institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u130	Please, Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as minister of such an important ministry. That's the question. The number of children with disabilities has increased by 21 percent in recent years. At the same time, the state does not use available opportunities to treat children with disabilities year-round in children's sanitariums, especially during the fall and winter seasons. Please tell me what needs to be done to ensure that these sanatoriums are not privatized, and they can thus, without being used, be privatized? And what must be done to treat children year after year? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u132	First of all, I want to say that, despite the fact that this is a very big problem, the organization of healing and sanatorium treatment for children with disabilities, we have 134 thousand of them last year in health facilities, without sanatoriums and resorts, we've cured almost 18,000 children, and in 2002 it was 6,000. 8,000 children who are in institutions subordinated to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are provided with both sanatorium and medicine. Local authorities plan about 50,000 children with disabilities to be healed next year. Yet, your question is absolutely just and your concern is extremely just. And this year, in line with the Supreme Council's decision, in the development of the State Sanatorium and Curiosity Development Programme, a separate chapter is being developed on sanatorium, and I'd say not just to heal, but to treat children with disabilities. This is a very serious question. All state-communal property institutions, and health-care institutions, and resort sanatoriums, are included in that government decision that I've been talking about, in the near future, the government's decision will be taken to prohibit the liquidation or retraining of these institutions. And what needs to be done. Of course, we need to work better, have more money, and take it very seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u133	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u134	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine: "How many children have been healed whose parents are unemployed and at what cost?" Dear people's deputies, to be honest, we don't have that kind of statistics. Last year, we worked very hard with the State Committee on Statistics, identified a number of categories of child benefit: orphans and deprived of parental care, children with disabilities, children with kidney disease, children of deceased militias, military personnel, children of dead miners, children of many children with low-security families. Of course, we treat such children as low - income families. I already told you that last year we cured, together, all over the country, children like this, about 420,000 out of many children and low-income families. I want to add that because the government supports our proposal, and it's not just our proposal -- it was the Supreme Council's decision to set up the All-U.S. Health and Recreation Centre, we're going to develop a more detailed programme and together with the State Statistical Committee to really know everything about children who are getting better: both rural children and children from unemployed families. [[We've already submitted these proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers.]] To that end, we are working on such a large program.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u135	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u136	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Valentina Ivanovna, it's a good thing you brought up the question today, but I'd like to talk to you a little bit with someone else. [[Maybe it's related to my previous question.]] Today we're only talking about the recovery of summer, but unfortunately, we're not talking about the institutions that have to work year-round: this is the treatment of cerebral paralysis, diabetes, the children of the Chernobyl family. In particular, the preservation of facilities in order to carry out such treatment. Have you done a detailed analysis in the Ministry: How many TB sanatoriums do we still have for the treatment of children, how many other objects in which they are in their condition? Because it is a very deep question and needs it today, as it were, a broader study and a broader focus of executive power on issues that are problematic today in Ukraine? Tell me, what is going on in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u137	I want to say that the National Programme for Child Health and Recreation provides that during 2004, each area should be transferred to a full-year operation of at least two children's health facilities, I mean not sanatoriums, but children's health facilities for the overall recovery of children. In 2002, we had 17 such facilities. Last year, 28 were translated. According to these areas, this year we're going to have 42 of these facilities. This is certainly not enough. We have to make sure that at least 54 of these facilities work. And that will give us an opportunity to increase the number of children to be healed, at least by 200,000, because, you know, the new base is not being built and that's why. And we need to keep increasing the number of children who are getting better. So we need to use it more effectively. So these are the questions that we're working on. Regarding anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums, sanatoriums. You know that they are subordinated to the Ministry of Health. We now have more than 9,000 seats, 12 of them for nearly 2.5 thousand seats, and by no means will there be a reduction in the number of seats in these sanatoriums this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u138	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u139	Again, the question is how many rural children are cured. I already told you that we're going to be working on statistics this year and we're going to take this category of children into account. I want to say that the Ministry of Agricultural Policy has 106 children's health facilities in the health centre. Last year they cured more than 80,000 children, 66,000 of them children of the agrarian and industrial complex. And there were certainly a lot of kids among the others, well we just don't have that kind of statistics, we're going to expand this statistics.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u140	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u141	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I know you're doing a lot, and I hope you do more. I want you to record for yourself that there is such a hospital, Children's Hospital No. 2 in Zaporozhye, where 105 beds have been reduced in the last year. These unscrupulous people cut 105 beds, including the elimination of a neurological ward that has worked for 25 years and is well - known both in and outside Ukraine. You just said that unfortunately, the facilities aren't being built. Why aren't they building? What prevents new facilities from being built today? What prevented the government from preventing the nursery from moving out of the French boulevard, which had been thrown out to build a villa in Odessa? WHAT prevented you from taking possession of the sanatorium that you were talking about right now, the Young Guard, that belongs to a pioneer organization that seems to be. How did he get there? What, did the pioneers work or something? I've asked you a lot of questions, I've been asking the government, and I'd like to hear these answers, and the answer is, "Why did the number of labor and rest camps go down twice, twice, and why do we reduce the number of days that children spend, to 14 days on average? What, in 14 days, that kid's gonna be all right?" I think we need to increase spending 10 times this year, and this year, if we want to take care of this people, the gene pool of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u142	Answer. It's about a gas station. The Ministry of Health and I will deal with this. With regard to labor camps and recreation. Not doubled, but twice as many labor camps and rest camps. About the term. In agreement with the Ministry of Health and statistics have been in place since last year, and such norms in sanatoriums, sanatoriums of 21-24 days, in general children's health camps not less than 14 days. Next. It's about Young Guards. It's not in the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers to take measures to change the owner. I've already talked to you, please let's see how we can change the owner. My soul hurts for Young Guards, too. But what they've already agreed to work with the state this year, to run programs for the rehabilitation of socially vulnerable children and on a tender basis, so to speak, along with everyone, to win a tender, that's good, and we'll support them. Regarding the anti-tuberculosis sanatorium in Odessa at the French Boulevard. First. He was neglected and had been out of work for several years. You know there's another one built there. And as far as I know, I've been communicating with the mayor of Odessa, and these destroyed buildings will be restored, and there will be a children's health facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u143	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u144	How do the Chernobyl children, how many of them, heal? The Blackwater Children's Health Organization is being carried out by the Ministry of the Ukraine with extraordinary circumstances and Chernobyl in accordance with the Government's Order, which was adopted in May 2000, it envisions a competition for the selection of sanatoriums for the rehabilitation of children in this category. The Ministry of Emergency Development develops an annual programme of measures for the management of children’s health. We now have about 900,000 children who are suffering from the Chernobyl disaster. I've already said that in the last year 246,000 children have recovered -- about 30 percent -- and more than 37 percent have been cured and treated in sanatoriums and resorts. I've already said that there is a problem this year, and the Prime Minister has commissioned this problem, the government's socio-humanitarian committee will do anything to correct the budget and increase the Ministry's budget in order not to reduce, but to increase by 10 percent the number of children of Chernobyl who will be cured this year. It's a very difficult problem, but we'll be working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u145	Please, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u146	Dear Valentin Ivanovna, I am unfortunately on the list of speakers 17. I don't think it's going to be my turn, so let me just say that I don't share your optimism about the state of the child's health last year. Over the course of 10 years, 600 outposts have been closed. And those who worked last year cured less than 10 per cent of school-age children. And those who worked were loaded by only 70 per cent. Because they're on their own. There is no need for them on the ground or for the State as a whole. And these are the enormous numbers for the recovery of children in the suburban camps. I'm going to say very briefly. And on the one hand and on the other hand, it's just food, not healing. But the question of another. What are you doing so far to ensure that the public committees and other authorities do not rob the camp with licences for tourism, hotel services certification, food management certification and the like? You probably know that you need to get 15 permits, a deal that costs 20 or 25 grand. And the second question. Why has it been delayed until 2005 to establish a project on recreation and child recovery? It was needed very much yesterday, not in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u147	First of all, the State Program for Child Health provides that a bill on child recovery will be developed in 2005. To implement the government's decision, the Supreme Council's decrees we started to develop last year, this year, I'll repeat it, we'll put it to the Supreme Council, and we're very hopeful that the legislative support of this area, such as the rehabilitation of children, will enable better work, more children to be healed. First. It's different. We have the results of an inventory of 1006 children's health facilities in the area. In the past year, 794 children’s health facilities and 82 children’s health - care facilities worked. Arithmetics are simple, if by 6.2 million children of school age, and state statistics confirm that 2 million 149 thousand 382 children are cured, I just count that it can't be 10 percent. And I absolutely share your concern, your concern. We're the only ones left to work. And this year, there will be an increase in the number of children who will recover. Also this year, to introduce several institutions that are broken down, destroyed, and driven to their minds. And that's what our work with you is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u148	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u149	The People's Authority MP. How many children were cured last summer, what percentage did they make of the total number of children to be cured? Dear colleagues, I've already answered that question, 34.2 percent. And our task, we talked to you last year, and this year, our task is very quickly, if you want to get to 50 percent, because every other child is on a dissipation basis, and it needs treatment and recovery. How many rest camps are in Ukraine right now, how many of them were working, I also called those numbers. And in terms of areas, we want to increase by 15, the number of foster care establishments that will work this year, and increase from 28 to 42 the number of children's health facilities that will work around the clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u150	Please, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u151	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I did not understand from those questions and from your answers, do we not have the power and the right to give the status of the Youth Guard, the status of the State Health Institute? And the second question is, How do you personally feel about the so - called day - care facilities? These two million, they probably go in too, but there are literally a few hours of children and they're relaxing. Is that a salutation, or is that so, sorry to say such harsh words as osmosis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u152	The Young Guard in 1990, which belonged to the Komsomol of Ukraine, was handed over to the Society of Pioneer Organizations. The National Council of Children’s Organizations is the legal successor of the pioneer organization association, and there is a document that confirms that it belongs to them. Please tell me that you can only make a decision, a decision of the Supreme Council on, to put it mildly, the nationalization of this object. I'm going to repeat, as far as the powers we have are concerned, we convinced them that we need to move on to a civilized course of cooperation with the state, as provided for by the Supreme Council's decree, namely to work for a government order. And they agreed this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u153	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u154	Huh? The daily health care facilities? Daily health facilities, such practices, and such traditions go far, far away from Soviet times. And of course, maybe I'll agree with you, too, that it's better in a children's health facility, an out-of-town, stationary facility, but we don't have and we don't have that number of establishments. So it's so much better when a child is in a day-care facility, when they're working with her, when they're getting better nutrition than sorry when she's wandering around the street alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u155	Please, Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u156	Why doesn't the government have a government order for the organization and rehabilitation of orphans, children with disabilities, deprived of parental care? Dear National Deputies! We are in the process of healing these categories of socially unprotected benefits in accordance with government decree 323, which was adopted in April 1997. It's this decision that will give priority to the allocation of funds, the cost of health care for orphans, children with disabilities, children deprived of parental care, children from low-income families, and I've told you about it. In fact, it's an element of government procurement, and last year we've been making sure that all the funds that are allocated from the state budget and from the local budget on a tender basis are channelled to the purchase of travel and to the transfer of travel to these categories of children, and I told you that we have, in a very optimistic way, I'm not at all satisfied with these results of work, but there are results that I owe you to report on. According to a Supreme Council decree, the Ministry of Economics, together with the Ministry of Finance and with the State Committee, will develop and by summer of this year we will develop a public procurement mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u157	Please have a written question. It's already been done. Now, the Police, the Communist faction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u158	Please give the word to Anatoly Orzhachovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u159	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u160	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Andriy Anatolyevich! Dear Valentina Ivanovna! Many restorators view the Herson region as the most attractive area for healing and recreation. The area has three seas, hot springs with healing properties. Probably because of this, during the rest and recovery period of 2003, the Hersonian Region’s Cabinet of Ministers decreed that its coastal zone was defined as the basic area for the treatment and family rest of children. What are the government’s intentions in this regard for 2004? If they are the same, was it considered the recognition of one of the coastal health zones in the Skadowsk region, Gopri, Kalanczak, Genicek, with the status of a children's resort? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u161	Last year we actually increased funding from the state budget, we increased funding just for the organization of health camps and sanatoriums in the Herson area. We are grateful to the people's deputies that you added two million in the middle of last year to the children's health, and this has enabled them to support themselves. And in that, and the Hersonian area has a fairly high level of child recovery, and, above all, children from other regions. You know, we have the Eupatoria children's resort. We know about these proposals, and along with the Ministry of Health, we will deal with the definition of the Herson region, especially Scadovian, such a child - care zone with priorities. I think that's what we'll be able to do when we consider the draft of our healing bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u162	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u163	"What is the state of implementation of the National Deputies' proposals for legislation on child health and rest?" I answered that question, in November of this year, we're handing over the law on the organization of health, rest and leisure for children. Committee on Youth Policy in Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism: "What measures are being taken by the government to address the shortcomings identified during the health campaign for the prosecution's organs on unjustified closure and liquidation, re-training of children's health institutions. In order not to allow the facts of unjustified closure, liquidation and retraining, the Prime Minister was instructed by the local authorities to carry out the inventory. You know, we did it last year. On this basis, we have prepared, together with the State Property Fund, local authorities, prepared and submitted a position to the government to approve a list of state-owned property camps that are prohibited from liquidation or re-profile. According to the results of the work, a sufficient number of people have been called to account, and where there have been transfers, either on lease, or on sale, or on retraining of children’s health facilities, these cases are referred to the courts. At present, cases involving the Mikolai and Kharkiv region are being tried in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u164	Peter Kuzmenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u165	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u166	Please, Igor Shurma, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, in my opinion, today's discussion of this problem is going on a little bit in a narrowed form. We talk and focus on the healing of children, and I'd rather have questions raised today about how to organize children's rest, because we're talking about summer, and that's what we're talking about today. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I think that the absence of a program, or perhaps even a law, leads to the fact that we are talking more and more about a spiritual crisis, and the problem of creating a healthy way of life and raising children, and of homeless people, and of drug abuse, and of HIV infection. Do you think it is necessary to develop a special program, perhaps a program for the recovery of children, for the rest of children in the summer, or should it be a program of the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u168	The Ministry of Education has such a branch program. Your offer and your comments are very appropriate. And I've already said that now, following the Supreme Council's decree, a group of experts is working on a draft Ukrainian law on the organization of health, rest and leisure for children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u169	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u170	Committee on Social Policy and Labour. What is the economic stimulus mechanism for businesses that organize and perform child-rearing work, and how is it implemented in the government's recommendation for the provision of possible benefits to children's health facilities in utilities, health care, energy supply? Indeed, such an assignment was given and given annually by the government at its selective meetings with local authorities and at the country -wide meetings on how to prepare children for recovery. And the vast majority of district councils, city councils, district councils, make decisions for children’s health facilities, or other benefits. I'll give you just one example. Last year, the decision of the Church District Council in May was that all children's sanatoriums and health facilities were exempt from taxes on land. This may also have played a positive role, and more than 40 percent of school - age children were cured in the Cherkas region last summer. That's one of the best indicators.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u171	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine". You don't? George Manchulenko, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u172	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region of the Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Valentina Ivanovna! Here's a table of health indicators for children in the summer of 2003. The Chernobyl area: all school-age children, 134 thousand 197, are cured 34 thousand 401 or 25.6 percent. And what does the rest do, 74.4 percent? What are the government's plans and your ministry's plans in this section? Because such an indicator is simply a figure, to put it mildly, unsatisfying. Next. How many children from low - income families are cured? How many of the children from the two areas of the Chernivecki region of Kismensky, Zastavansky, who suffered from the Chernobyl disaster are healed? Including "Artec." The media reported that instead of children of low - income families, the children of officials left. They too need to rest, but not at the expense of someone. Are there plans for the government to make health camps, such as in the Carpathian region of Cherniewec? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u173	In my speech, I certainly called better areas that worked better than the average in Ukraine. We have, unfortunately, not only the Chernobyl area, there's still Ivano-Frankivsky, there's still Ternopilska, there's Ravenska, there's Žitomirska, which worked much worse than the average in Ukraine have 20, 25 as in the Chernivecki region. That, of course, the meeting held at the end of the year under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Wolodymirovich Tobacco reported primarily to the deputy heads of the state administrations, in which the Supreme Council's rulings were poorly followed, and accordingly to the government's programme of action. In the Chernobyl area. As we move to a place soon, we will examine these issues in detail in the head of the district government, and where we need help, we will help, and there we will ask, and then we will ask them. I just want to let you know that the Chernobyl area is one of those that's already predicted that. and identified one of the facilities that will work around the clock, and this will enable a significant increase in the number of children who will be healed on the local base. With regard to the distribution of travel to Artec, this issue will be dealt with by law enforcement agencies, and will be held accountable by those who have violated the law and the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u174	Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u175	In the Chernobyl area, the facility that is determined to work is a fixed year round and is in the Carpathians.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u176	Valentina Ivanovna, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u177	Subcommittee on Social Welfare for Young People. "Is the Government's State Program for the Annual Recovery of Children with Disabilities?".. I just want to say that we have not fully complied with this point of the Supreme Council's decision, and there are appropriate reasons for that. We have consulted in government and in view of what is currently being developed in the State Sanatorium Development Programme 2005-2015, there will be a separate chapter on the organization of health care services for children with disabilities. And we are now working, including with Mr. Rahanski, to make this chapter concrete and to help solve this problem. This is a very difficult problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u178	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u179	Congratulations, Valentina Ivanovna. Finally, justice prevails in Ukraine, and we have a ministry that expresses the interests of family, women, and young people. And I want to ask that question. Every year for the healing of rural children, whom we heal more than 80,000 a year, among them the vast majority of them are children of orphans, those children from many children in the Chernobyl area were separated from the state budget by 4.5 million. It's a small amount, but this year these costs are completely unallocated. Dear Velentino Ivanovno, we have asked very much that the healing of the rural critter should not be overlooked. Although there is fresh air, there are still enough families for their children to be cured, treated, and so forth. That is why there is such a question. If you had seen improvements in the health of rural children themselves?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u180	Catherine Timothy, thank you for asking. It's really a problem. There's a deputy minister here, and he and I are now dealing with the question of how, after the first quarter budget implementation, to restore the costs that were incurred last year. They have helped to heal more than 80 grand. Children. We've met with the ministry's management, with the management of a health centre that has 106 camps on the balance sheet, where we've found ways to support agri-industrial enterprises in these establishments, and at the same time we're going to be making proposals for budget changes, and we're going to ask you very much to support this very important issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u181	Valentina Ivanovna, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u182	"What measures have been taken to bring to justice natural and legal persons for appropriate violations in the children's summer rest organization in 2003?" In fact, we are very concerned that last year, as in previous years, there have been many health and epidemiology violations, many institutions have been opened without the permission of health authorities. There have been many eating disorders. And I've already told you that 554 people have been called to account and more than a thousand have been removed from activity at all. 18 cases have been referred to the investigators for failure to comply with safety instructions, fire safety, and so forth. Thus, the response of the relevant central local authorities to the failure to comply with the safety and health rules of the child - care organization was in line with existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u183	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u184	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, well, it's clear that the situation, as in the first question, as in discussing the second question, is clear that the situation is too complex in this matter, but perhaps your guilt is not great here, because it is the result of the free, perhaps, reforms that are taking place in our country. But I can see, with the opportunity, that there will be no turn to the speech that I want on behalf of the head of the Tokmak City Council of Velicz Mikli Leonidovich, this is the Zaporzik area, which gives you great thanks for having given you, on my address last year, a huge aid to you on your return to the communal property of the Tokmak district health camp in Tokmak on the shore of the Azov Milky Liman, the coast, which has actually grown in Tokmak. And a great request continues to be made to help these children’s health facilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u185	Thank you. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour asks the following question. With regard to property reform, the lack of economic interest of children’s health care providers has nearly doubled in recent years. What measures will be taken by the government to strengthen the state’s support for child health, including with regard to the decision to include the cost of health work with children in government and local budgets. I already answered the first part of the question. We have the right of local authorities to make decisions about the granting, the setting up of child - care benefits, and many local authorities use them. It's about the second part. In accordance with your decision of the Supreme Council, which required the government to provide for a separate line of expenditure in the State and Local Budget for the organization of child recovery, the Ministry of Finance, by its order of 29 December last year, added two temporary classifications of local budget expenditure, additionally introduced a functional classification code under this title, "Actions for the implementation of regional programmes for the rest and recovery of children". In some parts of the area, some of the district councils and local councils benefited. And this has enabled the local budgets to provide almost 30 million dollars for the recovery of children, for the purpose of recovery of children, more than in the past year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u186	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u187	I just answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u188	And the letter was answered, sorry. Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u189	Assadchev. "Our Ukraine." Valentina Ivanovna! I don't have as many questions as there are. You know, in the Academy of Sciences system, there was the only children's health camp "Cashtan," he survived in very difficult conditions, and God forbid, he's working today, too. And all the governments we've all had have put together funds to prepare for our children's summer vacation. It's not that big of a money. This government, unfortunately, in 2003, threw this money out of the budget, we fixed it on the committee, and we put it back there, and there's code, and there's everything. In 2004, again, it seems to me that this conscious policy was completely misunderstood, and this money was thrown out again. But given that the budget had already been audaciously extended through the Supreme Council, it had not actually been considered. It turns out there's no money. I personally wrote to Boris Eugenovich Patton that they might have helped. I have a request for you, too, and you might want to go from the Ministry to the Academy, at least let's go with you, if you're making budget changes, we'll return the funding to this children's camp.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u190	Thank you. Well, we're going to deal with this and support programs for repairs, as you know, we don't have the right, we have the right to prepare, and the health program, let's make proposals, we'll support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u191	Then Rodion's Mikhailo. There are no letters, you said more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u192	There's more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u193	Yes, then, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u194	Again, the issue concerns the payment of land taxes. I've already informed you that the State Budget concludes that the definition of Article 12 of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the institution, which is the national institutions of culture, science, education and rehabilitation of patients specializing in the rehabilitation of patients, is not taxed on land. Since a children’s health institution is an education facility under the law, we feel that it should not be taxed on land either.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u195	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u196	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, you spoke of flaws. But my question is, what is done to keep these flaws from happening? Because when parents send their children to health, they realize that it will be a cure, not a tragic death. What you said there was someone being punished was already a fact. And my question is, what is done to ensure that the following year such facts are not saddened?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u197	Well, first of all, we need to increase the responsibility of everyone involved in the organization of child health, starting with senior officials and finishing up with the management of children's health facilities. What we're really doing. By the end of last year, we had gathered the vast majority of children's health workers who had joined Leleka in public education, communication, instruction. We, I already told you, in December, held a meeting on preparation for the 2004 Summer Health Organization and warned all the deputy heads of the district administrations, were present, participated in all the deputy heads of the central executives, who are now conducting training seminars, interviews with those who will control the discovery, and with those who are responsible for meeting the conditions of the child recovery organization. The question is: "According to the guidelines of the State Tourism Administration, children's health camps require that they receive a separate licence for the introduction of tourism activities, in addition to the cost of the licence itself, the cost of learning on the basis of tourism, the payment of travel fees and so on. This is also true of the State Committee on Technical Control, by its order of January 27, 1999, that he assigned these areas of child health care facilities to tourism subjects, requiring them to be paid a separate fee, to carry out mandatory certification of hotel services and food services. Dear colleagues, last year after the issue of preparation for the rehabilitation of children in March 2003 was discussed and a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council was taken, these issues were also addressed in compliance with the Supreme Council’s decision. In the government of Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Vladimirovich Tobacco, a meeting was held, the matter was discussed -- and the State Tourism Administration, and the State Committee on Technical Regulations sent to the sites instructional letters explaining that there would be no licensing costs for children's health facilities that did not provide tourist services. And we tried to reach each of the children’s health facilities, from the direction to explain that position. And those who knew it certainly didn't pay any money. And those institutions that, in addition to child health, are also involved in the provision of tourist services, accepting people for money, profiting from it, of course, are obliged to buy a license and pay for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u198	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u199	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Valentina Ivanovna, indeed, we are witnessing that the State Committee, which you presided over up until recently, has been actively involved in the recovery of children. We hope the Ministry will do this even more actively. But former pioneer camps, such as those within Chernigova, have been destroyed and are now building huts or receiving local bourgeois for another purpose. As a result, these disadvantages continue. Is there a government record of how many children’s health facilities, especially those known, have been destroyed during the years of the introduction of capitalist social relations in Ukraine? And are there any intentions in the government to save the rest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u200	According to the inventory carried out in every area, including Montenegro, we have a list of all health facilities, and these, I told you, 1006. I told you how many of them worked. 126 didn't work last year. Our task is to deal with them now this year, next year, with these camps in order to bring them in order, to find funds, to repair and maybe replace the owner, but not to allow retraining, so that these institutions continue to work for children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u201	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u202	Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood "How the healing and rest of children with disabilities were organized. care, orphans, Chernobyl and dead miners? And how many are there?" I've done it. I've already answered that question. "What will be done by the government to reduce the cost of travel for children in the summer of 2004?" I've already told you that in December there was an assignment for all the local authorities to make the most of the arrangements and to make decisions to fix energy benefits, utility benefits, for children's health facilities, and this year we're in the past year. Well, systematized this job, this year we'll have more control over how local authorities implement these government recommendations and thus affect travel costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u203	National MP Phydenko, Communist faction. You don't? Then Olga Hinzburg. You won't? Is it? Olga Hinzburg, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u204	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I have a question for you. Of course, there's a lot of work in your ministry, and of course there's a lot of problems in Ukraine with children, and we see a lot of kids walking the streets on the station. Whether there are any of them today, work is being done. Are they cured or not? And I have a second question. Please tell me who controls the quality of meals in rest homes, pioneer camps, where they often provide food that has passed through all or some kind of humanitarian aid, and these children have been poisoned all the time, or are in such a state, and I have to see that children eat junk food in these pioneer camps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u205	Regarding the carefree children, last year in 94 state shelters and in 18 social rehabilitation centres and 40 child welfare institutions, which are owned and created by public organizations and foundations, we have provided assistance to over 40,000 children, 2/3 of them are children who have their own families, and about half of them are returned to the family. I've already said that in the last year, we've been actively working in every area, we've identified camps for children with divinative behavior that we're referring to as carefree children, and about 30,000 of these children have either left a socio-psychological rehabilitation facility, or out of a nursing home for minors and have healed, about 30,000 children. It's about the quality of the food. This is being supervised by local health authorities and consumers. I told you that last year a state committee was actively working and thousands of people were, unfortunately, too many adults were called to account for the inadequacy of child feeding. And you know, we've had sad cases like in Kharkiv County in the Berezka Children's Health Camp, where so many children, and adults, and parents who came on the day of the open door to their children, and they all got sick. Now we've been talking to the head of the State Committee on Standardization, and we've agreed that in the near future we're going to have such an instructional meeting with all the employees so that they won't wait until June 1st, when it's open, but we're going to meet with the principals of the children's institutions and work with them in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u206	Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u207	What steps the government has taken to organize a year - long recovery. I answered that question. The year 17 - 2002 — 28 last year — worked. And we want to set up work with the local authorities at 42 children's health facilities this year. What is the state of state cadastres of the natural areas of resorts and natural healing resources? You know, according to the Law on Resorts in Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree that approved the procedure for the establishment and management of the national cadastral of the natural areas of the resorts and decided to approve the establishment and management of the national cadastral of natural healing resources. This work has been put on the Ministry of Health and part of it on the State Commission of Ukraine. Last year, the Ukrainian Institute for Curortology and Rehabilitation carried out its first research on the development of a system for collecting information from sources for determining the genealogy of natural resources. And this year, he's doing scientific research on the development of scientific bases just to create an automated system of the state inventory of natural resources. This work is carried out by the Ministry of Health, which is subject to its structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u208	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u209	I'm informing you about what's been done with the Ministry of Health. If you have any suggestions or questions that are more profound, let us meet with you tomorrow with the deputy minister who is responsible for these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u210	Vladimir Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u211	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Dear Valentin Ivanovna, you said in your information that you were planning to resuscitate 15 healing sites out of 126 this year, it seems that if I'm not mistaken, they also require reconstruction. But why don't you talk, and who brought these healing facilities. They were in good shape. Here today, when we considered the first question, Vladimir Mikhailovich urged us all to speak the truth and only the truth. So why don't you tell me whose fault they're destroyed today in such a short period of time. And the second question. How can it be that a simple woman who didn't know what business was until 1993, suddenly became the head of a fund like Children of Ukraine, where a lot of money revolved around? And, above all, in election campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u212	Well, first of all, about the camps that don't work. Let's be honest with each other, we all know why they don't work. Most of the camps we have. You know, it belonged to companies. If the company is bankrupt because the business is ineffective, what is the primary effect? In the social sphere of children’s health facilities. And our task is now to do everything we can to ensure that the maximum number of camps that function, if possible, can lead to a normal state of affairs so that we can provide services to children in health care and recreation with their parents. I think last year has shown that if we work together and openly. Honestly, as you say, and truthfully, we can achieve results. I'm asking you to support these central executive bodies, the local executive authorities that are working on the program of child recovery. Then we'll have a result. As to the second question. If you mean Ludmila Mikolayevna Kuchma, then Ludmila Mikolayevna Kuchma has been elected by several, since 93, of course, from 97 or 98th Honorary President of the National Children's Fund. And it does this work on public grounds and does it well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u213	Yes, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u214	"How does the government plan to increase the number of healthy children who have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster if reduced twice?" I told you, really, it's a real pain that the government will correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u215	Yeah, that's it. We've got a complete list on record. Let's get this over with. Is there no objection? Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna. I invite Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism. From Rahansky's procedure, please, Anatoly. I'm sorry, Catherine Seed. Microphone, please. Turn on Anatoly Rahansky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u216	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a request to observe an order, three minutes and to rule out, because many are willing to speak. And there's a request to continue for 15 minutes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, we will still have time, since the report will continue after that discussion. So we'll have enough time in two hours. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government! An analysis by the government of information on the summary of the recovery of children last summer and on the implementation of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a study of the status of the matter by committee members, including the holding of exit meetings, gives reason today to say that a number of specific measures have been taken to ensure that children are being treated. Compared with the 2002 healing season, executive authorities of all levels, local self-governance authorities have been more thoroughly involved in the preparation of health facilities, a number of tests have been carried out to create proper conditions for the stay and maintenance of children, provided with relevant information and medical materials, developed a typical position on a child health care facility, and in addition, nearly 150 million dollars have been involved in the rehabilitation of children, and some other measures have been taken. In summary of the foregoing, we can talk about the fact that the government of local self-government, along with the people's deputies, and thanks to a consistent position on this issue to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has managed to remove this problem from the place. This is encouraging, but there can be no basis for producing victorious reports and reports on valid figures and it is inappropriate to do so. Take, for example, the State Budget for this year, based on the cost of recovery. The Ministry of Emergency Situations is reducing the cost by 44 million dollars. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is also downgrading. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy -- in 2003 -- was earmarked for this target of 4.5 million dollars, and for this year it was zero. According to the State Budget, compared to last year, minus almost 40 million. Think about it, respectable colleagues, where we can save lives on the children of the Chernobyl family, on the children of the peasants, and on the children with disabilities. Even the increase in local budget spending on these measures does not cover the need to finance the State’s rest and rehabilitation program. The underfunding is almost 70 million. In addition to that, there is still a negative 90 million on the issue of the social insurance fund. The issue of land tax payments by health facilities remains unresolved, and we can say that at the beginning of the 2004 healing season, health care facilities, including the increase in travel prices, are in a very difficult position a large part of them may not start work and, at best, will only open up for one change. The government did not respond properly to the proposals of the national deputies for the creation of a single form of statistical calculation of the number of premium categories, and there was no definition of the legislative body that would make the calculation. There is no support for proposals on the appropriateness of establishing a government order for the organization of rest and the recovery of the child’s benefit categories. Today, there are over 100,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care in Ukraine. Nearly 2 million children from underprivileged, multi-child families, some 1 million children who are affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And where we go to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the State Budget to predict a government order for a vulnerable category of children, the fact is that children's disability has increased by more than 20 percent. Nor can it be disturbed that, according to tests by the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, executive authorities and local self - government, they do not control or take effective measures envisaged by the current legislation on the preservation of health facilities, the prohibition of changing their identity, subordination, merger and closure in almost all regions, the network of children’s, health institutions is shrinking. Yes, the executive authorities of the Mikolai region, in spite of existing current legislation, have made contracts for the rentals of full-scale property complexes of the children's health facilities "Timurivec" and "Tavria" with further investment in the sub-norundation and sale of basic and negotiable funds. Sadly, such facts are not isolated. The sale, the change in profile, the alienation of children's health facilities took place in Kharkiv, Ivano-Frankiv, Chernobyl. A number of health - care providers have not functioned for more than ten years, leading to their destruction and, in the future, to their sale at reduced prices. According to the U.S. Attorney General’s Office, the State Property Fund and its regional offices do not take any measures to prevent the illegal activities of preserving the property of children’s institutions, and the immoral government authority, to close their eyes on the embezzlement of children in our country! According to the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, 22 children’s institutions were not opened in Donetsk, Zaporzik, Hmelnicki, Kharkiv for these reasons at the beginning of the healing season! Last year’s health campaign was remembered for almost every week in the media reports of the CHP in children’s health facilities. In Zaporozhye County, in a bone-to-tuberculosis sanatorium, a minor was killed, in Winnitsky County in a number of child camps and sanatoriums children were admitted without proper medical documents! Food conditions are being affected. In June alone, 400 cases of child trauma and mass food poisoning, dangerous infectious diseases, were reported. Is there a system of material compensation for the loss of health in the state? No, it's not. Compulsory parental insurance is provided only for children who leave for recovery and rest outside Ukraine. And the mechanism for this procedure in the country's sanatorium and health facilities for today is not working. In recent years, there has been no summer health season to mention a number of violations by officials during the distribution of travel to the International Children's Centre, Artek. The year 2003 was no exception. And the very idea that the International Children's Centre refers to the President's Administration, I think I should take a look at it. There was a state committee, there's a ministry that deals with these issues -- he's got to solve all these questions. I want to say that it is also in the Gitomirsk, Mikolaiwisk, Hersonsk, Chernigiv region that criminal cases have been committed on this issue. One reason is that the State has a number of central executives involved in the organization and in the recreation and rehabilitation of children, and the role of coordinator in the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth has not been established by law. And there are seven babysitters who are known to be unsupervised. We are wasting precious time, and the corresponding draft law of Ukraine has not yet been prepared. Undeveloped and unapproved state social standards in this area need to be improved in the budgetary classification for more efficient control over spending. According to members of our committee, this is not a complete list of problems that we need to solve together, and in this room too. Of course, due to lack of funding, many of the measures envisaged by the government program are becoming quite problematic. So I propose to include in our draft decisions on this issue: recommending to the government by May 1, this year to invent additional funds for the recovery of children, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft laws that we have already mentioned, and to organize a national programme for the treatment of children with disabilities and children with chronic diseases. I also suggest that we make a determination: that the government develop a mechanism for land tax compensation into local budgets, freeing children's health care from this kind of tax. This question must be resolved. I also feel that it is necessary for us to take up the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry, so that the minimum term for the recovery of children is set, more faithfully, optimally, for at least 21 days. I want to say it again when I finish. Over the past two years, thanks to joint efforts and especially positions, I think the Supreme Council of Ukraine has really moved some of the positive issues out of place. Sadly, though, a number of problems remain unresolved. And I didn't understand the position of the government when it's a year away from solving these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. We have 35 minutes to discuss, but we will increase by 15 minutes as agreed, and Anatoly Rahansky suggested. Please state on board the names of the national MPs who are registered. The word is Puzakov, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u220	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, much has been said about the kind of successful implementation of the State Health and Recreation Program in the summer of 2003. Of course, curing 34, 2 percent of school - age children would be very good, but that is not the case. The number of children who have rested and improved their health in the rehabilitation facilities of Ukraine is highly questionable. I would like to have reliable information — how many children were resting at the expense of their budget, and what children are, and who their parents are. As a national MP, I was approached by parents whose children are on dissipation, who are in desperate need of a spa treatment, but for them, the wall is all over the place. A number of regions, including the Kyrovograd region, have already identified institutions that provide children with year - round rest and recovery. However, decisions regarding their status, subordination, sources of funding cannot be removed, not soon after the summer of 2004. In Soviet times, the city of Kirovogradland was built with beautiful camps, just towns that were adapted for the day - to - day stay of a high school student, where, apart from the work, the child was healed. But in the free Ukraine, unfortunately, and here came the hands of the real deal, and it was sold and like the final, it was shattered. Why was it not mentioned today, except for the ministries that at the cost of their lives create conditions for the recreation of children? In Kirovgrad, 18 years is the best in the area of Brigantina Children's Camp, and thanks only to a skilled leader, the good master of the Final Mikola Theofanovich has preserved the original beauty of this facility. During the summer, the camp receives more than a thousand children. Blackbeards, orphans, children with disabilities. In order to heal the children there are wonderful conditions, but the state has forgotten that there is also a need to change the furniture because they have a deadline, and a linen new date, and dishes, and medical equipment, and so on. To this day, a health camp is in dire need of material help. I would like Valentina Ivanovna to be studied at the national level and to have a generalized positive experience in the work of such people as the Final One. There are not many in Ukraine. The summer of 2003 had passed, but the problems of child rest and recovery had not diminished. For their part of the solution, I propose that we increase the allocation of funds for the recovery of children and, above all, the number of socially vulnerable groups in the population be expanded. Work camps and recreation for older children, costing children’s travel and the cost of health care, and improving the financing of health facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin. The faction of our Ukraine. Mikola Sherschun will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u222	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies, Reverend Valentina Ivanovna, distinguished Ukrainian people! The question that we're looking at here today refers to what's called seasonal, because it always rises before the beginning of the holiday season. It's like harvesting, preparing for the heating season, etc. It was considered in two years three times. But I think this Government Day should all begin, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with a report on the previous decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. Why wasn't there a Prime Minister or a Deputy Prime Minister at least today and on the rostrum? Are only our future young people just words? Did he read the Prime Minister about what he signed in the manual? And in the manual on the 5th sheet, Victor Fedorovich, you signed that 82.5 million dollars is less than last year's $28.5 million in health care for children affected by an accident in CHEUS. People, what is 82 million dollars? The shadow money that went to privatize each of the largest objects is larger in dollars than what you put on children. So I encourage the government to return from the 7 billion that now lie in the shadows and in the government in charge of adopting the budget, and to allocate these funds, at least part of them, to children. We used to have Crimea as a public health care provider. Today, it may be cheaper to go abroad for a vacation and send the children away. This is how our voters write so that the planes do not fall because it is expensive to rest in Crimea. We were discussing the privatization of the socio-cultural sphere. Most of the children’s camps in businesses have already been reclassified to private casinos and ranches. Only Olga Mikhailovna’s arrival to Odessa stopped the sale of another piece of land at 13 fountain stations in Odessa, where they had already paid $7,000 for one hundred. This is where the rehabilitation center, before that was the pioneer camp. There's a $7,000 assignment and they're waiting, and now the President's running a public service price check on Odessa. And then he gives the command: you're not going to have a hard time there! You're there careful! And it was only the head of the government who was criticizing the city council, who immediately ran off to complain to the president. Well, it's about the kids.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u223	Yes, five seconds, ten seconds, please, to complete the thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u224	I'd like to propose that we actually free sanatoriums from land taxes and create conditions for the year-round functioning of these facilities. And this should be the daily task of all the leaders, the government, the Supreme Council, the state, and the deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u225	Yuri Anatolyovich, you're 20 seconds away as a regular speaker. Please, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, faction of the Agrarian Party. Ukraine. Chernewsky will be next in line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u226	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, members of the government! Today, I don't want to give an assessment of the health campaign last year, but I want to focus on the problems it's exposed to, all the more so that these problems, if they're not solved, will have a negative impact on the recovery of the year. First, local authorities are unable to provide adequate funding for an annual health campaign for children because there is no specific line of funding for these purposes in the State budget. This question was raised from this rostrum at the hearings last year, but the wagon is still there. The problem of summer rest in places is then solved by opening day camps at educational institutions. But such recreation is not adequate and in part solves the problem of organizing leisure and employment. I am convinced that any progressive government proposals to address this issue will find support in the national MPs. Next. Healing children at the International Children's Centre, Artek. There are many children there, indeed, that dream, but every year the cost of traveling there increases. Today's Artek will cost over two thousand dollars. At this rate, 20-30 percent of the cost, i.e. 400-600 dollars should be paid by parents themselves. Adding the cost of travel, insurance, and food on the road raises the question: Which unprotected families will find such costs. Maybe today we'll find out who's going to Artek and stop saying "Artec" and say frankly, "It's a place for rich parents' children." I am a district MP contaminated by an accident in CHAES. During the budget discussion, I focused on the modest cost of healing the Chernobyl children. Sadly, though, my proposals were not taken into account. As a result, financing for the healing of children burned by Chernobyl has been halved. The sanatorium treatment and rest programme for the Chernobyl disaster is financed slightly more than two percent of the need. It's no longer just a violation of the Constitution, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, it's a violation that needs to be avoided immediately. And as a result of the implementation of the first quarter budget, look at the funding of the above-mentioned programmes. And the last. According to article 17 of the Law on the Status, Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, a list of institutions and organizations has been established to which the organization of annual sanatorium treatment and rehabilitation has been established. There's no such thing as the Ministry of Emergency Situations in this list. And according to article 49 of the 2004 Ukrainian Budget Act, it is the one responsible for the funds. So who's going to be doing the Chernobyl recovery this year? This rhetorical issue to the government remains open. If it is not resolved, the train of healing will go without these children. The state cannot buy health for these children. But it must do everything possible to ensure that wrong public decisions are not paid for their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u227	Leonid Cherniewecki, no. Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Andrea Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u228	Dear national MPs, members of the government! The fact that our children’s health is of great concern is that everyone in this regard agrees who would not speak. But all of this depends on the overall state of life in a country that is deteriorating, deteriorating, and deteriorating. What we need to talk about is how much we recovered in 2003 or what we're going to do in 2004. Every child needs to be healed, and this is definitely the case. But when we come to this particular issue, we always insist that we don't have enough money in the country. But that's not true. I walked in after my first speech in the government's bed and they tell me what you're criticizing the government. I'm not criticizing that this is what I want to show that I'm so smart, I'm so critical, just make conclusions, honest friends. We can't go any further, kids don't get better, but we're going to take the same Guta in the Ivano-Frankow region, and we're going to have to spend that kind of money there. It can be given in an appropriate way to heal children who need it. In 2003, 450 million health - care funds were spent, including 230 million government funds. And in the village of Ždinijevo Volovetsky district of Zakarpatsk, objects under the code name of the health establishment of the football club Dinamo Kyiv are worth 200-300 million grivins. Just think about it. And all the media say that it is Medvedchuk’s property, and this too needs to be considered, and in the village of Uklín of the same area a virtually destroyed pioneer camp of republican importance. So can't there be a few million more to find and support the same pioneer camp so our children can grow up, future football players, and no one can play then, and why is this health complex for Dynamo Kyiv if we don't have any healthy children. And this is a painting we're seeing virtually all over Ukraine. Dear friends! We're all mortals -- both the President, and the National MPs, and the Ministers, and the Private Employee, but why do we have a simple man for treatment who gets his last skin kicked, and the President in Baden-Baden can treat or rehabilitate him for crazy state funds. This too needs to be considered. When I meet voters at a crowd reception, it's because they can't heal. So here's a purely professional question. If senior officials are treated abroad, our medicine will never reach an adequate level. This too needs to be addressed. So I'm critical of this being understood. You, Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u229	Thank you. Give me a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u230	I'll tell you in a second. Valentina Ivanovna, I thank you personally for your help to that child, and parents thank you. But you have to understand that what your nobles have shown is a pitfall. We need all our children to be as supportive as the child you helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u231	Andrey Poliyet, then Leonid Chernewicki. I've already announced, Andrew Politt, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u232	Thank you, Andrey Polit, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Lenin Commodore of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! It is difficult to overestimate the importance of the annual recovery of children in terms of reducing the effectiveness of the child health system for years of independence, the serious deterioration of the health of the growing generation by all parameters. Undoubtedly, last year, including through the Government's initiatives of the Youth Committee, positive developments have been made to the Government's day, but there have been far more problems that have not been resolved. One such problem, and this was mentioned in the report, is a reduction in the quality of nutrition in children's health facilities, a lack of compliance with the rules. Only 396 orders had been issued last year for violations of health legislation, 3,313 fines had been issued, and 1,070 had been suspended. These are serious numbers. Facts of mass illness and child poisoning should not end in the search for gunmen but should lead to increased sanitation in all children's institutions. The level of pedagogical work with children has continued to decline, and health institutions have not always been able to provide a full cultural programme that develops and teaches forms of leisure. Travel prices had increased significantly in 2003, and the Government had unfortunately not taken any action in that regard. During Soviet times, many beautiful sanatoriums were built in Crimea and Western Ukraine for round-the-clock work. Today, most of them are simple, are not used and are illegally re-profiled. You might ask, ‘ What is the cause of this? Irrespective of the health of children or the desire to accept an inestimable child health care facility? ’ Undoubtedly, our children suffer from this, first and foremost. The Republic of Cuba gives us a wonderful example of genuine nobility towards the future of Ukraine, which, despite the many years of blockade on the part of the United States, is healing us from severe diseases and curing our children. I was recently at the health center and I saw with my own eyes the results of Cuban doctors and the happy faces of our children. A breakthrough in the implementation of the programme was the adoption of a Supreme Council regulation aimed at supporting this grand project. Cuba is ready to treat up to a thousand children for free today, and Ukraine, unfortunately, pays only 200. If power is not able to solve the whole set of problems today, it must focus on key areas: to focus on recovery, particularly the socially vulnerable categories of children, to halt the illegal re-profiling of child health care institutions, to increase the demands for cultural and educational programmes, to encourage the implementation of the State programme for the recovery of children by all Ukrainian children and youth organizations, to encourage the inflow of highly professional teachers, psychologists and social workers into the field of age recovery, and to strengthen the monitoring of sanitation standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u233	Leonid Chernewicki, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u234	"Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Darnick electoral district, Leonid Chernovetski, city of Kiev. Dear Chairman Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies and those who listen to us. I mean, I'm terrified of what we're talking about. And the very report of Valentina Ivanovna, and such a nice environment in our room: that we should recruit psychologists and children's institutions to develop where they will be, who will be? - children of people who are more or less well-off. But we have most of the kids in the garbage cans right now, and they're out there looking for food, Valentin Ivanovna. And I don't think I have any claims against you, that your place isn't in the Ministry, it's next to that garbage can with my machine. And watch them do it and how they can be helped. And if you could just say one word to any of these kids today, that's all. I would respect you for the rest of your life, although, once again, I say, I have no claim against you. [[And we have most of them in Ukraine.]] I think, by the way, that talking about the President not being treated there in Baden-Baden is not a joke, it's not a talk that's serious for the members of the Supreme Council, because he has to be treated where he can be cured because we need a healthy President. With regard to everything else, of course, the problem is simply horrifying, and the Ministry of Children and Youth is not doing it at all. Toxics, drugs, AIDS. Children are raped daily, they are at every corner. Tell me how many of these people you are. We have shown them compassion. Here I addressed Alexander Nikolaevich Stoyan, who is here in the hall. He sent 11 street children to the camps you're talking about last year without documents. [[I hope that's even more so.]] What "Artec"? What kind of problems are we discussing, and how can we finance them? Forget about it at all. Our main problem is to take children who are unable to pay for Artek or other children's institutions and take them seriously. And compassion. Because the Bible says that you will do wrong with your child, you will be burned in a pan in the light of the rest of your life. And that's a terrible problem. And I hope that the next hearing is worth nothing today. It must be immediately appointed, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and we must talk about these topics. Such a feeling that we are on Mars, not Ukraine, where children are street children and their parents are unable to pay for any children's institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u235	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Igor Šurma will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u236	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear government day! When you get to know the government's information and reference materials given to the meeting participants, you have to say that they're too exaggerated, like all Ukrainian statistics. Otherwise, we would not have had so many negative examples of the state of life of the young generation when there are countless homeless, hungry people in cities and villages, those who have not attended school for years, kindergartens because of lack of clothing when children beg for money or make an unwanted living. An example of the inefficient work of the State, the local authorities, is only one of the areas of Hersonschina - Calancechi. About 5,000 children are being trained in schools in the district, with the cost of improving their health for 520 students in preschool health camps, 105 in the Ryduga District Health Camp. Most of the children whose parents have lost their jobs after bankruptcy and 80-90 percent of them have been unable to rest and recover, both in preschool and other camps because of the financial inability of parents, but the state does not provide funding for such measures. In order to reach an increasing number of children, I consider it necessary to provide for partial financing of the work of rest camps through the State Social Insurance Fund. The cost of travel should be at least 75 percent. There are 297 health resorts in the Herson region. Yet only 10 percent of them are registered at the location of the institution. The regulation of the registration of such establishments will allow for the filling of an income portion of the local budgets by using them to develop a ruined social sphere and a resort area. The issue of payment of land taxes by child health institutions is a matter of interest and monthly concern. This tax will increase travel costs by an average of 40 percent. This will certainly affect the number of services provided to children. At the state level, aid is provided to transport children by rail to children's, health and health institutions. During the summer season, however, motor vehicles are used to transport children. Travel benefits, which do not include State rest and child health programs for the period up to 2008, have been set up to establish fixed children’s health facilities, which will provide a year-long recovery and treatment for children of socially vulnerable populations. The task would be to rebuild health facilities. It is appropriate to anticipate the cost of capital investments. In this regard, it is requested that the proposals from the representative bodies and the implementing Herson area be supported with regard to the granting of State importance to the Scandinavian medical zone within the Skadavian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u237	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare Katusheva. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u238	Igor Shurma faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[United]] The MP believes that the issue of child recovery should become one of the priorities of public policy. This is the only possible and only correct principle of activity in this direction. We are in favour of the State Program for Child Health and Recreation. We need to get information on specific actions. So we're confused that some of the important moments in our view are actually project-oriented. That is, the situation of a child’s health care facility, the creation of a state center for recreation and the recovery of children. There is not enough government procurement for the health and rest of children of orphans, children deprived of parental care, children with disabilities affected by an accident at CHAES and so on. The data bank for such children has not been clarified. The concern is that there is not much time left until the start of the healing season. And taking into account the considerable amount of time lies that persist in the system of government from the adoption of the document to its implementation, it is not possible to delay making the right decisions. So the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is proposing that the points raised in the draft decision that we will take on the results of the Government Day be fixed in a mandatory manner with specific and real dates. [[united]] We also feel that the need for a separate law on child rest and recovery has long been ripe. All the national MPs are well aware of the situation that strikes at the beginning of the healing season. A great deal of requests for help, or please excuse me, to knock out a child’s trip. Each time, we need to be guided by the vast number of normative acts that regulate this issue. The law is simply necessary, and eventually authorities and people should have a document setting out state social standards for children’s rest and recovery. Without that, it is difficult to appreciate the work in that direction. Even today’s report marks the success of the health campaign last year. But on what basis should we draw such conclusions? Compared to what? The increase in the number of child recovery rates is, of course, a serious job in this direction. But there's also a reason to compare the quality of the indicators. I think we should give the government an appropriate commission for this matter. A separate article of the law should regulate the treatment and rest of homeless children as well as children who are raised in orphanages. These children deserve the attention of the State. To define the appropriate body that would work in this direction, let it be the centres of socio-psychological rehabilitation of minors, or any other institution. Last year, some 30,000 of these children were cured, according to information. But it's clear to everyone that it's a drop in the sea. Dear colleagues, there will be no organized meaningful rest for children in the summer; in the fall we will have the results of their thoughtless street stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u239	Zara Katusheva, Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u240	Commie faction, Katuseva, Autonomous Republic of Crimea. There is no need to convince those present that the Crimea is a unique corner where there are all the necessary ingredients for the full recovery of our children. These are the most beautiful climates, air, water, picturesque landscapes. There is also a fine body of the Republican Committee on Family and Youth, headed by Zvetva Tatyana Nikolaevna, a person responsible for the heart-ache for the work she is entrusted with. In analysing the enormous work done by the Family and Youth Committee under the leadership of Duženko Valentina Ivanovna, I wanted to thank them very much on behalf of the Crimeans. But I want to get these numbers. Of the 176,000 children in the region, 34,000 526 were able to travel. This must be taken into account, in addressing the recovery problems, in dealing with the issue of child health in 2004, which undoubtedly requires support at the State level. It is necessary to address the existing problem of dispersal of funds for the recovery of children by various agencies and organizations; to ensure transparency of tender procedures in the distribution of public funds for the recovery of children; to involve representatives of trade unions and other public organizations; and to introduce costs for the recovery of children in a separate line of both the State and local budgets. The legislative and regulatory framework needed to be improved, the need to develop a child-recovery law, a model provision on child health facilities needed to be addressed without delay, the issue of the loss of children's travel, the reduction of local taxes, land taxes, licensing, certification, the receipt of individual pay permits. The lack of real benefits for health facilities in residential, health and commercial services is a matter of concern. Regrettably, there is also a problem such as closure, re-profiling, the elimination of child health facilities. We need to make the most of the rich base we have in Crimea. There is no doubt that the allocation of funds to provide for the rehabilitation of children should be round-the-clock. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u241	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u242	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, colleagues, respectable Valentina Ivanovna! I don't think I'd be wrong to say that the only thing we have left in Ukraine is our children. Children who need to pay great attention, daily attention, so that there is a prospect in our country. So it's very good that we hear in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine every year, we summarize the recovery of children last year, and we schedule plans or actions for the government for the next year, the next year. But I don't think this is a complete picture of what happened to our children. And that's why maybe the government's follow-up days are more widespread to ask questions, really how our children eat in preschool children's schools, how they eat in schools today. And here I was literally last Saturday at my 40th birthday school, graduation of 40 years of eight-year-old school, and I faced a problem like 40 years ago that I started in school because kids from college were given a glass of milk and a bun, unfortunately, today and it's not in our schools. But what I'm saying is that in my district of Tokmak, the district of Zaporozhye, I've already told Valentina Ivanovna thank you so much for helping and for our committee of the Supreme Council, which is contributing to this. Nevertheless, there is a need to pay more attention to financing these preschools, more faithful health facilities, and then it is clear that both parents and children in Ukraine will feel. I would say that in general we have to agree, but the Ministry understands in front of Valentina Ivanovna that in order for the 2004 healing season to go through more specifically, a number of documents must be more productively accepted. And that's why we would like our fellow MPs to want us to adopt as soon as possible a package of documents offered by the Ministry, this is a provision for a review of oncodition health facilities, to develop a draft position on a child health facility, to accept, to prepare and to adopt a state center to facilitate the rest and recovery of children. And one more point, I'd like to pay attention, Valentina Ivanovna, is that we, the deputies and the government, have to work together for the next fiscal year to take into account that the situation in the agro-industrial complex is too complex. So I did not in vain set the example of Vladimir Mikhailovich, that in order to save the situation in the country, both the socio-cultural sphere and the health facilities, we really need to declare 2005 an agro-industry complex and put at least the minimum necessary costs in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-10-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, 2:00 p.m. I'm sorry, there are 14 other national deputies who have not been able to speak. Because we have a broadcast, and it stops. There's nothing I can do, dear fellows. There's the Rules. Dear colleagues, I say again that I am sorry, 14 national deputies who have not been able to speak. Well, there's no way. Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. Instead of twenty - thirty - five, as you requested. We've got 20 minutes of discussion under the Government Day Regulations. Dear colleagues, let's remember, as chairman, I should sum it up. To preserve it, we have to maintain a regular procedure. Let's think about when we're discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the government day drafts of government day decisions and the government day that we're having debates here, how convincingly we're motivating the need for government day! And we're going to see how we're getting all the heat off when we're finally getting to the bottom of this. I think you will support me in that the day of government should be an event on any issue. This should be a common discussion of the problems that have arisen in society. We have a discussion today, and before all the discussions, it's a matter of passage, it's a matter of great regret, it's such an impression. In the meantime, I think it's an expression, a face that is the moral face of the country, the state and the power. What we saw and what we discussed today, what might have excited us. Besides the fact that our fellow national MP urged us very fervently, he left. What, then, has caused us to be awakened by respectable colleagues? Almost nothing. Obviously, we have to put the matter in place so that we have a campaign for the recovery of children -- to have a system of work. We don't have a system of work. Well, this year we, Valentino Ivanovna, will increase the number of children who have been cured by 10 percent of heroic efforts: 34 percent will become 44. What about the rest of the kids? And generally, those who need it very badly tend to be those who live in polluted areas, usually those who live in rural areas and, in addition to hard work, they don't know or know that there are such camps, usually. And I don't think Valentina Ivanovna is able to answer all our letters, appeals and appeals to heal the children. Yes, Valentina Ivanovna helps us when we approach because we are national deputies. But we don't have a system of work. Obviously, we need to move away from the average, especially in this respect, that on average we have 1 in 3 children cured. On the average, then, the poorest levels are generally not healed. We should probably combine health statistics with statistics on children's health -- and we will see that all of our actions are inadequate to worsen children's health as a result, including the environmental processes that are taking place in Ukraine. And we're obviously going to have to predict in the draft the actual, action measures, not afraid of offending someone, so that the summer vacations, the other summer vacations -- and we didn't get information, like turning from the fronts, about how many children got dysentery, on other diseases, how many camps were closed. We need respectable colleagues to review the practice of spending the days of the government and to draw attention both to the government and to the public and to all of Ukraine to the problems that we are planning to discuss. I would ask, along with the Ministry, the Committee and with the participation of all the national deputies, to finalize the draft decision to reflect the situation of the problem and, above all, the tasks that we need to solve. What the 14 other national deputies failed to do tells us is that we understand this problem, it burns, it worries. We need our concern to materialize in the relevant documents especially when we adopt the budget for the following year. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. We will make decisions after further processing and taking into account the suggestions that have just been made. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We're working on committees, factions and groups this week. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on February 17th. Thanks for the job.
