ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:00]] There are 419 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues, today I'd like you to welcome our colleague Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi to your birthday. Let's just hope that he does more of his birthdays than he did yesterday than he did yesterday. Please listen to the announcement. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine on 25 March 2004 that the People's Deputy Shurma Igor Mihajlovich has also been elected as the Authorized Representative of this faction. [[united]] In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for applications, messages and suggestions. And in the meantime, I'm going to be announcing parliamentary questions. Please make sure that the national MPs are prepared. Members of parliament were asked by the following national deputies and made such a point. Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on marking at the inter-State level of 60 years the deportation of Ukrainians from their ethnic lands in Poland. [[RED, HOT, HEAD, AND OTHERS. Total 15 deputies]] I would like to stress the proposal to support the request. [[10:04:37]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Anatolia Seminoga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the assistance of residents of the village of the Netherlands Smilan region of the Cherkas region in connection with the cessation of the operation of the mini-cauldron. Omelana PARUBKA and Alexander TKACZENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the baseless increase in fuel and oil prices during the spring-field work period in 2004. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper material and financial provision of agricultural producers in the Herson region during the 2004 Spring Company. Alexander MOROZOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On the implementation of measures to ensure the development of the National Shareholder Insurance Company “Oranta” since 4 February 2004. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine as a result of the predatory destruction of the publishing business, bringing the enterprises of the State Shareholder Company “Ukrainian Publishing and Polygraph Association” to permanent financial incapacity and bankruptcy, the massive rental of fixed assets of the specified enterprises, violating the requirements of the law and the purposeless use of the funds received, the theft of state property in a particularly large amount, the non-payment of salaries to employees by removing violations of the law and by bringing those responsible to justice. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Inter-State Deportation of Ukrainians from their ethnic lands in Poland. [[RED, HOT, HEAD, AND OTHERS. Total 15 deputies]] Jaroslav SUCHI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the violation of the Decree of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine of 18 February 2004 by the State Company “Gaz Ukraine” and the National Shareholder Company “Naftogaz Ukraine”. Jurya Shirka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the Government's excessive consumption of gas to the population during the period of absence of hot water supply. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the efficiency of the management of the open-air stock company “Odessa Airlines”. Hennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the local authorities' proposals for the Poltava region to list objects to grant subsidies for the implementation of accident biases and the prevention of technological catastrophes in housing and utilities. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for damages for the water supply of the town of Grebinka Poltava. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of the treatment of cancer patients in the Volin region. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provocative conduct of Ambassador Victor Blackomirdin of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the closure of the Institute of Postgraduate Education for Workers of the Home Service in connection with the transfer of the Institute to another owner [[TURKEYS, WALLEN, Clouds, and others. Total 6 deputies]] GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects in the Kitzman electoral district No.203. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the financial and legal activities of authorities in the local self-government of the Hersonian region. John STANDS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purposeful destruction of places related to the life and work of Taras Shevchenk. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the release of the twenty-four-tone meeting of Ukrainian folk tales by Mikli Zinczuk. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the delay of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in fulfilling the requirements of article 58 of the Ukrainian Act on the 2004 State Budget for Ukraine on Housing and Utilities. [[RED, ALEXIUM, WIDE]] Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the support of the proposals of the Provincial Regional Administration for the reconstruction of the city of Kirovgrad. Victor DIVORCE to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget for the construction of a water decontamination station in the village of the city-type Lubar of the Žitomir region. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the debt of payments from the state budget to the company of the Open Shareholders Association ATAS Borispol for the free transport of the premium categories of passengers. Vladimir BONDAR to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the purchase of services related to the provision of public outsourcing, service and debt repayment. Andria POLIETA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, on the health threat to young people as a result of the uncontrolled distribution of tramadol drugs, tramalgins and the use of drugs. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ivan KYRILENKA, for the non-application of measures to ensure the legitimate rights of owners to freely manage land and property markets in the village of Antonovka in the region of Chernigiv. John the Rabbit to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko, on the violation of the rights of landowners and property in the village of John's Village of the Globin District of Poltavian Region. Paul PALCHANA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, on the illegal commercialization of the Poltava City Chess Club and the denial of the right of chess-lovers to visit it. Andrija POLIETA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitr Tobacco on the inadmissibility of trying to rename the city of Kirovgrad, which exacerbates the already extremely tense situation in the city. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of the production and commercial company “NIL” to the village of Fursa Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district with rations for renting land. PAUL QUICHANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in handling a criminal case that was violated because of the purposeless use of the budget by the Kobeljak District Council of the Poltavian Region. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the deliberate obstruction of the legitimate professional activities of journalists of the film group “5 channel” on 23 March 2004 in Mukacheva. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights to determine the existence of human rights violations and the rules of law by officials of internal affairs, the Prosecutor’s Office and the courts concerning Hadaf’s citizen and members of his family. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the award of a legal assessment of the actions of the judge of the Ravenna Court of Appeal, Shimkova S.S. and the officials of the Procurator's Office in the province of Ravenna. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of violated constitutional rights and the prevention of unlawful privatization of state property. SERGEANT JUSTICE to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts presented in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, the legality of the tender and the further privatization of the Open Shareholder Association “LINOS” Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for illegal actions regarding the transformation of property rights in the property of the Tysminic Regional Consumer Society. Stéphane HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Head of Ternopil’s District Administration, on the situation surrounding the illegal removal of a hospital in a village of the town of Tousté Zalestické district of Ternopil. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on methods of intimidation, blackmail and threats by the directors of the “Dniprovska Metallurgical Combine of the Name of Drzejinsky” and “Dniprovagonmash” in the process of restructuring debts for municipal services are subordinated to them. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the examination of the facts of service negligence, abuse of duty, corruption by individuals of the Drobic Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the region of Lviv, Drogbytsky Interstate Prosecutor's Office during the verification of reports of the preparation of the murder, which led to the killing of Bagria I.I., the improper investigation of the case and the prosecution of those responsible. Mr Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Zacarpathian Regional Public Administration on the cessation of artificial blocking of the work of the Broadcasting Company “Mukacheve” “M-Studio”. Julius TIMOSHENKO and Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Ternopil District Administration, Head of the Ternopil District Council, the Ternopil City Head, on the situation surrounding the eviction of residents of the open stock company “Ternopil Kombain Plant”. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal offence of President Viktor Medvedczuk's Head of Administration of Ukraine for illegal removal to the offshore area to the British Virgin Islands of the funds of 21st-century citizens and other illegal transactions totalling about $1 billion. [[RED, SOVOLEV, MALINOVIAN, AND OTHERS. Total 11 deputies]] BORISA TO THE U.S. Secretary of Defense regarding the situation in connection with the liquidation of the Lutsky garrison military hospital. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the situation with regard to the resolution of the school bus program, which took place on the territory of the rural councils of the Maloviski district of Kirovograd. YEUGENA YULTIA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the situation that took place at the Boguslav Humanitarian College of the name Nechuy-Levitsky in connection with his being led by a person guilty of a criminal offence. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the renewal of work in the internal affairs of John Odrin. Hennady RUDENKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer of the premises of the Mirgorod military trade to municipal property to secure the activities of the Ukrainian Pension Fund Administration in the city of Mirgorod. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the reason of the obstacle to professional activity by active, national-conscious teachers in the Eastern Language School No. 1 of Kiev and the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal by the administrations of education and science of different levels. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the lack of funding for State medical programs in the priority direction for the Berezni district of the Plain region. PETER ALIENICA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of hydrolysate to children with phenylketonuria, as ordered by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on January 13, 2001. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the establishment of a disability group called Ludmila Baibuli, who lives in the territory of enhanced radioactivity control in the Manevic region of Volinsk. Victor YUSCHENKA to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the annulment of the Order of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the reorganization of the institution of the Republican Children's Health Centre “Lastivka”. Victor KING to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, on the decision of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on housing for military personnel. Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Unjustified Excess Tariffs for Citizens in Rail Transport. Leonida Vernigor to the Prosecutor of the Crimea Region of Lugansk, Head of the State Tax Administration in the Luhansk Region, Head of the Kremin Regional Public Administration of the Lugansk Region, Director of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime, Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lugansk Region, for the enforcement of the legality of part of the payment of taxes on the receipt and use of approximately 2 million dollars allocated to the creation of workplaces for free miners. Ms. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the request of the session of the Johno-Frankow District Council for the preservation of the structure of the local and district courts in the cities of Kaluchi, Cologne of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Dear colleagues, once again I ask and appeal to you. Do not force the Chief to break the Rules. Don't ask him any MPs. And they need to be sent through the Secretariat for preparation and processing. You're in the last minute, sorry, you're picking up and reading. I'm going to do it today, but let's figure out in the future, there are rules, there are situations. And if others do, why should we make an exception for a certain part?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u2	We worked until nightfall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u3	Yuri Anatolyovich, don't shout, because none of that screaming will happen. Yuri Anatolyovich, or I'll read the questions you've given me, or I'll put them off now, if you'll mind, so don't bother. Karmazin's request to the President of Ukraine in an orderly fashion and not to allow for the loss of the unique potential of the Bioprom-Odessa plant of the Ukremedprom State Stock Company, which will cause significant damage to the nation's health and national security. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:20:54]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The MP's request. Karmazin, Jótec of the President of Ukraine on the establishment of a government commission to verify the destruction of the sanatorium and resort complex on the Black Sea coast and to immediately halt the illegal removal of land for recreational purposes, to transfer them to the free use of individual officials and citizens who have caused damage to the state for hundreds of millions of United States dollars. Please determine your support. [[10:21:48]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The MP's request to the National Deputies Group - Neciporuk, Karmazin, Sokirko, Yavorowski, Razwadovski President of Ukraine for the examination of the fact that the budget funds have been disbursed in a particularly large way by the Nizhin city chief alien, by abuse of his service position in association with his relatives. Unwarranted non-payment to employees of the Heat Company of the Nijintecommunergo network as a result of the purposeless use of the funds earmarked for such payments, the use of these budget funds in the face of their intended purpose and actions that have led to the persistent financial inability of the Nijintecommunergo company to do material damage to the state. Taking steps to draw those responsible to the legally established responsibility Please determine whether to support this request to the President. [[10:23:02]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Parliamentary request from the People's Deputies Group - Karmazin, Jovtjak to the President of Ukraine for the criminalization of officials of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for an illegal attempt to sell the state-owned portion of the statutory fund in the SP “Poltavian Gasonaft Company”. Please determine whether to support the request. [[10:23:48]] For-95 The decision is not taken. The MP's request, but once again, I point out that we have no more than two parliamentary questions from a national MP than we have the right to consider at one meeting. This is the fifth or sixth national deputy, Carmazin. To the President on the use of urgent measures and the return to the State of the territory of the National Institute for the Culture of the National Film Studio, Alexander Duzhenko. Please identify yourself with the support of queries. [[10:24:33]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Yuri Anatolyevich, you always pay attention when the Chairman violates the Rules. What am I supposed to do when you've asked a dozen MPs and only two of them have to be considered? Please tell me. Karmazin's request to the President of Ukraine for urgent measures to prevent the threat of Ukrainian national security due to the terrible condition of AIDS and HIV(?) infection. To check the organization of disease control in Odessa and Odessa, which have the highest disease rates. Please make up your mind. [[10:25:34]] For-65 Not supported. Karmazin's request to the President of Ukraine to take action to end violations by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the constitutional rights of citizens in retirement according to the current legislation of Ukraine. Please determine your support. [[10:26:05]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Karmazin's request to the President of Ukraine to take urgent action to ensure the recording of the implementation of the Ukrainian National Hymn and the transmission of records to the authorities of the Ukrainian State. Please determine whether to support the request. [[10:26:38]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Karmazin's MP's request to the President of Ukraine to stop the mass robbery of the people of Ukraine by unlawfully charging and taxing the added cost of rent, repair and construction work for the use of houses or apartments as a place of permanent residence of citizens. Please make up your mind. [[10:27:15]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Karmazin's request to the President of Ukraine to take urgent action to ensure Ukraine's national interests in meeting the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on international conventions and agreements on the prevention and response to emergency situations, on the protection of people's lives on the water, on the search for rescue at sea, on the elimination of oil crops and on the protection of the Black Sea and the Asian Seas, and so on. Please make up your mind. [[10:28:06]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Karmazin's parliamentary request and a group of national deputies to the President of Ukraine for the annulment of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 9 December 2003 No. 1887, some issues relating to the purchase of goods and services by the State and Mobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, such as those contrary to the requirements of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine. Please make up your mind. [[10:28:47]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Parliamentary request from the Panasovski People's Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine - Azar's issue of short-term loans. So with the MP's questions we've completed, please show us again the list of those who signed up for the 30 minutes we'll withdraw from the Matthews procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, first of all, I, Adam Ivanovich, would like to ask you once again not to violate the Rules on Parliamentary Requests. The requirements of the Rules for all national deputies are the same. And don't help any of the national MPs lead this procedure to complete absurdity. The other one. In view of yesterday's approximately 23.30 vote on the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, I would like to point out that once again there has been a malfunction in the work of the Council system. As head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have been approached by more than ten national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u5	Please continue. I'm asking you to put yourself in. Regulation. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u6	with statements that their ballots did not work. I think we've all come to realize that somewhere in this "Council" system, there's some sort of entourage that's responsible for doing everything in a responsible vote to make the system not work. So, Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to instruct the head of the Supreme Council's apparatus to conduct with the involvement of the developers of this system, the management of the Institute of Mathematical Machines of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine to investigate and resolve the issue of strengthening the management's personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, indeed, there were such incidents during the vote yesterday. Perhaps we worked hard with you. You know, not only can we stand it, but as you can see, technology doesn't always last. So I gave a similar commission yesterday, and today, on the basis of what the Chief of the Regulatory Committee said, the Authority's mandate is this, the question will be examined. I'm sorry, there are two more questions here, again, about what we want wrong. National Deputy Terrence to the President of Ukraine on the need to combine the issue of the legalization of income with the return of savings to Ukrainian citizens. I'd like to make a decision on the support of the President's request. [[10:32:54]] For-99 Not supported. Again, the MP's request to the President of Ukraine for the preservation of the historic cultural sites of Kiev. Please identify yourself as to whether or not the request is supported. [[10:33:21]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Request not supported. Dear colleagues, let's consult. Seven of the national deputies addressed me as Head of Staff in connection with their dissatisfaction with the answer to their requests. I understand it's a regular rule, but again, we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements of dissatisfaction with Friday's requests. We've already used 29 minutes with you, and none of you have spoken yet. I'm before, or let's change the rules of the Rules, or let's still hold back, especially those who try for dozens of queries in one day. So let's, let's find this compromise. I'll give two minutes to those national MPs who are dissatisfied with the answer to the questions, and then we'll see what we can do. Yes, please, dissatisfied with the response to the request for two minutes of Lebedowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u8	Mr. Chairman, I am very grateful for the opportunity to make an answer to the question, and the request was a group of national MPs regarding the removal of "For Service Use" from the Ukraine-NATO action plan. We have received a response from the President that he supports the importance of informing the citizens of Ukraine of the contents of the plan of action of Ukraine-NATO and that the issue of the removal of griffin will be implemented when formal agreement with NATO is completed. But because perhaps not all authorities and executive authorities in Ukraine know that such a graph has been withdrawn and that the TSK's request to monitor the implementation of parliamentary hearings on the relationship and cooperation of Ukraine-NATO and the plan of action of Ukraine-NATO for 2003 does not respond to the Commission's request, which we have made with you. In particular, the Commission received no response from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Mine Economics and European Integration, the Ukrainian National Bank. Nor does the Commission have information on the activities of the Ukrainian CFC in the implementation of the action plan. This plan also includes the drafting of many bills and, in particular, the bill on election of Ukrainian national deputies, which we discussed yesterday in this session room. In particular, I myself have made many suggestions, amendments to this bill, which have been designed to improve the democratic nature of this document and to ensure the principle of equality of legislators. Regrettably, even though the chairman of the TSC, Alexander Moroz, strongly insisted on supporting these proposals, they were not supported by the session hall and the bill was voted on. That's why I have to ask the President of Ukraine to veto this bill in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u9	Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u10	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The reason for my dissatisfaction is the response of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Vladimirovich Tobacco, to my appeal regarding the recalculation of the pension to the teacher who lives in the city of Ivano-Frankivsky-Basy Mary Ivanovni. I am moved by the ministry, but I am dissatisfied. And the petitioner is dissatisfied, because instead of recalculating the petitioner's pension, which is why I made the request, a one-month allowance was just paid - 100 dollars. Say, ladies and gentlemen, we're 450, if each of us goes for one or two pensioners and gets that pensioner paid once a hundred dollars. That way we can be happy with you, as many as 2,000 pensioners. But we have over 10 million pensioners in Ukraine. And more than 90 percent of pensioners are extremely dissatisfied and more loyal to such calculations, and such a pension reform. So once again, I'm asking you to count the pension of a veteran of labor and war, the difference of national education -- the Bashey of Mary of John. I'm asking you to recalculate the pension for all of our pensioners, because there are 8 billion dollars hidden in Ukraine's budget today, but there's no increase in salary to 237 bracelets, and we're waiting for elections to throw people a bone. There is no increase in the minimum pension, and Victor Yushchenka’s project to 79 grevens 49 is not expected in September or October to throw the voters a bone. The honourable national MPs do not think about it; they have been distracted by it even yesterday’s vote of the Elections Act, where public organizations, society are separated from the election process, from the observation and control of their defenders. I express my resolve.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u11	Thank you. Lila Stepanovna wanted to say that she strongly protested about this, please, Carmazin, to prepare the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u12	The Party of Fatherland Defenders, the Solidarity of Victor Yushchenka's constituency "Our Ukraine", the honourable national MPs! By a request of February 18, I addressed the address of the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council and the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on December 9, 2003, of Decree No. 1887. Some issues include the purchase of goods, jobs and services by the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which grossly violates the requirements of the Constitution and applicable legislation. The content of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this regulation is not intended to be understood and defined in secret, I stress to the people of Ukraine, in secret, in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Paragraph 3 states that paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Government’s Decree of August 14, 1998 have become invalid. I note that the secret paragraphs of the Government's December 9 decree set out an uncontrolled order for the use of state funds and define a different than the law order for the selection of executives and producers. Thus, the Order of the Government is in direct contravention of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine. It violates the rights and interests protected by law of all, without exception, of the owners, except for the unknown subjects mentioned in secret paragraphs 1 and 2 of this decree. These are the sources of corruption, distinguished national MPs! I got an answer from the government in such a way that "everything is a beautiful Marquis!" At the signature of Deputy Prime Minister Azarov. I am addressing Prime Minister Yanukovic, I am addressing the President. Please look at you baptized parents of this corruption, hiding from the people where you spend your government money, breaking the law we passed. And Adam Ivanovich, I want to say, here yesterday, the apparatus worked for the majority until 12 o'clock in the night, they have to be paid everything according to the requirements of the Labour Code on a double scale. All the Supreme's apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u13	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliovich, for taking good care of the apparatus, I am pleased to hear good words about the work of the apparatus. Please, the cloud. Get ready, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u14	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. I have repeatedly appealed to various public authorities, particularly the Ministry, as well as the Attorney-General's Office for Human Rights, Mrs. Karpachev, on the grounds that for five years he had not been the Rector of the Odessa National Law Academy, Sergey Kiwalov, illegally signed his diplomas to the graduates of this higher educational institution. There are some problems now, at least for the graduates. There have been calls to court for illegal signatures of diplomas. Unfortunately, no government body and, in particular, the Ministry of Education has already given me a few notes, but there is essentially no answer. The Attorney General’s Office and, in particular, the well - known mafia and corruption fighter, Olga Kolyko, have also removed the issue. Mrs. Carpachov is not responding. I want to say that in addition, Sergey Kiwalov has been the head of the High Council of Justice for three years illegally, and now, as a member of the Central Electoral Commission, he is illegally acting as a member of the High Council of Justice, and you understand the consequences that this can have, especially when such a person holds an extremely strategically important position as the head of the Central Electoral Commission and the person who has shown himself to be completely unsubject to the spirit of the law. Which could go to any political order. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u15	Yes, Roman Tuck. Prepare Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u16	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is already a lot of talk in this room about land reform, and if I, if at least a fraction of all that was said, would be implemented, believe me, in this village it would really be better to live. I'm not going to talk about land reform right now, about the situation. I just want to step in one direction with regard to land reform. It's a matter of replacing certificates for government acts. The significance of this issue is also reflected in the fact that last April the Supreme Council held the Government’s Day, and in May an appropriate decision of the Supreme Council was adopted. Thus, by this Supreme Council decree, it was proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers review the rates for services provided in the issuance of State acts. Today, only about 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens who are entitled to a replacement have taken advantage of their rights and switched certificates for state acts on February 1st, according to the Cabinet of Ministers. However, despite the fact that various sources of funding are involved by the executive authorities. The main problem remains their high cost. And it's not the last role in increasing the value of unwarrantedly high prices for input into the land cadastre database, the registration of state acts. This type of service was introduced by the State Commission in 2003 and, according to many experts, became the financial barrier that halted the issuance of State acts. You know, there's a President's decree that regulates the top plane-- 85 bucks. But when a government registration is made, the prices go up to 200, up to 300 dollars. In May, he created the National Land Cadastre Center and gave him the right to set his own prices. Today, these prices are about 200 or 300 dollars and they're stopping the substitute for the issuance of state acts. I sent two questions to Prime Minister Janukovic, but unfortunately, I did not get a specific, effective response. That's why I'm asking that this order of the State Commission be lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u17	Please, Eugene Kirilchuk. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u18	Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters! We have a category of people in Ukraine who are completely socially vulnerable. This may not be such a numerical army, but people who were affected by nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk polygon. I have been approached for more than two years by a group of disabled persons who became disabled after they were there. I'm sending out a request from the Cabinet of Ministers. Leaves of almost all former and current vice-premiers, that's work, that's a working group that's working, that's going to be passed a law or amendments to the law soon. And this is what the government of Kinach has been writing for over a year, and for over a year, the government of Yanukovich has been providing such receipts. I think it's time for us in the Secretariat to make a group of people and a responsible person who would analyze these receipts or just unconscionable attitude towards the parliamentary requests of those officials who have to carry out their duties so that they don't even have to be reminded of the national MPs. In recent times, there has been such an answer in this regard from the Ministry of Defense that the group is already working there. I asked him and analyzed it to the head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u19	Yes, Taran-Terreen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u20	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, first conceptually. Responding to our parliamentary requests has long since become a formal letter without any effect. In this regard, our faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, suggests that we hold parliamentary hearings on questions of parliamentary appeal, reactions to these appeals. And we, the national MPs, if we respect ourselves, respect the higher legislature of our nation, must stand in this position that officials who make a formal reference to our petitions should bear all the responsibility under the current legislation -- this time. Now it's specific. The Russian press, particularly the Independent Gazette and other media, reported early this year that there was an agreement between the government of Ukraine and Russia. Ukraine’s introduction to the WTO World Trade Organization by 2010 with Russia at the same time. On February 6th of this year, I asked Prime Minister Yanukovich to confirm or reverse these reports. In response to my request from the Cabinet of Ministers, there is no specific answer: neither "yes", nor "no." Dear colleagues, and this answer only raises suspicion that such an agreement on the term of Ukraine's entry into the WTO does exist and that it is hidden from both the national MPs and the Ukrainian people. I would like to remind you that as soon as Ukraine joined the Council of Europe, the question was that Ukraine would join Russia. But as an independent state, we should by no means link our accession to a world organization depending on the position of another sovereign State. And I'd like to emphasize once again that we don't have to drive ourselves into a dead end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u21	The head of the Committee on Regulatory Procedure, Matthew. Prepare for Borschevsky's performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw attention once again to the requirements of part two of article 8.3. 3, which clearly states that the answer to the parliamentary request is announced by the Chiefs at the meeting of the Supreme Council if the MP insists. Once again, this parliamentary procedure is absurd. Notice, most of the national deputies who spoke did not even have specific references to the responses of those or other officials, a specific date, an answer as to what they were talking about. I'm asking Adam Ivanovich to follow the Rules clearly for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u23	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovitch, you're absolutely right, but in order to be clear about the requirements of the Rules, you had to give them five minutes to perform, and I'm only two, I've already saved a little bit. Dear colleagues, let's take another 15 minutes for the performances today, allow ourselves such luxury, please, Borschevsky, to prepare Grigorovitch. 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u24	Please give the word to Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u25	Please, Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u26	It's a great company! You know what's going on in Kosovo in Metohija, the usual thing, for Serbs, the war never ended in the first world of 4.5 million Serbs of all, 1,264,000, and in the second one million Yugoslavs died again, mostly Serbs. So in just two wars, almost a third of the nation was destroyed. Now, here's to the story of the question. Kosovo-Metohija is a cradle of Serbian statehood, the center of the spiritual and culturalistic existence of the nation, the heart of Serbia. The original residence is the center of the Serbian Orthodox Church. In Cosmet, some 1,300 monuments of Serbian culture, including more than 200 churches and monasteries, are protected by UNESCO. Who has started strife in Kosovo and is now destroying the last Serbs who have supplied weapons to terrorists who have killed Yugoslav police, Montenegrins, Serbs, and most of all their one-time peaceful Albanians. Whoever was constituting the militants in the so-called Kosovo Liberation Army is clearly a terrorist formation by all indications. Likewise, the peacekeepers of a well-known alliance who, under the protection of Albanians, supported terrorists by cluster bombs, missiles, and shells with weakened uranium in the morning to separate the ethnic wheel of cheese from material. And now, you see, they're spreading their hands and saying, "We didn't expect it," and they're making a gay look, they'd suddenly discover that it's a well-planned action. But they knew exactly what they were going for, because they were planning for themselves. By the way, as early as 1929, there were 61 percent of Serbs and Montenegrins in Kosovo-Metohija, and now they are not present, so who has expelled whom? If anyone thinks that this will end, he is deeply mistaken about Macedonia’s goal. Then who's in line? No one's going to take care of the Serbs, but such falsifications, such a lie that has been poured out on them for the past 15 years, have not yet been known to the world, so until late we have to appeal to the world's societies and united forces to stop this ethnic cleansing in Kosovo-Metohija, which is bordering on outright genocide. I think we should make the right statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u27	Thank you, Boris Illich. Grigorovich conveys the word of Hennady Josephovich Vudovenko, to prepare for the Bride.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! My name, as Head of the Committee, was the subject of a complaint against the decision of the court in the Obolonian region. It looks anecdotal, but it's sad at the same time. Three teenagers, one in 14, are under two years of age, as the court has determined, having a deceptive intent to attack foreign property for the purpose of prior arrangement and acting on the basis of the previous distribution of criminal roles, have acted as follows. So they demanded one bracelet from their peers. He says I don't have my bracelets, there's only 25 copies. Give me 25 copies. But if we find another penny in you, we'll beat you. But then a police patrol drove by, and as the court had determined, they released the victim and disappeared from the scene of the crime, and the kidnappers were ordered to their own judgment. Some time later, however, police officers were detained. This is about 25 copies, I repeat, and the Obolon Court ordered that 14 - year - olds be held in custody for study of the criminal case for 10 days. And the court order to continue to hold Melnik until 10 days. People, what's going on? Well, the roof's really gone. 25 copies are being held in prison, and today we have no place in prison for criminals of 250,000. Prisons are overcrowded, and we still want more. We started to form a new generation of criminals. So after that ten days, he's going to be able to get that much out of those who live there. How sad we are to have such worthless activities! And there's concern that we're doing in our country, the judicial system instead of punishing criminals, they're committing such a misdemeanor over children. On the right, I apologize, I should have given these boys a hard time, or, as the people say, I apologize, although it's also a literary word -- give a shit, they're running a criminal case and they're holding a child in the hospital for ten days. I ask you to view this as my official request. But most importantly, we as national deputies cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u29	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich. The word has been given to the People’s Deputy. Prepare Tanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies, guests! Meeting the voters of Jaskovski, Umanski, Miro. I was approached by war veterans, first - and second - group disabled persons, who were asked by the Supreme Council, Kabmin, to make a special decision, where they would be granted at a rate of at least 50 liters [50 L] of gasoline per month. Since these people are between 75 and 90 years of age, they are usually sick people who are constantly in need of access to doctors and pharmacies. The people are located in villages 30 to 40 km away. And you know that all the first-number drugs were illegally increased by 5 and 20 percent. And their meager pensions are unable to pay for neither drugs nor gasoline. And the bus connections you know are in the villages now, once a day, and they're overcrowded, where the disabled can't actually sit. That's why I'm asking the Supreme Council to solve this issue, and it's not going to hurt the state if it loses a penny. These people deserved it!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u31	Thank you, Omelyan Nikonovich. The word is given by the national deputy, Tanjuk. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u32	Les Tanjuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I want to welcome us all and the people of the theater tomorrow, tomorrow, March 27, International Theatre Day. 43 times the world’s public celebrates Theatre Day, and I would like to welcome all my colleagues. Our Parliament does sometimes turn into a theatre of military action, but the whole point is that Walter was right when he said that the nation was not meeting in Parliament, but the nation was meeting in the Party. I think that you and I are not just parliaments, but there are people who are sitting here today and loving theaters and wishing him good. I want to say that the theater of Ukraine today is large, diverse, it speaks different languages, it unites people, it also uses the traditions of our Corifa theater, and the traditions of Les Kurbass, and a colossal army of actors, directors, stage designers, directors, directors, actors, it's really an army of people who create a new life. And we would often do well not to be like ourselves, here in Parliament, really this theater of military action, but to make our lives a bright, powerful, powerful theater where our talents are displayed, above all. So I want to welcome everyone to the 43rd International Theatre Day, the 60th anniversary of our National Theatre Actors Association, and to assure those who listen to us that we will present to you, theater lovers, our parliamentary gift, we will adopt the Theatre Act. We set it up today, I think we're going to support it today as a sign of our holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Gunner. Does Tomenka have a word for it? Yeah? Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u34	Mikola Tomenko. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday Parliament was actively working on the Elections Act, but in principle the Ukrainian authorities were celebrating another event yesterday, an extremely serious, Ukrainian Security Service Day and traditionally awarded awards and talked about the great contribution of the Security Service. By the way, yesterday was a fantastic special op. Yesterday, security scouts in Liberia, where most of the Supreme Council sent our peacekeepers, managed to bring back four sex slaves. And today the press is writing and this is one of the most active and serious BSS specializations in the last period. So, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, Parliament has not succeeded in the courage and courage of listening in this session hall, to which the Security Service will not yet be involved in the detection of crimes, but in the monitoring of political opposition and political opponents of the political regime. You know that now the intelligence authorities and other structures have reached the local self-government authorities, today the city heads of Ukraine are making statements. The announcement by the city’s head Ternopol and others that their activities are being monitored is being heard by their phones. You know that the new equipment is now being purchased, that during the presidential election campaign it was more clear to record what was going on in the political camps of the various presidential candidates. An interesting position and the Minister of Defense, whom I consider to be an outstanding theory in the field of military construction, who, you know, did not serve in the army, but was in charge of the Ukrainian army. So he said that listening to politicians and watching German politicians and journalists is funny. Apparently, when he was working in the KGB, the instructions were a little different: not just to track and assemble in an operational way, but also to influence these people in some way. So the situation today with the law enforcement authorities is as follows. If the Supreme Council, and this is the only body, to my profound conviction, does not stop the involvement of law enforcement agencies in political work and that they will become an active participant in the presidential election campaign, these people will become hostages of the political struggle, and they will not stop the involvement of many professional people in the BSS and in other structures. So once again, I am calling on the National Deputies to let the Supreme Council consider this question: whether in a closed regime or in an open regime, but it is essential that we not only adopt the new Presidential Elections Act, which defines democratic norms, but rather that we force the Security Service, the Ministry of Defence, customs and all the structures that today are becoming exclusively political, labour-intensive to make those bodies that would protect people, not those that would monitor the political opposition in Ukraine day and night.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u35	Thank you, please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u36	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" concerning publishing and press support. The faction of "Our Ukraine" is drawing the attention of Parliament, the President and the government to the continuation of the systematic destruction of the Ukrainian bookstore. Thanks to Prime Minister Janukovic's proposal and Minister of Finance Azarov's thoughtlessly stamped majority of the 2004 budget, the Ukrainian book was taxed with 20 per cent added value. It is estimated that the books published in Ukraine account for only 5 to 8 percent of the total amount of literature available in our book market. The opposition to the preservation of even this shamefully small segment for an independent State is not supported, but contrary to the actions of the executive power. The most well-known ideologist for the destruction of the Ukrainian book is Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine-Mikola Azarov from the submission of which the President of Ukraine twice vetoed legislation already approved by Parliament aimed at liberating publishing and printing. Of the ridiculous tax status. We cannot help but resent the instigation of the destruction of the Ukrainian book not only by feeling no remorse but also by making accusations against the public, which strongly opposes the ancient vacchanal. Deputy Prime Minister Azarov, in a recent interview with the weekly Counteracts, agreed that the release of publications from absurd taxes is equivalent to the citation of pornography. Deputy Prime Minister laments that Kabin can always explain what he wants and charges that people who want to protect the Ukrainian book and the Ukrainian press are hired and brought to Parliament, to Kabmin. We argue that Ukraine does not need a government that cannot explain what it wants. Nor should people who do their utmost year after year to prevent their fellow countrymen from reading books in Ukrainian and, in general, books published in our country. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that the added value tax for the entire country's book and the country's press should be abolished. So our faction introduced the bill of deputies Victor Yashchenk and Sergey Teryochina, which will solve this problem if the government gives the majority of its support. Those who take targeted blows on the publishing industry should be held accountable for the adequate damage they have done to the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u37	Yes, respected colleagues have spoken, and problems have been identified. What? Sharov, please, Igor Fedorovich. Sharov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At the commission of the parliamentary faction, which is part of the parliamentary majority, I ask today to introduce a draft decree of 2211-p on how to deal with and consider in the second reading of the bill on the election of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the Local and Rural, Rural and Urban Heads. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put this matter to the vote and to use the Rules on Changes in the Ad hoc Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u39	Thank you, fellows of honor! Please log in with the procedure. Lighten up. Please, three minutes. Ivanov, behind Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I understand that someone is anxious to enact all these laws and to proceed immediately with the amendment of the Constitution. But today, as a representative of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, there have been many appeals to the inadvertent resolution of this matter. Because the Crimea has its Constitution, there are questions. Second. For example, I have not even seen the changes I have made. And they want me to propose to vote in favour of a bill today? Therefore, I am asking you convincingly not to support this decision and let us understand slowly and comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm just reminding you, it's not about us considering a bill today. It's about when we look at it. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u42	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I fully support it. For argument's sake, I'd like to pass on the word to Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u43	Please, Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to draw your attention to the fact that today is not a vote day. On Tuesday, a decree was passed that did not take effect because it was not published. The decree on the day-to-day ballot shall enter into force from the time of its publication. And in order to vote on Friday, Adam Ivanovich, observe the requirements of the Rules. A proper ruling is to be made, it has to be voted on, and then we can talk about the possibility of voting. Bills are under consideration today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u45	Please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u46	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I support the proposal made by Sharov Igor Fedorovich that this matter should indeed be considered and I ask Rodionov to pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u47	Please, Rodion's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u48	Rodionov, Communist faction. Respectable People's Deputies, Radio Listeners. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this issue has long come to light. In Ukraine, more than 230,000 people's deputies to local councils. And yesterday's debate, which was quite turbulent, said that it was necessary not only to deal with the members of the Supreme Council but also with local self-government. That's why this bill is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to Victor Pinzenic's performance. He was right to point out that, in fact, you and I have voted a decree that we should work as we once did every day. But unfortunately, it's still unpublished, and so on Friday, we're still working on the previous regime. But in order not to violate the Rules, I will put it to a vote. I'm going to put to the vote ad-hoc: who's in charge of today's review of registration number 2211-p and making a decision? Vote. [[11:15:53]] For 245 Decision taken. Be careful. Who, in order to include in the agenda today the draft regulation on the procedure for processing and consideration in the second reading of the bill on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils and the village, the city heads, the registration number 2211-p, please vote. [[11:16:33]] For 224 Dear colleagues, I explain. It is not that we are considering this decision today. I repeat, it's about that. Adam Ivanovich, you can't do that, you'll ruin it all day, don't do that. You've already done it by nightfall. Don't do this. You can't do that. Why are we breaking up the day?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, once again, no questions will be considered today in the second reading. That's not what this is about. I ask you to vote for inclusion in the agenda, there goes the vote. Vote. [[11:17:44]] For 231 Dear colleagues, questions are included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down, please take your jobs. Dear colleagues, the question is being considered. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, please report from the premises.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, we propose to take the order number 2211 as follows: With a view to ensuring constitutional reform in Ukraine and taking into account the decision of the temporary special commission, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of Ukraine's laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine since 22 March 2004, we ask that proposals for a bill on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local and rural councils, registration number 2211, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 March 2004, in its first reading, are submitted by the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, as an exception to the 14th hour of 26 March 2004. The other one. We propose that we assign a temporary special commission on March 29th this year to send the National Deputies to review and study the comparative tables of this bill. And the third. To decide whether to vote on this Law on April 6. Thus, the honourable colleagues, at this time in the temporary special committee, are about 400 amendments. In fact, all political forces had the opportunity to submit them. At this time, the eighth day of submission of comments ends, and I believe that the shortening for a few days of such proposals to a temporary special commission is entirely in the interest of the political forces and regulations. Thank you. Please accept this decision as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, we will resolve everything peacefully and everything will be just as the Supreme Council will. Dear colleagues, I'm underlining again. The language may not be a source of excitement for all the national MPs to hear about what is being proposed on behalf of the temporary special commission to confirm this rhythm of work on the bill. First. Listen to this question on April 6, 2004. I'm gonna say it again. Consider the bill on the election of deputies to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads on second reading to consider April 6. Not today, not tomorrow, but April 6. Here it is suggested that, as it were, proposals are made, there is a draft decree on the inadmissibility of this decree, a bill prepared by the National Deputies Zwarchim and Pinzenik. Who's it gonna be? Roman Mikhailovich, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This project, introduced by me and the People's Deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, is actually the position of the faction of "Our Ukraine" and there is a certain principle of the question which concerns our rights to all of you. So this is a stick that can actually have two ends that can be used against the initiators of the question itself. I now draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to the proposed consideration of the above-mentioned law, the Law on Local Elections of Deputies to Local Councils, is also proposed in this decree to shorten the deadline set for amendments to the bill. According to our faction, this is a gross violation not only of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations but also of the gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly article 89 of the Constitution, which enshrines the right to legislative initiative. Of course, it can be said that the right to legislative initiative is not denied because some amendments may still be made. But the norm of the Rules, such as 6.2.14, article 6.2. 14 The Rules determine the form of implementation of this right to legislative initiative. Since this article of the Rules defines the term for the exercise by the People's MP of their right to legislative initiative in order to amend any bill. At the time this bill was adopted in the first reading, this rule of law was in force, which determined how a national MP could exercise his right to legislative initiative. So there was a rule that defined what the 14-day term was for that. It is now proposed to shorten this term, and so it is proposed that we reversely shorten the term imposed on the Ukrainian National MP to exercise his right to legislative initiative. Therefore, we have made it very clear in the draft decree that this ruling currently under consideration does not correspond to article 89 of the Constitution, and that is why we refer to article 3.5, paragraph 2. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules as a basis for a decision on the non-admissibility of this decision. I'm asking you to give us such an inadmissibility order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u54	Thank you. The statement is absolutely reasoned. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion? Yes. Please, 15 minutes. Matvienkov. Get ready for Turkey. Matvienkov, you're on record from the rostrum. He's refusing. Please, Turkov. After him, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we see that the Presidential majority and those who support it go to hell and the Rules of the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian legislation and the Ukrainian Constitution. I am addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, you have re-initiated the scheme when you can violate the Rules despite the protests of the national MPs. A double vote without the approval of the Supreme Council is a gross violation of the Rules. This is the first time. It's different. Dear colleagues, we are now asked again to explain that this is an exclusively procedural issue. Well, you see, we've reduced the possibility of considering the law to the people's deputies. We've reduced the opportunity for the people's deputies to submit their objections or their proposals. Dear colleagues, you would have any dignity when you proposed this system along with the adoption of the law. When the law was passed, no such decision was taken. And today they are insolently reducing the capacity of the national MPs to work on the bill. The bill is very important, and the bill depends on the future of the entire state, which touches the district councils, city councils, and city councils. In fact, today we can destabilize all local councils, all local performances. I think that even the MPs from the Majority Districts have received a lot of letters, lots of references, as well as MPs about the fact that we can't speed this up. It's too dangerous, it's too responsible, but it's all being done to actually destroy and destabilize the situation in Ukraine. As far as procedural matters are concerned. I will not be surprised if the representatives of the majority raise the procedural question of changing the Constitution, not by 300 votes, but by 226 votes and say that this is simply a procedural question. We will break the Constitution according to our procedure, the majority procedure, the criminal procedure. Dear colleagues, stop, stop the abuse of common sense. I'm talking to MPs who want to look into the eyes of their constituents who want to do honest politics regardless of what factions they're in and what color they're in, or what color they're in, or what color they're not in. Look into the eyes of those who voted for you. Look into the eyes of those who will communicate with you tomorrow. And do not do as bears, pinchucks, and so on. Do as your dignity indicates, your conscience, when it is still in your possession. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u56	Please, Bespali, prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u57	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Driven horses are shot, aren't they? Yesterday, we chased ourselves physically, and we cornered Ukraine by making an entirely unthinkable decision under intense pressure. And today, isn't it strange that those who have absolutely always been against a proportional electoral system at all levels have been blocked for two years, today in two minutes they want to do it again. It's completely illogical and I think it's really a provocation against the Ukrainian people. In addition, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric was concerned about the unacceptableness. I wanted to pay particular attention, my fellow Members, to this law is totally unacceptable even on the ground that the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is the Law of Ukraine, is being brutally violated. According to this Constitution, the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is to be held under a separate law, and the faction of "Our Ukraine" has consistently and relentlessly insisted on this. In addition, by shortening the deadline for making proposals to the laws adopted in the first reading, we are effectively depriving not only the national MPs but also the representatives of the local councils, their associations, that their point of view should also be taken into account. We all had many such meetings, we know that there was a meeting of district council leaders from all over Ukraine, who also expressed her position and wanted their position to be at least reflected here and spoken, because it was impossible to do so, because you insist that, contrary to all common sense, and not just the Rules and Constitution, this is a discussion, a more faithful adoption of this law, not on the basis of legitimacy, but on the basis of legitimacy, then vote, really, on the night without any discussion and so on. In addition, I would like to turn to the blinded ghost of the constitutional reform of the Commodore-Kuchmew majority. So you think now by pressing the buttons, you're going to solve some private business or political issues there, and your CD is going to be sitting here forever. I think it's so anti-national. The position will just lead to Communists and other lefts losing authority in society, remaining authority at the local level, and simply disappearing from the political arena. So, I think, since Ukraine needs a left flank, think about what you are doing and vote against this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u58	Please, Bondarenko, prepare Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u59	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, if we ask ourselves whether we need to change legislation on elections, including local authorities, the answer will certainly be clear: we need to, and we need to change radically. But there are only two years left before the elections in 2006. How do you explain the haste with which after the "presidential drum" team that calls at the end of the hall every time, there's an execution team. And that's where the situation is going to go, and we're going to start looking for the main questions right now. It turns out that today the main issue is the Law on Elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea there by the local authorities. You, gentlemen, forget that the Minister of Esdek, who commands our troops today, is offering to throw $70,000 into the street. Officers. Maybe it's more important than that. Does the minister of Esdek, who commands the housing complex and the building complex, offer to throw citizens on the street who cannot pay for housing? Is the minister of Esdek, who was able to raise his pension for the citizens of Ukraine by six dollars, not able to report here and tell us why that happened? Is it possible that the minister of Esdek, who had obtained a paid education in Ukraine through the Constitutional Court, could not stand in this rostrum? Isn't that a question? Except for the question of why 205 dollars is given today's government, not 300 dollars, as we suggested. And how he lied to us here and claimed that he would get that Ukrainian citizens would have a salary of 300 and an extra dime. 239 bracelets, why isn't this interesting today's hall and the real ones, as they think the advocates of workers' interests? There's no employee's interests here. Someone wants to get paid faster for treason, for having a coup d'état here today. This haste in getting, and today it is the main driving force for making such decisions. I think there's no rush to push this law, more like the head of the electoral committee, I want to tell you that you're violating, gentlemen of your colleagues, another situation that is more faithful in Parliament is the parliamentary committee. This is the main tool for the professional development of a bill. Today this situation has gone wrong, today it's about a committee headed by Matthewnko, tomorrow it's about other committees, when, on a party basis, special committees will be formed from the Bank, which will replace the First Committee of the Supreme Council, and then the entire Supreme Council, no one will need it. So let's not make someone smarter here, let's make someone dumber. We need to work, indeed, on those problems that are common in society, not on the question of preserving our present authority in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u60	Please, Solomon, prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Yesterday and today we witnessed with you how we happened. such famous cinematographic events when in the famous film "Chapave" defaced and drunk capillaries went into attack and what happened to them? That's exactly what's gonna happen right now! And why this brigade, but it's an Al-Aqsa Martyr Brigade, and the brigade is five brigades of forgetful democracy, and it's like that, and it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Redwoodenko is insulted that he's been counted as a nuisance and he promises to pay me back. Thank you, I'll be proud of your retribution. So I want to say that this attack against the adoption of the bill of elections on a proportional system by our society, the people and our nation is an attempt to leave the totalitarian system that Ukraine has been refusing today and on the mountain of this totalitarian system to install its friend, its American son-in-law. Guys, you're not gonna make it. Red girl's warning me again, and I want to tell you guys again. You have repeatedly spoken of the Communicative majority today, and so forth, from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. You are the fifth column of a forgetful democracy, and you will never get out of your killings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u62	Please, National Deputy Gabrieluk. Gabrieluk, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich! Today we are considering a vital bill for the development not only of local self-government in our country, Ukraine, but also of the State as a whole. For years, there has been a system of governance in our areas, cities, villages, areas and some stability. And in my view, such a sudden transition to building and choosing local councils on a proportional basis, and this is the view of most leaders who have been working for more than 15 years in local self-government, which will be devastating. I'd suggest a softer transition. We are well and well aware of the community's concerns today, which are some of the powers vested in the local community today under the Local Self-Government Act, which deals with the well-being of a particular territory, especially a public organization, but not a political party. We know that the work of party organizations in this regard is not being carried out today, except for certain areas. And as a matter of today, a sudden transition, I would call it destabilizing the system of local self-government that is now in existence. It's an early adoption of such a bill. This view not only in local self-government throughout Ukraine, but also in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, colleagues from Crimea know what is happening today in Crimea. We know that there are many legal irregularities in the proposed bill. And I'd like to suggest it today in such a hurry not to consider it. Moreover, it is not clear why, if we have rules under the Rules that we have 14 days after first reading to submit our proposals, what is the rush of our Temporary Investigation Commission, which suggests that the time frame for the adoption of documents should be limited. Dear colleagues, we have not yet been able to obtain proposals from areas, proposals from local self-government. If we want to make a good bill, let's take it seriously, we'll seriously finish it. And it takes time to do that, or even insist on what they're trying to do today. I therefore believe that it should be accepted early or only with local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Katusheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, present today when voting on the issue of the Supreme Council ruling 2211, my card did not work for some reason. I'm asking you to give an order to check the system for why it's blocked. By the way, it was yesterday. And on the question of the draft under consideration. The Crimea has been discussing this draft for two years, and many proposals have been made. And in the Crimea, they await the adoption of this draft decree and when the law will come to fruition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, you and I will be the first to vote on a ruling that was presented here by the National MP Zvaric on the inadmissibility of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on order and processing of the second reading of the bill on the election of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, city heads. The decision to be inadmissible shall be put to the vote. Please make up your mind. [[11:43:34]] For 134 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please, I'll announce it. "Our Ukraine" is 99, "Regions", communists are zero, "Trubic Ukraine" is 2, "Social Democrats," "Socialists" is zero, "Timoshenko" is 18, "The People's Government" is 4, "Deminitiates and "Agrarian Party" is zero, "National Choice" is zero, and "NDP" is two national pro and non-fractional MPs are seven. I put to the vote on the basis and as a whole the draft regulation on how to deal with the second reading of the bill on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils and the rural, rural and urban heads. I would like to remind you, once again, that we will consider a bill on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads -- registration number 2211, second reading, at a meeting that will take place on April 6th of this year. One more. The same decree says that we should complete the proposals for this bill by 14 p.m. today, and work on it by 29 March. I lay the groundwork and, as a whole, a draft decision as a determination. Vote. [[11:45:13]] For 274 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 56, Communists - 59, "Urban Ukraine" and industrialists - 38, Social Democrats - 38, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The People" - 12, "Deminiciates" - 13, "The Agrarian Party - 15, "The People's Choice" - 12, NDP -7, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, all the votes have been completed for today. Here we go to the draft law on the Ukrainian State Property Fund, registration number 4580. Reported by the Head of the State Property Fund, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u67	Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Ukrainian law on the State Property Fund has been submitted, designed in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling. The adoption of a special law on the State Property Fund is based on the need for legislative regulation of its status with a view to ensuring that the privatization process is properly regulated and administered by state property, particularly corporate rights. Since 1992, during all privatization years, the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund have been regulated by a temporary provision on the State Property Fund, approved by the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 7.07. In 92 C.E., which has already lost its relevance to the rapid development of the modern privatization process and the expansion of this circle of issues that the fund and its regional offices are currently dealing with. It should also be noted that to date, the functions and powers of the State Property Fund are fragmentedly reflected in a large number of laws, which are more than 20. The most meaningful function and authorization of privatization bodies is noted in the laws on privatization of state property, on rent of state property, on transfer of property rights, and so on. At the same time, no legislative act defines the legal mechanisms for the effective administration of property rights and the composition of the necessary powers. Nor has the problem of providing the only approach to matters related to the accounting, assessment and implementation of state property, regardless of the legal mechanisms applied in the management of the property, been privatization, rent, bankruptcy, enforcement, and so forth. Recognizing that the absence of a law that marks the legal status, function and mandate of the State Privatisation Authority greatly complicates the work of the Fund and other bodies of privatization, depriving them of the ability to effectively influence certain aspects of the privatization process and their activities, starting repeatedly since 1997, the Fund has attempted to regulate its activities legislatively through the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft law on the State Property Fund. In the process of working on the bill on a long-term basis during its repeated submission to the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian President's Administration, the standards of the project have been perfectly worked out, taking into account all comments and suggestions. The only reason is that the State Property Fund is still operating without a special law. There is uncertainty and uncertainty about its subordination, accountability, and subordination. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 1998 by decision of 1 / 07 In 98, he declared unconstitutionally that the State Property Fund was subordinate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, I did not accept unconstitutional positions regarding his accountability and control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill, which is proposed for consideration, is prepared for the purpose of a comprehensive legislative solution and settlement of the above-mentioned issues. The project is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian laws, Ukrainian Presidential decrees, regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as with the proposals of the President of Ukraine and the proposals and observations made by the Ukrainian national deputies during the consideration of the project at the previous session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main purpose of the bill is to clearly define the legal principles of the activities of the State Property Fund, its status, functions, powers and order of implementation. The draft Law on the State Property Fund recognizes the fund as the central executive body with a special status, which corresponds to the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on changes in the structure of the central executive authorities. Taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the conclusions of the President of Ukraine, the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputies and the political reform that is currently taking place in Ukraine, the project provides the most compromise option for determining the legal status of the Fund. The Ukrainian State Property Fund is expected to be accountable and controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is, the importance of influence on the Fund is strongly placed in the hands of the Supreme Council from the government. The draft Law specifies and clearly defines the functions of the Fund. In the areas of State economic policy and government, privatization of state property, rent and concession of state property, administration of property rights. The most important provisions of the bill should also include the rules that determine the structure and management of the Fund, as well as the law and order of the Fund's interaction with the authorities of the State. The project also establishes a standard for a single system of state privatization bodies in Ukraine, set up by the Fund, regional offices, a property fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and representation. The bill defines the functions and responsibilities of the property fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional offices and representations of the fund. According to the bill, the foundation is headed by a head who, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is appointed for a term of five years and is dismissed from office as President of Ukraine. The head of the fund manages the fund, directs its activities according to the strategy and ideology of the current property reform course and is responsible for the performance of the tasks and functions entrusted to the fund. For the sake of an agreed solution to the issues referred to in the Fund's competence, discussion and decision-making of the most important activities, there are rules on the establishment of the Fund's College and its composition, which, apart from the heads and staff of the Fund, may include the national deputies of Ukraine, the heads of the central executive authorities, the head of the Property Fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the heads of the regional departments and its representatives, the composition of the College is approved by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine. In the process of carrying out the mandate fund and carrying out the functions, the bill provides for the rules for the interaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Foundation, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization issues, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive bodies. The adoption of the State Property Fund Act will create a perfect and fundamental legislative framework for defining legal mechanisms to function as a foundation for the protection of the State's property rights and the stock of the powers required to do so, and will contribute to the improvement of public policy in the area of property reform. Dear National Deputies! Please support Ukraine's bill on the Ukrainian State Property Fund, and I want to say that the Economic Policy Committee supported this bill, is a positive conclusion, and the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority on the purpose of adopting this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u68	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, are eager to ask questions, please sign in. Let me explain. Five minutes. Manchulenko. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u69	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Viktor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Michael Vasilovich! It's a pervasive law. It's been under review for many years, it's been accepted, the President's vetoing, and he's going back to Parliament. Whether this law will finally regulate a coalition, to which will be the controlling, accountable Fund of State Property of Ukraine, or whether again there will be no drag on the interests of the holding fund from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the executive power, or whether the relationship between the fund and the Ukrainian Parliament will be balanced so that it can work effectively and make decisions for the benefit of the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian State, not to order those or other financial and oligarchic groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u70	Thank you so much for asking. I reiterate that really, the biggest dispute was with this law, where it was about the important influence on the State Property Fund by the government and the parliament. And now there's a set of algorithms that have put a lot of pressure on Parliament. I would like to emphasize again. And the government has gone to this point to emphasize how we want to work constructively with Parliament. It is written that the State Property Fund will be accountable and accountable, I reiterate, accountable and controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. This algorithm is fully agreed with the government, supported by the President and, in my opinion, thus increasing the influence on Parliament, it fits into the philosophy and ideology of political reform itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u71	The cloud, followed by Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u72	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. Dear report, in paragraph 1 of the law on the Fund’s tasks, you recorded: the implementation of State policy on property rights, particularly in the area of privatization and renting of state property. But something in the first city does not address the issue and the effective use of it. Because if that's not the case, then what's the point of privatization? Or to steal, and if used effectively, really to make the point of privatization. Because it's not an end in itself and it can't be an end in itself. That's why it's either two, or it's for the benefit of society and the state, or it's for those who want to steal state property. Why didn't you include it in the first paragraph?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u73	Stepan Ilkovich, I agree with you twice and thank you for this proposal that privatization does not aim to sell state property to the owner to sell, but aims to improve the efficiency of the enterprise in the post-privatization period. And the fact that your suggestions are correct and can be considered in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u74	Please, Orzhachowski, and possibly Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u75	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Anatoly Orzhachov's faction of the Ukraine Hersonian Company. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I have a few questions for you. First. What is new about the bill’s activities in the state - owned regional funds? How will their work be updated, and is the responsibility for previous property management calculations increased? It will not be the same as the illegal transfer into the private hands of the Hersonian Combins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u76	Thank you. I want to say that the more rigid subordination of the regional offices, that is, the heads of the regional branches of the State Property Fund, will be solely the Head of the State Property Fund. Such agreement with local authorities was previously foreseen. But it's good that it's been agreed upon, and on the other hand, sometimes the regional influence of local administrations has been very great. And that strengthened, it's been said to have made the management of the regional department much worse. And he was faced with the dilemma of whether to put, as they say, the main goal of solving problems at regional level, or the main goal of setting public interests. And what's now more rigidly constructed is this vertical, where the head of the regional division is subordinated, released and assigned solely to the Head of the Fund, in my opinion, it will increase, increase and increase the efficiency of the Regional Branch Fund, and allow them to actually work in the fairway of public interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u77	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u78	84th constituency, Zaporozhye district. Mikhail Vasiljevic, first of all, allow me to thank you for your support for the local self-government body, especially the Polosov Mountain Council. Thank you very much from my constituents. At the same time, it seems to me that today the centre of gravity of your work will move more into the administration of the share of State ownership. At that time, there are different attitudes and opinions. Some believe that it makes sense to allocate this unit of work to another agency, to create a new one, or to transfer the State Reserve. Your attitude towards such proposals?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u79	Thank you so much for the interesting question. Your question may be asked: How does the management of the holding fund see the prospect of his office? And when we were preparing, really, another year, two, three, and privatization would go down. But the property relations in the state were, are and will be, this and the lease relationship, as you say correctly, is a matter of administration, as Stepan Ilkovich says, an effective government of state property. So the project's privatisation program, which was developed by the State Property Fund, now does not have a new option, provided for the transformation of the State Property Fund into the Ministry of Property in a few years. In fact, there were experts here, high-class professionals, and they went under the roof of the State Property Fund, they said, to work streams, to efficient lease management, and the functions were gradually reduced by privatization. And so the transformation of our intelligence, it's seen as being well managed by the foundation, and we see that some years after four of these transformations would have to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u80	Thank you. Sit down, Mikhail Vasilovich! Dear colleagues, I'd like your consent to work without interruption. Is there any objection? Thank you. Then please report to the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property, and Investment, Philip Philipovich Budzighan. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment on March 9, this year, reviewed the draft law, registration number 4580, on the State Property Fund, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, supported it and invited the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis. And what I'm saying is that the Chief Science Administration is in the same position. Because the law, the Special Law on the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, is essential because, as the rapporteur has already said, the Fund is still operating on the basis of the temporary position approved by the Cabinet Order since 7 July 1992, as well as the individual rules contained in the privatization laws. It is therefore necessary to establish a legal basis to determine the legal status of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, taking into account the current realities and prospects for the development of our state. You've had the opportunity to draft this bill, and I repeat that it consists of six chapters: "General Positions", "Organizations and Fund Management System", "Ensure the implementation of the Fund's powers", "The Fund's Interaction with the Government Authorities", "Ensure the activities of the Fund's organs." "The End of Positions." It contains only twenty articles. In particular, the second article, where the Fund’s specific tasks are clearly described, includes fourteen specific tasks. Article four, where the functions of the Foundation are described in directions. Fifteen in the field of state economic policy and government. Thirty-three in the area of privatization of state property. Six are in the area of rent and state property concessions. Twenty in the area of administration of property rights. The project also defines the structure of the Fund and its management. The fund and its management, the regional offices, the Crimea Property Fund and its representations are the only system. And that's what's important. Several times during many calls of the Supreme Council, including our convening, the bill on the holding fund was considered in the Supreme Council and even accepted. But each time the president of Ukraine returned him with his comments. In these projects, in fact, any of the fundamental issues was not one -- the question of accountability, subordination and control of the Fund. In this bill, I read literally the article in the first paragraph of the second paragraph: "Fund under the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." This formulation allows for an end to the debate between the Supreme Council, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. There are a number of important points, although it proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u82	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. I'd love to get Petrenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u83	The distinguished Filipp Filippovich, here you and the first rapporteur, spoke of the changing status of the Fund in terms of its accountability and the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council will have an impact on the activities of the Fund, and I am interested in a few different questions. How can they influence or protect their interests in the territory in which the privatization of an object will take place? Would you not find that sitting in Kiev does not always understand what a factory is and why a particular city needs it? And what will result if the owner changes there, because it very often leads to the fact that Soccult is not needed by anyone, it is given to local councils and local councils to the great regret of the current budgets. Please therefore, how the law protects the interests or helps to protect the interests of the Territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u84	I understand your question. Indeed, there is no direct law in the bill to protect the interests of the territory of a direct norm. Here is the issue of the privatization process itself, and you know how privatization is going. And the fact that he's accountable, he's controlling the Supreme Council, and that we have a special control committee, that allows him to have a more real impact on the processes that are taking place in the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u85	Please, Petrenko, prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u86	Thank you, Petrenko, the Communist faction, the Summary. Filip Filippovich, please tell us how to legally provide for the liability of the State Property Fund for those objects that are subordinated to it, such as the Suma Region, the largest enterprise, the State Property Fund's controlling package. However, this facility is being destroyed, destroyed, and the State Property Fund has no influence, and management is not managing the collective.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u87	I understood the question. And we, when we were on the committee looking at this bill, I want to say that we had comments on our committee that we needed to focus the foundation's work on the management of state ownership rather than on privatization, and the administration of state ownership, and the management of parts of the state that are in one or the other corporate enterprises, and in terms of responsibility, here the issue is clear and clear here other laws are already in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u88	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u89	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, I'd like you to give me the floor to speak from the commission, and for the sake of question, please give the word Shibku Vitali Jakovich, my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u90	Please, it's Shibka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u91	Fast, socialist faction. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to ask you like that. We are well aware that today's will of time is privatization. So one of the functions that today is very good in this law is the privatization process where the Property Fund should be directly involved. But times can change, things can change. If that happens, if the reprivatization starts in our country, I don't think there's anything written about it in this bill. Or we can pass a law that doesn't provide for it. Because of course someone has to take care of it and the Fund, first. Do you think it's appropriate for this position to be recorded in this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u92	You know, I think that's not what's appropriate, and this, I think, if not soon, in our lives this process will begin. And I believe that this standard for the second reading must be written out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u93	Thank you. Have a seat, please. What are you gonna do? For what you've done today. Have a seat, Philip Philipovich. Please, 15 minutes to discuss. Carmagine, prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u94	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is truly, multifaceted, because it has been brought to the table several times. I would like to say that we need the law, because the lack of law allows the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund to move anyone. And I've told you the evidence of these movements over and over and over again. But I want out of this high rostrum right now, and I want to say those warnings that should not be allowed for the State Property Fund to not just turn into a sales agency. And I'm going to go to Mr. Chechtov right now: don't you understand, by reporting here that you're asking questions to be directly subordinated to the government, that means you're just going to be a sales agency. There is a President in the state today, and I want to protect the President today, because today he is Kuchma, and tomorrow he will be Yushchenko, and tomorrow someone else may be, that is, whatever the name of the President will remain. Therefore, it must be clearly stated that the State Property Fund is accountable to the Supreme Council and under the control of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to write that the State Property Fund for the Management of Objects is in the operational order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm just stressing management issues. And now, with regard to specific things that I'm talking about, you can't have the political forces further tear up the State Property Fund and dictate what's going on. I've known Mr Chechchev for a long time. But what I've been pushing through Odessa and that brutal note that I got from the State Property Fund on Odessa Airlines says is that there's nothing wrong with the kingdom. I'm showing you. If the volume of transport decreased in 2002, the number of passengers transported increased by 27.3 percent in 2003. So round and round, you'd say, that's the growth, right? But someone didn't like it. And I didn't like those who wanted to take this airline, the state airline. And I have the answer from the Ministry of Transport and the government. So it's interesting what they're writing -- that some pressure on the director of Mazurenka's airline began after the management's decision to ban the deployment of airplanes to order individual national deputies to pay their debts for earlier flights. They can't do this anymore. We need charters. And you, Mr. Chechetov, have taken and complied with their orders to release man! And then you didn't write that you were doing it again, but you wrote that we were there for a while and so on. There's a man in the hospital today!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u95	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Cloud. Get ready, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u96	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The State Property Fund Act is one of the strategic laws. And I'm sorry he wasn't there yet. But if you look at the bill, I think you need to seriously change its concept, because it's a special body whose task, first of all, is to act in the interests of efficient use of property. This is the first time. And secondly, the national security of Ukraine. Because what we've done so far was just across the street. It was not in the interest of privatization to make effective use of national wealth and state property, but in the interests of certain groups and individuals in order to benefit from it. And the second. It is a specific body that must be controlled and subordinated only to the highest legislative branch, not to the executive branch. And it says very cunningly that he is accountable and controlled by the Supreme Council, but subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. That would mean, if you were to adopt it in law, that the actual administration would be the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Supreme Council will be removed from this, it will contribute to corruption and unfair privatization, and it will not improve the efficient use of state property. In doing so, too, the head of the fund should be appointed and released by the Supreme Council of the President of Ukraine, and the head of the fund should make his proposals regarding the deputies for the approval of the Supreme Council. And there's still a point here that the fund can create different economic structures and so on. This is absolutely unacceptable, because the Property Fund is written down here as well, it has its own vertical, and it has to operate and no other organizations can be allowed to perform the function of the Holding Fund. So I suggest we move this law to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u97	Please, Mironenko. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u98	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, “Communist Party of Ukraine”. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine cannot vote in favour of the draft Law in such a way, as the Fund will act in accordance with the status, article 1, not by increasing public property, public property, people's property, but by privatization, which we all know is actually a thief and is used by oligarchs regardless of the faction in which they are, namely, the oligarchs, the people know it. The household fund must be working now, as has already been said in the reprivatization or nationalization and, above all, in the strategic sectors of the economy. We request the attention of all members of the people. The Patriots are in different factions, namely the patriots of Ukraine, in order to ensure the adoption of a law that would facilitate the taking into account of the experience already in existence. First, you know that in Italy, France and other States, electricity has been nationalized, government banks are established, strategic enterprises are nationalized. This is because private enterprises are selfishly raising tariffs, which reduces the opportunities of the population of the economy. We've got the opposite. We have universal privatization, and this bill will contribute to the continuation of this devastating privatization, which has already reduced the economy twice, has reduced the standard of living several times. For what purpose will we adopt this Law? I address all factions, including our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, if you are patriots, do not take in any way. And so I'm addressing all the factions, if you're really patriots, please pay attention to that. Let me give you an example. People are suffering, labour groups are suffering. As an example. The Gulf factory's work force?), which produced the best tanks in the world with double bottoms, environmental safety at 100 per cent. The same "Gettman Sagaidakny" was produced at the Keren Shipbuilding Plant of the Gulf. Now, the labour force has months to pay, and to privatize, let me tell you, colleagues, this is our Ukraine. The privatisation was related to a member of the "Our Ukraine"-Zhvania faction. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Zhvanja to facilitate the payment of her salary. People can't buy food, medicine and so on. Next. Is that what we saw yesterday? Amendments will be made to this Act. But don't God let us make the amendments the way they were yesterday. Of the 925 amendments, only six were adopted, and the other amendments were used to defile the company of the unspeakable, heinous defamation of the company. And that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u99	Thank you, Victor Andryovich, please have the word Cherniak, Krutz is? Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u100	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Privatization in Ukraine is not effective, scandalous and criminal. It's done through artificial bankruptcy, privatization for no price, acquisition outside the privatization process, channeling financial flows accordingly, the State Property Fund is outlawed, the law has not been passed until now. By the way, I'd like to put this in a broader context, the context of political reform. In the context of constitutional reform. The possibility of reform is not exploited through the adoption of laws. So far, the Law on the State Property Fund has not been passed, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers has not been passed, the Law on State Property Management, part of State Property. Here are the reserves, the real reserves, the real political reform. The Supreme Council has passed these laws several times on both the State Property Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers. The president promises them all the time and returns them to the Supreme Council. The question is: Who is behind the reform? Now what's the point? What's a nerve problem? What's the colossal? The fact that the President, the Cabinet of Ministers around them, were all the time against the Supreme Council having a real opportunity to control the privatization process. And all of these attempts are attempts to get privatization out of the control of the Supreme Council. And the promise was precisely because it was written in those laws that we adopted that he was accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council. Finally, I understand that the situation has changed slightly politically, has already privatized a lot of things, owned, stolen and probably already agree that we can make a recording accountable and controlled to the Supreme Council. I understand the intentions of the Communists, the representative here, of good intentions, but I am convinced that if I don't adopt the law, it will be worse. After all, this law gives us more opportunities. The Supreme Council's reporting and controlling means that there will be mechanisms to control this process. The privatization train cannot be stopped. After all, we need to adopt a law on the State Property Fund, introduce its activities into the legislative field, and give the Supreme Council the opportunity to control this process. I think that's going to be the achievement of this entry: "subversive and subversive." At the same time, I understand the Cloud, a member of the Cloud, subordinated to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Kruc.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u102	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. First of all, I would like to stress the urgent need to adopt a law that regulates the status and mandate of such an important state body as the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Our Constitution expressly stipulates that the authorities of the State, their officials, must act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. We did it differently. For eight years since the adoption of the Constitution, a key subject of privatization, such as the Ukrainian State Property Fund, has acted on the basis of a legal act. This also gave rise to some of the corresponding negative trends in the privatization of state property. With regard to the content proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Project, it raises a number of observations, including conceptual ones. First, it draws attention to the desire of the project's authors to reduce the role of Parliament in monitoring the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. And so, the privatization process. So according to paragraph 2 of the Provisional Position on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, which is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its activities is subordinated and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This item has already been mentioned and the draft formula for the relationship between the Ukrainian State Property Fund and Parliament has been changed. According to article 1 of the project, the Fund is accountable and controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Such a change in today’s conditions, such as mine, seems unreasonable and unwarranted. According to the project, the State Property Fund of Ukraine has in particular the right to cancel acts of regional offices and representations of the Fund. At the same time, the Crimea State Property Fund of Ukraine is not entitled to do so in relation to the acts of the Property Fund in the Autonomous Republic of Ukraine. I understand a particular feature of the legal status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but this raises a legitimate question: Is such a benefit justified for the Property Fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea from a legal point of view? Does it contradict the project's position that the Property Fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is part of Ukraine's single system of state privatization bodies? If the property fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is part of a single system, logically, let alone the legal side of the matter, the Ukrainian State Property Fund, as the highest body of the system, would have the right, as it were, to correct the activities of all without exception the components of the system, including in the case of the issuance of corresponding administrative and other acts. So the content of what I have mentioned and the set of other project positions should be further worked out and re-readed for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u103	Please enable Semenyuk’s head mic for privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u104	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, they say to the people, "Don't let God live in a period of uncertainty." And when we don't have the Cabinet of Ministers law today, the lack of law on the State Property Fund, and it's done everything on the part of the majority and the executive, so that the law on the administration of public property objects isn't adopted or acted on, we have a very scary picture today. Of the 1,322 closed-circuit companies, where the share of state property is between 25 and 100 percent, only 108 enterprises have contracts to manage the business. What does that mean? There is no law on the State Property Fund. There is no law on the administration of public property and, in fact, no one controls the public sector of the economy. That's the first one. The other one. We still have to make clear during the political reform period the mandate and function of the State Property Fund, and above all, the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to see why the Wakhanalia is such that the Cabinet of Ministers is not in charge of the property he was supposed to manage. It is very sad that we are talking about this today when we consider the law on the State Property Fund. And if the law on the State Property Fund and its subordination to Parliament had worked earlier, the negative would, of course, have been less. I used to be the author of the law on reprivatization. And now I'm working on submitting mechanisms, proposals for that law that was passed in the first reading at the President's proposal. I believe that the mechanism for reprivatisation should also be laid out in the State Property Fund Act. You can't stop correcting your mistakes. That doesn't mean we have to do the reprivatisation. But to those disgruntled investors who have come and have not fulfilled their obligations, a reprivatization mechanism must be applied. Today, the Special Supervisory Commission has received numerous appeals from those labour groups that privatized through the certification system. Collectives are out of orders, jobs are lost, there's actually been a failure with the company's management, and I think that the appeals that come to the commission that takes it into state property help me pick it up. The main criterion should be in our work to correct mistakes and to provide jobs, wages and so on. And if the function of managing public property objects, as proposed today by the Scientific and Experimental Department, is to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers, and privatization and reprivatization functions should be under the State Property Fund, but the law should be adopted. Because if we do not accept it, uncertainty allows us to manage telephone rights today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u105	The draft law on the Ukrainian State Property Fund has been completed. We'll determine his fate on Tuesday. There's a question about the bill on the organization and formation and circulation of credit stories. Registration number 4196. Reported Deputy Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak. Ten minutes. With regard to the vote, I repeat, fellow honourable Members, you and I have indeed made a decree that we will work from now on in the mode of voting every day, but this decree will take effect from the time of publication. Today it is not yet published, it will, as I know, be published tomorrow, published, meaning from the next plenary Tuesday, and we will continue to deal with the issue every day and immediately vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The National Bank of Ukraine, in accordance with the legislative initiative, is introducing to the Supreme Council a draft law on the organization and formation and circulation of credit history. The project was prepared by the author group of the National Bank of Ukraine with the participation of representatives of commercial banks. One of the main problems with the lenders' relationship, and first of all with the lenders' banks, is the absence of a lender with a fully reliable and historical retrospective information about its borrower. Each bank maintains special and expensive services to collect and verify information about the borrower, his financial situation, his other liabilities, his accounting with other creditors, and so forth. On the other hand, a loanor with a good credit history cannot convince a bank to account for this story when a bank interest is determined at its disposal, since the bank requires an objective rather than subjective, or subjective, information subject. The world experience that we have carefully studied proves that there is a very effective and well-confirmed way in over a century of practice to establish a new philosophy of the relationship between the creditor and the borrower through the establishment and functioning of the credit history bureau. The establishment of credit offices will help to solve a number of critical tasks. First. The credit bureau increases the level of bank information about potential lenders and allows more accurate forecasting of the return on loans. The other one. The credit bureau allows you to reduce the cost of searching for information that banks have collected from their customers. Third. A credit bureau is shaping a kind of disciplining mechanism for borrowers. Everyone knows that if he fails, his reputation in the eyes of potential creditors will fall, cutting him off from the loan, or making him much more expensive. This mechanism also increases the borrower’s incentive to repay the loan, reducing the risk of unconscionable behavior. On what principles are credit offices built? The credit office guarantees confidentiality, controls access to data, provides fair sharing and information for members of the bureau. The credit bureau does not make decisions about the issue of credit, does not own the data provided, manages the circulation of information, but does not change the data received from the members of the bureau. Now a little bit more about the key principles laid down in the bill. First. The volunteering and disclosure of credit history. Article 9 of the project provides for the voluntary development of credit history through the granting of written consent to the subject to transfer the credit card data to the credit history bureau. The protection of the subject of credit history from unsanctioned knowledge of it is achieved through restrictions on access to credit history. Getting credit stories from the bureau is possible only through the written consent of the subject of the credit history he has accumulated. This is article 11 of the project. The other one. Encourage credit institutions to work with the bureau. The draft law establishes an incentive principle for the interest of creditors in the work of credit history bureaux, access to, access to information from credit history bureaus, only those organizations that have made agreements with the bureau to transfer credit history. The creditor may be a participant in several credit offices that allow him to compare the information he will receive. If a credit institution does not provide its credit history, it accordingly does not have access to credit stories that it has given to other organizations of the bureau and thus finds itself in an information vacuum. Third. Protecting information about the creditor. The information relating to the creditor itself is also disclosed solely by the consent of the creditor, which prevents the dissemination of information on the activities of the creditor. The bill also provides for the verification of the credibility of credit history and the purpose of using this information by the very subject of credit history. Four. Organizational approaches to the creation of a credit history bureau. The trend in global lending has recently shown that the vast majority of bureaux are created as private commercial institutions, where credit institutions and commercial structures are founding their founders. The draft law provides for the creation of a private credit history bureau in the form of a corporation with statutory capital of at least 5 million dollars. The exclusive activity of the bureau is to collect, store, and use information that forms a credit history. This activity is linked to activities that are licensed. The Bureau of Credit History should ensure confidentiality and security in dealing with credit information. The work of the office is built on the principle of self - sufficiency. Once again, the creation of the bureau, first of all, is needed not by the public authorities, but directly by market participants, borrowers and creditors. The first is to get cheap and fast loans. The second is to expand the volume of operations by introducing mass credit. Dear National Deputies! The experience of countries where credit offices operate shows that voluntary credit history changes the employer’s psychology, since the design of a positive image will be economically advantageous. And for small businesses, it's a free commercial of their business reputation and their creditworthiness, a refusal by the borrower to form his own credit history puts him in an unfavourable position compared to those who have given consent and also allows him to appreciate his willingness to repay the loan at the right time. The adoption of the law will give new impetus to expanding the access of Ukrainian citizens, business entities, to credit resources. In view of what has been said, please consider the bill and support it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u107	Thank you. Are there any questions in those who want to know? Sign up. Let me explain. Three minutes. Carmazine. Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u108	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Your Honor, I generally agree with your idea, but I can't understand why I won't have the right to receive information about the credit history of a certain legal or physical person, a business entity that provides services on a non-permanent basis. Or who does the work, not the provision of services or the realization of goods. Why can’t a public organization continue to be the object of establishing one or the other when such credit stories will exist? Why do you restrict access to these credit stories? And what do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u109	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for your acceptance of the project as a whole. As far as your question is concerned, I wanted to tell you that there was a serious discussion on this subject on the profiling committee as well. The point is that the exchange of information, the storage of information, relates to our legislation, which is that you have made this decision, to the commercial and banking secret. This is not information that we can mold into open sources. That is why a special legislative settlement was needed. We need to be very clear about who and how they have access to this story. This is what we said in the bill that only a creditor today, and it's not just a bank, it's any institution that can provide services on a permanent basis, can get this kind of information. Disclosure of information for anyone means destroying the concept of a commercial banking secret and could harm any creditor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u110	Please, Semenyuk, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u111	The Seminucle faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, the Socialist Party always supports the medium and small business, is actually the middle-class bulkhead that will get Ukraine out of the gap. That's why I have a question for you. Whether it will help to shape the circulation of credit stories today to the average and small business. That's the first question. And the second. Today it is suggested that the session room includes a law, also proposed by the bank to review article 7 of the Act on Evaluation and Evaluation, where you propose to make separate criteria for the assessment of mortgage property. How it's going to respond, whether tomorrow there's going to be people who don't own their apartments in credit, all the more so that the criteria have to be defined exactly the same as for banking structures that for people who get credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u112	Unfortunately, I won't be able to answer your second question. Here's a new question for me. I'd like to see if we can communicate in more detail. About your first question. It seems to me that now it may be difficult to predict how things will turn out, that if we accept the bill, it will help the subject, not from the size of its capital, but from its integrity. At any rate, if I, as a banker, have been approached by a lending entity who had previously taken five loans and all returned them conscientiously to other banks or other creditors, believe me, I will be the first to be interested in issuing such a loan and in lowering the interest rate. Here's the whole ideology that's been built in this mechanism, and I'm repeating it for 100 years in other countries. But what's very important is that I talked about it. Sometimes small businesses do not have the ability to put up serious commercials and things like that. Thus, the introduction of such a credit history would in fact mean free advertising for such businesses. In this sense, it seems to me that we are allies with you and such a bill will be very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u113	Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u114	Rodionov, Communist faction. May I have a word with my comrade at the Masenko faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u115	Microphone Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u116	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. Dear reporter, I am interested in such a question. We're talking at all levels right now about what we're going to do to make the credit available to us so that we can use more of the population. But in practice that's as far as I'm concerned, and there's a lot of references to me that people, basically these average citizens, could be someone who's taller in Kiev, even affordable loans and unlimited amounts. And those down there can't get any kind of credit. So tell me, if we adopt such a law, would it improve the situation with the possibility of getting a loan, or would it make it worse?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u117	Once again, I would like to emphasize that for conscientious lenders, the situation will certainly improve. I'll give you those studies that we studied when we prepared the bill. In all the countries where credit offices exist, a person with a good credit history gets a loan of interest twenty below the one who does not have such a story. This is a very important indicator. And I'm convinced that our banking practice will be the same. If you are a conscientious lender, you can turn to the bank by showing such a credit history, or good name, and get a loan, and you will get cheaper than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin, reports from the profile committee. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! This bill that we are now considering with you, unlike many other economic bills, which are often, unfortunately, born through such virtual mental exercise, or such abstract approaches, the construction of certain abstract economic models, this law was born of life, from what is actually happening every day in our banks, in the relationship between banks and financial institutions with customers. Every day thousands and tens of thousands of people come to banks to get loans especially now that they get credit for consumer goods, for cars, for housing purchases, for some other things, for access to credit, for access to financial resources, for financial services of banks is very and very relevant, and this bill is also taking a step towards making credit more accessible, cheaper and more efficient. Dozens of times have been mentioned in this rostrum, of many other rostrums about the need to reduce the bank’s interest and improve the service of legal and physical persons from our banks. We have to understand that by any spell, we will not achieve this goal, we will not lower the bank's interest, and we will not make banking services more effective. We need to adopt laws one by one that create more favourable conditions for the functioning of the financial market and thus this law is very important. In fact, offices are being created that will accumulate loan history of borrowers and provide banks and other financial entities with information to facilitate access to financial resources. World practice shows that in all countries where financial systems are developed, financial markets and consumer loans are developed. These offices play a very serious, very important role in stimulating not only the development of financial services but also in stimulating the actual production of consumer goods. So this project was considered by the committee, and we discussed it in a very sharp discussion among the issues that were most challenging, among the issues was information security, information provision, and also the creation of a credit office, the statutory capital of a credit office. These warnings were made on the committee and the bill as a whole was supported and recommended for first reading taking these warnings into account. I suggest that the hall adopt this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u120	Thank you, sit down, please. We've signed up, let's take ten minutes to discuss this. Please, Karmazin, prepare Solomon. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u121	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The bill provides for a legislative level to regulate the possibility of the creation and activities of legal persons whose exclusive activity will be the collection, storage and use of information that will consist of a credit history, i.e. the collection of information about a legal or natural person regarding the execution of a credit right and the identity of such a person. Of course, there are positives and benefits to these many, they have already been mentioned. I would like to make some remarks to this project, supporting the whole idea of adopting this bill in the first reading. Although, of course, I would prefer it to be part of the bank bill, the banking business, because it's only part of the activity. Thus, article 6 of the bill establishes a comprehensive list of persons as potential participants. In particular, banks, credit unions, pawnbrokers, insurance companies, and others have been assigned to such individuals as business entities who provide services or sell goods on a permanent basis. There will be no right to receive information about the credit history of a certain legal or physical entity that provides services on a nonpermanent basis, which I have already asked questions about. It's not normal. Moreover, article 14 states that the founders of the bureaux and legal persons should be active at least three years from the date of their registration and not be in debt for taxes and other payments in the last three years. So the bill clearly clears the law of a new enterprise, or a citizen who only started working or working for a year, two or two and a half years working, but not three, being a member of a credit office. I believe that this is discrimination against subjects of farming according to the signs of the timing of their activities and this is unacceptable, and there must be an expulsion, because this discrimination falls within the requirements of article 31 of the Ukrainian master code and this is prohibited by this code, so I am going to the committee, the bank for the removal of this article. In addition, the bill foresees and is inconsistent with the types of bureaux, so the subject is set out in article 3, that the activity is a collection of information that will form a credit history. However, the 15th article already says that the object of the activity is solely credit history and the provision of services related to the processing and analysis of information that consists of credit history and is not the subject of information collection. So there are two different types of activity between them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u122	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, please, Solomonine, prepare for the Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u123	Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I'm not an expert in banking and financial matters, but in this bill, I'm very interested in one thing and I have to say a few words about it. This is primarily to protect the subject of credit history bureau members from unauthorized access to this information. We live with you in an age of information technology, everything is transferred to electronic media, and you and I are witnessing that in the market of Petrovka for 6 bracelets every citizen of Ukraine an interested person can buy a cider disk with a telephone base of the 09th city of Kiev and the Kyiv region where the name, name, surname, telephone, address, street, house, apartment, even year of birth and from which the phone is installed. Similarly, there are databases in the DAI, and after the election of the presidential company in Russia ended at the e-mail addresses of our Supreme Council of Ukraine, including my e-mail address received more than a dozen messages from Russia, with a proposal for a certain amount to obtain SD discs with data inscribed in Moscow and Moscow, as well as on the telephones, and other interesting including, credit information. So first of all, I would like to warn the authors of this bill and draw their attention to the fact that the protection of the information of the participants in credit history should be such that it can't be broken so that they can't operate with the database then so that it doesn't go to other people, strangers, I'll even say criminal hands. What's going on? This is the kind of database they use when they come to the hands of certain political parties, and they're used in order to get some peasant uncle in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki to speak on behalf of the leader of the political party with a strong appeal for a very hot love for him. And even now, people are turning to us, the Ukrainian national MPs, and asking, where did they get our data? Last name, first name, first name, address, et cetera. So the question is very big. And I would like to ask the drafters of the bill to work more thoroughly on the protection of information that will be accumulated in the Bureau of Credit History. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Chernobyl Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u125	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, Our Ukraine, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Darnicke electoral district of Kiev! National Deputy Chernovetsk Leonid Mihajlovich. As a specialist, I would like to discuss with you whether we should be in a hurry to adopt this bill. There is a proposal from the National Bank that deserves my approval, including the death of incasators every day. And Natzbank made a very noble proposal on this and you voted. But it's about the credit offices. There is indeed a problem with the credit offices. Because Ukraine now has the most fraud in banks by a variety of disorderly people. And there really is a problem. Because a cockroach goes to one bank to take a loan, then another bank to take a loan, then in the third and there's no single system that a cockroach can stop at some stage. The proposal of the National Bank is therefore worth the attention. But I don't judge him as a bill. This is normal practice, working among banks to make these people, and today there are such bases, to bring God’s silence into the light and to tell them who they are, whether they give them credit or not. But I want to draw attention to the following. Until the National Bank proposes a strict system of confidentiality in this bill and guarantees us that the bill will be used for political purposes, because, through a credit office and many communists taking credit and not communists, it will not be used to withdraw it in elections or elsewhere, nor can it be adopted in any case. As a recommendation of Nazbank, Nazbank has the legal capacity to adopt the regulations registered in the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's normal. The whole world is struggling with globalization, entering into human life and controlling it under many parameters without strict safeguards, which will be given to you by the legislators, the distinguished people's deputies, that this will not be used to harm people, not in any case. Because it's a national problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u126	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. I'm not turning it off -- automatics, Leonid Mikhailovich, we're making progress too. Thus, the question of the draft law on the organization and formation and circulation of credit stories is completed, and its fate will be determined by the day of the vote. Dear colleagues! I want to consult you, you know, tomorrow will be International Theatre Day, I think it'll be quite uncomfortable if we don't now consider this law, which has a direct bearing on this problem. So what I'm asking is the time that we're going to take 15-20 minutes to discuss this law right now, I'm going to give it up after the second hour for the "Variable" and according to the broadcast. Is there any objection? Thus, representatives of ministries and departments who have been invited to consider the following questions may be free. The bill on theatres and theatres is being considered -- registration number 3189 -- reports Valery Gabrielna Zaklunna-Mironenko, National Actress of Ukraine and National MP. How much Valerie Gabriell time do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u127	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u128	This is 3, 5. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u129	I would like to begin by congratulating you, congratulating all the viewers of the theater on a truly great holiday tomorrow, and myself, a good one, of course, to consider what we have made a concession today, I see as the attitude of the good and the Supreme Council and the Government towards the area of our life, which is called the theatre. And if, today, in our daily lives of the work of the Supreme Council, we are guided primarily by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules, the Constitution for the Theatre has been a system of Stanislavsky for the rest of the 20th century. Under these laws, there was a theater in this system. But the time has passed, much has changed, and today many theatres that were previously protected by the State have become a different kind of theater, new types of commercial theatres have emerged, which I don't know, monotheists, lots of species. And these relationships need to be settled. And this law, in my view, is designed to regulate all public relations in the theatre, determine the types of theatres, determine the legal status of theatres, determine the order of their establishment, finance, taxation, everything, I think, we have incorporated into this law. How this law was created. When several versions of the bill were considered on the committee, we considered proposals. The Committee then sent this law to all Ukrainian theatres. It was considered in theatres. Wishes were made and improvements were made to the bill. Virtually all theatres responded and made proposals. The committee met twice at the visiting session with the presence of the principal directors, with the presence of the principal directors and leading actors of Ukraine discussed. It's that bill that's almost going back to study a lot. The Ministry of Culture has established an ad hoc group to finalize and process all proposals, and I therefore think that if we agreed to adopt this bill today as it exists with further elaboration and that people are seriously engaged in it. These are the main directors of our theatre, Franco Theatre, leading theatres, academics, nationals. Very detailed suggestions are being made, and I think it will be possible to establish a rule on which the theatre will live, a regulation that will legitimize spiritual life within such an amazing form of art as the theater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u130	Thank you. I think we're clear. Have a seat, Valeria Gabriel. Reported by the actress and co-reported by the director, please head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Stepanovich Tanjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u131	I wouldn't repeat what Valeria Gabrielna said very well, because we just need this law. We really did a little feat in the fact that we didn't close any theater after all these battles with the Cabardins happened. We didn't close any theaters, they all work. In addition, up to 120 new studios and theaters were created. Private organizations, as well as private surprises, have emerged. But the status of academic theaters has changed, and the status of national theaters has changed. All of this requires legislative order. So I'm absolutely convinced that people don't care about the theater. And two of our factions are both communists and our Ukraine will vote for it. I would very much like representatives to vote for it, so to speak, the center, most people, who have to understand that not only is light in the window, not just with one money is culture, but that culture is all spiritual exaltation. This law will regulate the work of the theater and allow us to adopt in the future a number of laws that will economically contribute to the development of cultures and development theaters. The committee therefore decided to support it. We didn't have a voice against it. And I'm speaking today on behalf of both the Donate Theatre, and on behalf of the Lion Theatre, and on behalf of the Crimean and on behalf of our national teams, the request to vote in favour of this by 450 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u132	Thank you, Les Stepanovich. I think we'll do that. Please, ten minutes to talk, come on, 15. Slippery. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u133	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u134	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u135	We will certainly uphold this law, but I will start my speech with pain in my heart. Not to talk about it I have no right to know what a terrible state the actors first in Ukraine are living in a stationary music-dramatic theater by them. M. Poultry. For many years now, the public and all generations of kung fu have been questioning the preservation and reconstruction of our theater, the spiritual sanctuary of the Ukrainian people, its artistic relic, the cradle of the first professionally realistic theater founded by the distinguished countryman Mark Kropivnitsky. This is our past, this is our present and our future. More than ever before, they need moral and material help. And in the avant-garde of this action, we, honourable national MPs, all have to say the first word of protection and support for the holy cause. Because today the Temple of the Kropitvinsky gods is in a state of emergency and needs a complete reconstruction and a return to its original beauty, actors here are working in terrible conditions that do not meet any international standards and human conditions. I mean, naked enthusiasm and artistic patriotism, and I'm just embarrassed to talk about the wages of the actors. I've been addressing this institution for the second time, the letters have been sent to all the facilities, but there is no positive and fundamental solution. Although temporarily some of the problems of the collective theater could be solved by having a built-in theater as a dormitory for actors, but today it is occupied by a respected State Customs office, perhaps one of the "poorest" organizations in Ukraine. [[in quotes]] Although at the end of 80 years, construction of a new theater was started in the city centre and 85 percent of construction work was done in 1991, millions were spent, but with the arrival of "restaurants" the construction was halted, everything was stolen, destroyed and sold from the hammer by one of the oligarchs of the local value for 750 thousand dollars. [[in quotes]] And so to this day, this building stands as a Chernobyl symbol of our attitude toward culture. The theater will soon be 125 years old and this date would have to be marked at the national level. Are we going to wait again, and what will Mrs. Europe tell us? We cling to Europe and honor our culture, preserve our sacred and undying heritage, unfortunately we cannot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u136	Please, Karmazin, get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u137	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, so far there has been no special law in Ukraine that regulates relations in the field of theatrical activity. Questions relating to copyright protection, others arising from theatrical activities, were constantly regulated by the Civil Code, the basics of cultural legislation, the Copyright and Companionary Rights Act, and this Law was certainly necessary. But in view of his study, I kept asking myself: ‘ Why is it that people like Vladimir Grishko, a prominent tenor of modern times, are not needed in this state? Why they are not needed, why today’s authorities do not create conditions for their work. I looked at the project, and in this project, which, I'm going to say right now, I'm going to support the first reading, and there's a lot of naphthalene in this project. There are rules for the operation of theatres that have been formed in the past, unfortunately. We have not found our reflection on the market for theatre workers, the purpose of financing theatre projects, as is done in developed countries. Incentives for sponsoring contributions, appeals, and VAT cancellations, and lowering the tax rate on those who contribute to the theater. Especially are the district and rural theaters that are falling today. The bill does not distinguish between the national repertoires of theaters. I would like to see more attention in this bill to reinvigorating the very theaters that exist in the district centers, in the villages, in the district centers, and in the amateur theaters. I'd like this bill to help us rebuild culture, help us channel the cost of restoring theaters. I draw your attention once again to the Odessa Theatre of the Opera and Ballet, where we have not once considered the issues and talked about financing. We wrote in a separate line, but that security doesn't allow you to finish the restoration of this theater right now, and thus, unfortunately, the theater is dying like the whole of Ukraine. We did not foresee how to help those actors. We didn't see how to fight this thing, how to fight it, how to get the directors, the directors of these theaters, and how it's influenced by the local authorities, when they're already getting people out of there politically. I will therefore amend the second reading. I'm asking you to accept the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u138	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Yavorowski. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u139	Vladimir Yavorowski. I want to make such a trailer right now that I'm dividing and not identifying a talented national artist from Ukraine, Valeria Zaklunna, whose skill I admire with the work of her as the legislator to whom I have certain claims, but these claims are caused by one and only to make this law really more complete. So our Ukrainian destiny, the fate of our Ukrainian culture, in particular the culture of theater, is that, as far as I'm concerned, let the actors not take offense to me, but the Ukrainian theater, and I mean, from drama to performance, actually, shot in the 1930s, along with the death of Kurbas and Mikola Kulish. Then we had some sort of dramatic hint, and once again, it's my personal opinion, Korniyczuk, in other playwrights, and today, in fact, we can talk about the complete collapse of Ukrainian theater art. This is his financial condition, this is the absence of good Ukrainian drama, especially after the death of young Slava Stelmacha, who offered modern drama, modern exhibitions for our theater. That's why this bill is so important. That's why I'd like to say, really, there's, maybe there's too much population. We need to clearly mark and put on the shoulders of the state today, nothing else we have today to help the state save our best professional theaters. Don't let the theaters, the commercial theaters, offend me. But if we don't create a condition today for our Kyiv National Theatre, the Zankovetskie Theatre, the Forest Theatre of Ukraine, I mean the basics of our artistic nests, if today the state doesn't put their shoulders under them, these theaters will simply die. Here my colleagues have also talked about the meager wages that the actors have today, and their incompetence, we have to do it before that, Mrs. Valeria, I think we don't have to rush. Perhaps there are other round tables before the second reading, grabbing everything and putting everything in place. We were in a hurry with the gastronal activity law, and today we have a huge problem. It turns out that if a theater on the Left Bank moves over and gives its show on the Right Bank, he has to pay taxes already! What taxes?Oh, my God! What can he do?Oh, my God! Because of that, I say again, I've given them full state protection to write very clearly professional theaters. I don't want to talk about any details right now. As it were, the theaters are self - centered, and the theaters are commercial. This is the only option we have today to save our theater art. I'm in favour of voting in the first reading. And secondly, let's take some time and work on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, Masenko. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u141	Thank you. I want to assure you in advance that I am personally, and perhaps the members of our faction will all support this bill because it is really necessary because it regulates the rights and duties of the theatre and the theatrical activities. That's clear. I particularly like article 3 of this bill, which states that public policy in the field of theatre art is based on the principles of the general accessibility of theatre, humanism, democracy, the priority of human spiritual values and the freedom of creativity. If all of these positions were really supported and they were being implemented in us, we'd have theater activity at a slightly higher level. The colleague Yavorowski here performed, and there are many who support, say that in Soviet times, the theater was destroyed, but in those days, strangely, masterpieces of world importance were created both in literature and dramaturgy, both in music and in songs. It's not that "I'm going to drown in a deep river," but it's now on my mouth in all the songs that were created in those days. So I never agree that it was a downturn in theatrical activity. In order for theater to develop, this really requires State support, if the state doesn't support it, it's necessary to create conditions like the language now, the aura to create for both theatre activities to develop, and the dramatists to write. Look, I'll give you an example. From this rostrum, not so long ago it was, Victor Yushchenko was reading the poems of Frost, and in the faction of "Our Ukraine" how many talented people, here Drach is sitting, and the same Yavorowski, and the Mobchan wrote something good, and everybody was writing about Lenin, and the party, and the Soviet power, and the situation was created that they had everything going well, and now you see the same talented people as my friends, but they can't create just because they didn't create the right conditions to create art and to develop a theatrical activity in us. So once again, if we want to support theater and theatre work, we need to do everything we can to get the state back on track, and only then will we have theaters that will be available to those people, as it was with the Soviet authorities, when the theaters went out with their exhibitions and the countryside, and the masses of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u142	Thank you. Alexandre Mikolaiovich, Mikhailo Vasilovich Kosov is offended that you did not call him talented, so I'm going to add. Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u143	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Ukrainian company, Hersonian. I support the bill that is currently under consideration, as I support my colleague's strong statement on this issue. Dear colleagues, first of all, I sincerely thank Valeria Gabrielna, who is incarcerated for taking on this difficult issue -- the issue of legislative resolution of the development of theatre artists and theatres. The history of Ukraine and our society has demonstrated the drive toward literature and theatre art. During the Soviet era, the theater flourished the most, anyone who did not say anything. At the regional level, we had public theaters, school theaters, theaters in cultural buildings. Sadly, there is no such thing today. The state doesn't need this kind of art, and better when young people wander, they sit without light in veteran homes, they degrade our morale. The fact that the state doesn't need a culture is seen in the state as a whole in the village, in the city, in the state of culture houses, in the music schools. Even the 2003 declaration of culture in Ukraine did not help. Today, public institutions, I mean theaters, are still alive, and utilities are left to die. For example, in previous years, I had to observe the procedure of the community theater in the village of Kalança Hersson district, which had its authority over Crimea, Russia, other cities, and villages of the former Soviet Union. Then we wanted to raise him to a position, which included a theatre of drama and comedy at the Herson district drama theater. There were rooms, there were frames. Even in one year, three well - deserved Ukrainian artists became part of the village, yet there was little intelligence when a financial problem arose; they did not find 100,000 to support this circuit theater. Instead of saving it, the district council had to form a liquidation commission, which I led, and believe me, how much dissatisfaction had to be seen, how many tears and everything else, when the wages had to be extinguished by actors and so much else involved. As a result, today there is neither a public theater nor a professional who has done so called a state aid. So about this bill, I think the main thing is to make the theaters build. And including in the village, so there's no gap between the city and the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So we calmly and beautifully talked about the theater, Paul Silently a minute of the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich. I'm talking to Masenko. I'm sure you haven't read any of my texts, because if you were to familiarize yourself with my literature work, you would not have said anything, you would not have found or found a bookstore, if you found my books, please show me at least one line that was dedicated to that great leader that you worship today and that party that you're deceiving the people. ideologies you won't confess for a long time, I've always lived up to the most important principles of human creativity, and so I'm asking you never to use it, and you can't blame me for what you can't blame me for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u146	Yes, dear fellows! Question completed. I think you and I will be successful in adopting this bill in the first reading on the day of the vote. Yes, please show us a list of the people who signed up for "Virgin." Yes, please, I'll continue for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, Solomon passed on his speech to Katuszeb, that is, he will have six minutes. Please, Katusheva, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u147	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Katuschev Crimea. Respectable voters, radios. With deep concern and concern at the events that have taken place in the Crimea, I am addressing you. On 23 February, in the Crimea radio broadcast, I appealed to all residents of the Crimea to resist provocation, to avoid being drawn into an inter-national conflict. But ears! Allow me to refer to you again as the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Crimean Tatar, communist, mother, grandmother, these concepts are inseparable to me. The two-way provocateurs seem to be able to perform black crumbs and face us on a national basis. It's sad and scary that there are those who get under their influence. The Fascist and extremely nationalistic elements that have been smuggled into Crimea are doing their black work. Betrayal and subjugation do not belong to a national or a party. You and I have one way out. We're always in the fight against evil if we're together. Our fathers and grandfathers of the most wicked enemy, Fascism, have overcome in the years of the Great Homeland War only because they were fighting against the evil one nation, the Soviet people. We can resist podunks and provokers, and we are now if we do not allow them to separate us on a national basis. Crimea is our common home. And it is up to you and me to leave our children and grandchildren a legacy. Think about it. The blood has already spilled. Stop. Because those who played this scenario are watching what's happening on the side. And the blood of your kinsmen and your kinsmen will be poured out and poured out, if you do not desist. It's the law for all of us. One people's interests cannot be resolved by violating the rights of others. Let us look boldly at the truth in the eyes of those who need it. The tragic, woeful date of 18 May is approaching, the day of the deportation of my suffering people, the election of the President. And someone really wants to take advantage of the woes of the people for their dirty affairs, to stage a political show. On one of them, you and I were present in this room last Friday when the Law on Restoration of the Rights of Deportees was adopted on first reading. Like Girnyk and Sobolov, the defenders of the Crimean Tatar people have poured a lot of dirt on the communists. But what do you think when the case came to a vote in favour of the law, no poor defender supported the law, and the faction of the communists in full voted in favour of the Law on the Restoration of Deportees in the first reading. Look at the roll-call vote to figure out who's who. We Communists have nothing to hide from our people, whom we serve and whose interests we protect. We have always been consistent in our actions, we have always had holy canons of peace, justice, internationalism. So I would like to remind all those who are trying to blame the communists on everything, that it was by the Communists of 1989 that the Supreme Council of the USSR, most of whom were Communists, adopted a Declaration recognizing the eviction as genocide and crime, and that the Communists also passed a decree on the restoration of the rights of deported peoples, and it was the Company that established a programme for the return and restoration of Crimean Tatars to their historic homeland. It was at the initiative of the company that the Cabinet of Ministers of the USSR issued a decree 511 on the organized return of Crimean Tatars to their historic homeland. I believe in a healthy sense! I believe in the healthy powers of all the nationalities that live with us! Everything depends on the preservation and consolidation of the international peace and harmony in our hands. We are with you in response to society and history. Our people have always been honest, hardworking, strong in spirit and have never lost their optimism. The preservation and consolidation of international peace and harmony in the Crimea is our duty to you before future generations. Our task is to direct people's thoughts and aspirations to creative work, to build our common house called Crimea. Where there will be no hostility due to the lack of skin color or the lack of eye cutting, a different way of life. Let us do our utmost to maintain our friendship forever, regardless of our enemies ’ desires. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u148	Please, Karmazin, prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u149	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The noble Ukrainian people! Recently, the heads of the ruling political parties and the parliamentary groups and factions made public their appeals to the compatriots about the creation of a coalition of democratic forces in Ukraine, in this regard the Ukrainian Coordinating Council asserts that, coming out of the text of the said appeal, it can be seen as an attempt to narrow the question of the unity of democratic forces before their election within the limits of power by rejecting the Ukrainian people beyond this unification. Because it's only about the parliamentary government coalition, but a similar coalition between the various branches of government cannot be constitutional in their division as provided by the Constitution of Article 6. This once again demonstrates the legal nihilism of the parties to the agreement, the agreements and appeals signed by the leaders of the political forces who have lost elections to the 2002 Supreme Council and do not have confidence in the Ukrainian society, the signatories who represent the authorities, who deny democratic principles, cynically call themselves Democrats and advocate for the deepening of democratic transformations based on the creation of a coalition of democratic forces in Ukraine. Strongly defaming the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the power-defying forces are seeking other political reforms under the slogan of the healing of the political and moral-psychological atmosphere in society in the construction of an effective and responsible system of government, leading the Ukrainian people to a pitiful existence by the authors of the petition for solidarity without responsibility. When they're at the helm of power and have all the important influences on the development of society, they're trying to find support in the environment of the democratic forces and the Ukrainian people, and actually one more time to deceive them, as it happened last night during the night's vote. The great danger is the position of an agreement to strengthen the independence of the judiciary; it is a direct intervention of two branches of government in an independent judicial branch of power that is unacceptable in a civilized society. Realizing that the authorities have exhausted those who identify them tries to use the principles of uniting democratic forces that have declared and embody the use of the Ukrainian Coordinating Council can be viewed as plagiarism. However, the main danger is that the authorities are thus trying to disorient Ukrainian society and discredit the idea of consolidation. As a result, the Ukrainian Coordinating Council calls for the consolidation of democratic forces in a different plane beyond all branches of government on the basis of political parties and public organizations, thus enabling the Supreme Council to depoliticize and perform the functions of the higher legislative authority of the Cabinet of Ministers, the executive body. There will also be a mechanism to express the political will of the people and the influence of the hope of power. Therefore, if you do not want to coordinate your actions, let the burning call of Gruszewski reach your hearts, feel the weight of the moment, the need for coordination and organization, the subordination of all your forces to the demands of this moment — it is our duty and avoiding it will not forgive our offspring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u150	Please, Puzakov, prepare Sokirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u151	Vladimir Puzakov faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Crovogradština. This year, the Kirovogradians will mark a significant date, 250 summer grounds for the city of Kirovograda. In the past, these round dates of the city met in the context of human well-being, housing, new large enterprises were being built, roads were being built and built, streets were being expanded, schools and pre-school institutions were being expanded. What are the “successes” that will mark the city’s 250 years in a row? It's not hard to figure it out. During the 12 years of anti-national policy of Kravczuk and Kuchma, enterprises were destroyed, housing was abandoned, and most kindergartens were sold for nothing, and urban roads were destroyed, and utilities were collapsed. And it's also outrageous that in the wake of this destruction, once again, the question of the city of Kirovograd in the city of town is being raised. Who needs this? Four years ago, a referendum was held on this issue and an overwhelming majority, 76 per cent, voted against the renaming. What else do you need?? Regrettably, the diocese’s administration of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church is the initiator of the renaming. This initiative is well received and supported by local authorities, in violation of the rule of law, and convinces people that a completely different life will begin after the change. And there will be crops, and well-being will come, and there will be fewer people in pain. I can't understand one thing: this is the biggest problem that will improve the situation of the city and its inhabitants. Why is it so cruel to deceive people? And there is a saying of a people who are wise: "O God, trust in God, and do not be evil." Everyone knows that big funds will be spent to rename the city. It would be better if these funds were directed to the screaming, urgent problems of the city of Kirovograd. I am surprised to see the initiators of the city of Kirovograd, who have received free education under Soviet authority, free housing and much more, and who are now squandering Soviet time, which allegedly stole the current name of the city, church property, mother tongue and passed on to the current young generation dead factories, destroyed temples, mutilated souls. By fulfilling the many problems of the electorate who are coming to my reception, I appeal to you, Mr. President, to control the activities of your locally created vertical authorities, to force them to spend their people's money on the most pressing problems of people who have accumulated very and very much, to stop any name, to postpone them to the best of times, until the people are fed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u152	Please, Sokirka. Get ready for Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u153	Mikola Sokirko, faction. "Our Ukraine," the MP's Solidarity Group. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! On 14 May 2003, Parliament held parliamentary hearings on the issue of enterprise development in Ukraine for the initiative of the Solidarity Group. The fact that the parliamentary hearings have become the most massive in the number of participants shows the extraordinary relevance of the issues discussed in them and the presence of serious problems in the field. As a result of the parliamentary hearings, the Supreme Council adopted recommendations that gave a number of assignments to the Cabinet of Ministers and other responsible authorities aimed at speeding up business development in Ukraine. Further improving the regulatory event of the State and giving it a comprehensive and systematic character. It's been almost a year since then. However, it has to be noted that the business situation has become even more complex, even though it seems that in a successful 2003 government activity programme, business development has been given a lot of attention, in fact any entrepreneur will tell you that all these good intentions of the government have remained so on paper. 2003 and early 2004 were characterized by the lack of a comprehensive approach to business issues. The tax system has become even more complex and incomprehensible, and the aspects of the control bodies are simply unlimited. It is only worth mentioning the so - called tax despondants after working out certain areas that resembled locusts ’ attacks on green fields. During these destinies, entrepreneurs were forced to pay taxes in advance, promising otherwise serious problems. And how tax collectors know how to deal with their threats, entrepreneurs know very well. Sadly, the government’s promise to adopt the Tax Code remained on paper in the first half of 2003. The question is, What prevented this? If there's a parliamentary majority, if there's a parliamentary-government coalition, then why doesn't the government make an effort to adopt the Tax Code that our entrepreneurs expect. Instead, the government's initiatives undermine the simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting, and the bills submitted by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council propose further strengthening the administrative impact on the business environment. As an example, the draft law is registered for 4554, which proposes to establish criminal liability for violations of pension insurance legislation. Today, thousands of criminal cases against entrepreneurs are completely groundless, and then they are closed in court because of the absence of a criminal element. The Solidarity Group, the "Our Ukraine" faction, is today addressing representatives of all MP factions and groups asking to prevent the business from being destroyed. We think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u154	Thank you, please, Odysnik. Prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u155	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity." Honorable deputies, distinguished voters, good day to you, good health to you all. I think both MPs and voters will agree that there were a lot of words from this rostrum for reforming the agricultural complex and it was pointed out that there were a lot of mistakes in reforming. But unfortunately, mistakes, no matter how much we speak, not only do they not correct themselves, but they continue to violate others and, at the same time, even more serious and with more serious consequences. It is clear to all that agriculture is on its knees today. And in order for it to rise from its knees, it takes either serious government investment or an investor has to come. We know that the state support that was developed today by the Cabinet of Ministers, nothing but corruption and the continuation of the destruction of agriculture, gives absolutely nothing. That's why there's still investment. But please tell me if many people are willing to invest their money in a land where the risk is very and very high. Such people can be numbered on their fingers, and I would call them patriots of Ukraine. But for those who put money at risk, I would like to say, in places, power is very and very unkind. Think about it. Inadvertently, they did. Think about it. There comes an investor, a farm where not only weeds grow but trees have grown. An investor comes in, enters into a contract with the people, and at this time, the authorities must do their utmost to make the land work in their region. And what we see is quite the opposite. An investor is forced to rent property that is only on paper and that is no longer in nature. An investor is forced to pay off debts to which he has no bearing at all. The investor is forced to buy cattle and so on. Absurd. And when an investor disagrees with this absurdity, it turns out that it's being flown from all sides as far away as possible from the heads of government. So I went to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I would very much like the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Cabinet of Ministers to draw this very negative attention. And not only did they pay attention, but they did not want to leave it unattended and unconscionable. Because if we destroy the village, we will destroy Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u156	Please, Rahansky. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u157	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Trudova Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Supreme Council of Ukraine has entered a special period of its work, and changes are being made to the Basic Law of the State. The voters carefully observe our nervous haste and warn us not to make mistakes so that we and the water do not mold the child. Recently, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in its first reading a bill on election of ARC Supreme Council deputies, local councils and village, city heads. Colleagues, consider, the content of this draft law is the norm of the code, not the law. The leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine signed a political agreement on constitutional reform, which states, I stress, "adopt laws," not the law, "for elections to the Supreme Council of the ARC, organs of local self-government." Dear colleagues, voters of Ukraine! Why do these leaders betray their signatures? As far as I know, legal professionals at a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission are constantly warning its members of the gross violation of legislation in this matter. By this law the status of the Supreme Council of Crimea is confined to the status of local councils. And the status of its electoral commission to the territorial commission for the election of members of the local councils, this project is in grave violation not only of the Constitution of Autonomy, the laws of Ukraine, which confirm the State guarantees of autonomy, but also violates more than a dozen articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Some forces are constantly trying to slash the rights of the one in our state of autonomy given to it by the Constitution and by a number of laws of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly drawn attention to this. Two days ago, we and the National Deputy Strebko, Stanislav Kirilovich, took part in a special session of the Supreme Council of the ARC, which dealt with the proposed draft emotionally. In a session of the Supreme Council of Autonomy, the presence of council leaders, city heads, heads of state administrations unanimously accepted our request not to violate the laws of Ukraine and adopt a separate Act on the Election of Deputies to the Supreme Council of Autonomy. Or make changes to the applicable law. Recent developments in Crimea confirm the adoption of swift and unregulated decisions and laws. In this regard, I ask the Supreme Council to support me and the proposal of the Supreme Council of the ARC in this regard, and I ask you to consider my statement as a request to the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u158	Thank you, please. And the storm is changing places on the list. So the word is Shurma, to prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u159	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine has decided from this rostrum to base its position on the introduction of a proportional election system in Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[united]] First. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies on a proportionate basis goes to the fairway of declared social and political reform. It's different. The model of party representation itself contributes to the development of both parliamentaryism and the development of the country's party system as a whole. And that's why. Fighting for government power, obtaining seats in parliament, and so the ability to implement the party program supported by the electorate is the goal of any party, which is why elections to parliament, and if successful, the parliamentary majority, is the condition that a strong, stable party system is formed and that is its response to those who deny proportional law, operating on the claim of the imperfection of the country's party system. Third. The proportional system is the basis for the formation of a particular person of power, the formation of responsible authority, because the elected Parliament will form a majority, and the last is a coalition government. So the people will have a real opportunity to identify their living conditions, their changes for better or worse, with a specific political force. And then to express your attitude toward political power, to evaluate its power by voting in the next election. A fairly strong addition to the proportional electoral system is also relevant to Ukraine's budget economy. There will be savings in re-elections in districts where the elections are often deemed to be invalid. These are just some of the moments that have had a major impact on the faction's decision to join in the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian National Deputies on a proportionate basis. Ukraine's social-democratic party for the responsibility of power, for the development of parliamentaryism, for the formation and improvement of a strong party system. [[united]] And we have completely misunderstood the position of the opposition of individual political forces. Unless there's a desire to curb political reform at all costs. So just recently, these forces have advocated the adoption of a proportional law. It's enough to pick up the stenographers of the year to make sure of that. In order to achieve that desired goal, known factions were not even blackmailed. So, for example, in defining the government programme on April 16th and our Ukraine openly stated that it would not take part in the vote until the Proportional System Act was considered and adopted. And where did this zeal go today, why the position changed to the very opposite, not just the question of proportion, but also the question of other issues. The MP's faction of SDP(o) urges the parliamentary forces to stop political games that revolve around serious social issues and postpone their ambition plans and actively engage in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u160	Please, Yavorowski, get ready for Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u161	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky district of Lvivščina Dear voters, I am addressing you because there are several deputies in this room who are all alone in this room. I was speaking here during the discussion of the theater bill, and there was this famous theater scientist who was last at the theater when he was taking his students back to the theater, and here he was throwing him to me, Paula Mutchana there Drach. ‘ It seems like he has a laurel wreath of an art historian, so for some reason I mentioned the very nice words of Jeji Lez, the beautiful Pole, it's not Yavorowski, I say again, it's Jerzy Letz, who said that very often laurels take root in the head, so in this case we have something similar. I'm talking about something In my country house, which I have here in Kiev about 60 km from Kiev, a few days ago a stork flew in. When the storks arrive for me it is such a good sign from childhood, it means that everything will be good, that everyone will remain alive, that both the Lord God and nature will help us. I would very much like to have this good signal to our people, our voters. Our poor people, our poor voters, that you only heard yesterday from this rostrum of your liars and not just your liars, are giving the impression that these people have been chosen at different ends of our planet, some seem to be from Zimbabwe, which is totally indifferent to your interests and Ukraine, and others are tearing their souls apart for any way that Ukraine takes any step forward. It's that reality, and I understand how hard it is for you to figure out those realities. I want to tell you that nothing special and new is happening in Parliament. Common trades are under way, the authorities want to accept these constitutional changes as quickly as possible, and these changes are designed to be decorative only for the chairs to move, but the staff will remain in power. This is everything that's going on here, so you know it very clearly and clearly. I've got a Shurma standing in front of me, and I want to remind you, in Lviv, where you guys are chosen from, you're cool guys, you've got a zero with a stick, you know that, and what's going on today. A few days ago, I was in a circuit board session, and members of the district council were visited by Kozak, the head of the district esdeks on their jeep, and they were taken to each of these frightened deputies of the district council home and taken to the secondary session. And listen to the order of the day of the extraordinary circuit session -- "different." That's what it's called. There's neither the first nor the second. It's different. And these poor people raise their hands for what? The District Council accepts the approval of the resignation of the head of the district council. So make up your mind, Mr. Shurma, with your subjects, so don't make fun of the hens, now draw your hand. Well, say it now. But once again, don't take revenge on the Lvivka for taking you to the polls. Don't take revenge, boys. The storks came and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u162	The line is at the end. Please, Tomenko, get Taran ready. At the end of the discussion, I will be able to exchange lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u163	Mikola Tomenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my concern at the fact that the good idea of a whole set of three laws on elections to the Supreme Council, the local authorities of self-government in such an extreme regime is creating very serious problems, and we are national deputies, and the radio audiences, and our voters need to understand that. Yesterday Leonid Krawczuk, as a man of sincerity and candidness, said how he and the SDPU Party understood what elections were on a proportional basis. Leonid Makarovich said that we're going to get together in the air force and honestly and fairly share the party list. So we understand that we are billionaire Gregory Surkis and billionaire Victor Medvedchuk and Leonid Kravchuk will share the lists. Just like billionaire Rinat Ahmtov and Viktor Yanukovic will share an honest list of "Regions" and all the other lists will be honestly divided by 10 billionaires in Ukraine. And there is a serious danger. I respect the Communist Party, the Socialist Party, which for this law as well as our Ukraine and the Block of Timoshenko have been fighting for a long time. But the problem is that we don't be held hostage by three families or four billionaires, as Leonid Kravczuk says, will honestly share these party lists and after the elections Leonid Makarovich will say "we have what we have" and all the families are already brothers, sisters, relatives, nephews, will be sitting in this session room. And that's the problem when we discuss the Law on Elections to Local Self-Government. There are the same families and there are enough relatives in the city councils as well as in the district councils. I'm actually thinking maybe we should stop running at the same time to the brothers and sisters, some second-degree relatives, because we're changing the district now in the Donetsk district, and Vice-Prime Minister Clovis's brother is getting ready. Prosecutor General Vasiliev’s brother is already a national deputy. Soon there will be no place for a professional who is seriously concerned, not in this Parliament, not in local self - government. And I would like to say that there is a serious problem with the fact that there are so many honest people in this session hall who honestly want political reform, they don't know that they're already written. And it is very clear in these solitaires that constitutional reform is the result of having Viktor Janukovic registered as the only candidate for the Presidents. Victor Medvedchuk becomes Prime Minister of Ukraine and Stepan Bogdanovic Gavrish becomes Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if such solitaire is being implemented, then. Reform and political reform, which has been envisaged as an optimization of the power system in fact, only determines the usurpation of power in Ukraine. So let's think about what kind of reform we should do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u164	Please repeat, Shurma. Honorable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, are entitled to a reprimand immediately. But the card doesn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u165	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I would like to answer the great writer Yavorowski, who has been jumping around the constituencies of Ukraine since 1990 without the desire to choose in the same way because his words and obligations differ from what he did. One of the interesting things is, stop fooling people, what you're doing. For in the District Council there is its message of the day, and they will sit as they please, and not as you wish, Lord Javoriah. And as for the distribution of the election list in the united Social Democrats, I understand that you're annoyed by the leaders of our party, but that's obviously out of envy. Because your billionaires, Red and Dusty, are obviously not on the list. So you're worried about 2006 how to get there. And I'd like to say one more thing. If you are in a positive position, come to your district, and in addition to the political crash, do at least one good thing and people will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u166	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, you exchanged lines. You named him first. Please, Taran. Get ready for Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u167	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Court of Appeal ruled in favour of Julia Timoshenko on her application to court for the 1+1 television studio program. According to the court's ruling, 1+1 was supposed to correct false information about Timoshenko and give her the opportunity to speak on television. I'll remind you. Even earlier, when Vitrenko was on TV, Julia Timoshenko also filed a 1+1 TV trial, and there was also a court decision that required the 1+1 studio to refute the false information about Julia Timoshenko. Instead, the 1+1 TV studio continues to fail to execute a court decision to refute false information about Timoshenko, but the program "About" in which Timoshenko and Viktor Yushchenko are sailing every time, this program "For this," it's already me, it's not a position, it's not an ideology, it's not an information. It's a diagnosis. And another example. In the Epicenter program, Pekhoshik reported that the Constitutional Court confirmed the legitimacy of the vote in the Supreme Council on January 24th. Mr. Infantry, you're lying. And Ukrainian citizens should know that you're lying. I explain that the Constitutional Court simply refused to consider the issue of the opposition of Timoshenko and Yushchenko, referring to the Supreme Council's Rules as being not a law, but a decree, and therefore the Constitutional Court did not consider the issue on the ground, which is a big difference. And so, Ukrainian citizens, if you want to know the truth, look at the 1+1 program and take it the other way around. And finally. We live in a country where journalists are the first to die for the true word, whether it's a burned-out TV journalist, Vadim Boyko, killed and torn up by Guy Gongadze, Alexandrov, and the last name, the same journalist from Poltava Chechel, who died in a car accident in a strange accident just when he was going to make a deal with freedom and no one will know that this terrible row will not be extended. But at the same time, we live in a country where it burns shame for those who disgrace the journalist's very name, disgrace his calling, live in a country of rainbows, lapicures, pawns, jagers, corchins, and think about my journalist friends, on which side of the barricade you're on today, where the word of Gia Gongadazze is in blood, or where 30 Juda's pieces of silver are peeling, because the authorities are going to change, and then those who are more troubadours to the government will be the ones who are going to have to sail around it, but you'll all have to borrow their eyes in Syrka to look into the eyes, too, in that Sirca you want to borrow those eyes, but Sirka will no longer be after the presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u168	Please, Yukhnowsky, follow the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! Yesterday we passed the Law on Elections to the Supreme Council on a proportionate basis, in line with Act 4105 on Amendments to the Constitution. Changes are necessary and dangerous. We need to change the form of executive power. The initiators of the law claim that such a vacchanal that exists now and is allowed to function as our current president and his administration can no longer be repeated. As a result, under project 4105, Ukraine literally leaps from the presidential to the parliamentary republic. I wrote about the shortcomings in today's "The Voice of Ukraine" issue on March 26. I want to point out once again the fundamental shortcomings of the law. First, the Supreme Council. In addition to the present obligations related to the adoption of the law and the appointment, more complex, new, appointments and layoffs of government members are added. Members of the government listen to the Supreme Council, and a number of other assignments and hearings are added. The Supreme Council will not handle such a huge amount of responsibilities, and its inadequacy will fall on the government. The outcome is the establishment of a bicameral parliament, a Senate and a Supreme Council. The Senate is in charge of both the appointment and the Rules, the Supreme Council of Budgets and Taxes. The other one. The government. There is no law on government. According to the draft amendments to the Constitution, a major novelty is that the Prime Minister, with the help of the Cabinet of Ministers, appoints the heads of district and district administrations. Not the President, but the Prime Minister. But if the Supreme Council appoints a prime minister, it is higher than the government, then the local council that is elected by the people receives an automatic higher status and the head of the local council is superior to the head of the administration appointed by the Prime Minister rather than the President. There is a mutual drag on power and disorder. Third. President. The president is elected by the people, but he has no rights, the local authorities are accountable to him, but there is nothing he can do to them, because they are appointed Prime Minister. There is an attempt by the President to change the situation, for example, by creating conditions for the dissolution of the Supreme Council, and so on and so forth. All of this must be done within five months and on the electoral day of the President’s election. What are we doing? I think it's impossible to create the source of such a terrible disorder. So I urge the deputies to realize: Where are we going? I urge Ukrainian citizens to recognize the danger and disorder that awaits them and to support the slogan: "Yes! Changes to the Constitution must go!".. Law 4105 can be the basis for change in 2006 when the new Supreme Council will be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Cloud, prepare.).
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u171	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the Law on a Proportionate System of Elections was passed to the Supreme Council. The law is necessary. But unfortunately, the adoption of this law is being used in the context of great fraud speculations and attempts to make an anti-constitutional coup in Ukraine, trying to preserve the criminal system of power in Ukraine, the oligarchy clans that have usurped it already want to legitimize their power through changes to the Constitution. So it's not about changing the system of power, it's about consolidating the current criminal system of power. This law was passed with only one goal, that the clans understood that the pro-President majority in the Supreme Council was not enough to change the Constitution, and unfortunately, the left factions went into such a conspiracy with the ruling regime. But they need an excuse, and this excuse should serve to enact yesterday’s Proportional Elections Act. Here today was a representative of a criminal group who cynically took out the name Social Democratic Party, Mr. Shurma and tried to place a billionaire Victor Medvedchuk and Mr. Dustyenko on one board. [[united]] So I want to tell him that Poroshenko is a decent businessman who produces a particular product, operates in the manufacturing field, creates jobs, rather than exports the money that has been robbed, as Medvedchuk does in the offshore zones, creating fictional organizations that have been proven in court and the national deputy of the previous three calls by Mr. Chobot. I call on Ukrainian citizens to be threatened by the Fascism of Ukraine and to strengthen the criminal oligarchy system over Ukraine is in great danger, only the will of the Ukrainian people can prevent it because of massive public protests. That's why I urge: Long live the Ukrainian Revolution, the dictatorship of the clans will not pass!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u172	Please, Sithina, prepare for the Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u173	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, Carpathia 74 constituency. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm not going to talk about politics, and I'm not going to insult anyone. Throughout the centuries talented folk masters, Ukrainian wooden temples have achieved complete architectural and artistic perfection. The uniqueness, incomprehensibility and lack of analogy in other nations puts Ukrainian church buildings at the top of the world’s artistic achievements. The wooded churches of Ukraine have some regional differences, and it gives rise to separate schools based on local traditions and the artistic specificities of their development. Ukraine's approval, as an independent state, of the socio-economic changes that have taken place in the country over the past few years has sharpened society's attention to the fate of the architectural heritage. Individual monuments, architectural units, planning structures, landscape complexes that have been preserved in whole or in part play an invaluable role in the life of modern man. The traditional architectural heritage is very vulnerable and fragile. The monuments of folk architecture are immeasurable in connection with the immeasurable material structure by which they are created and vulnerable because of the sudden and often harsh intervention of modern needs in the lives of small forces where they have been preserved. Traditional architectural heritage loses its authenticity and historical and artistic value in such cases. These are changes in the vastly spatial structure of the monument, changes in traditional materials and structures, and disruptions of the historical environment. At the same time, the economic situation in Ukraine does not allow restoration-protection work to be carried out properly. Only a selection inventory of wooden churches has been carried out, even though it has been processed properly. For two years now, the work plan has never been started. More than 2.5,000 wooden churches have been preserved in Ukraine, and more than 500 have been preserved in nearby ethnic Ukrainian lands. However, only 469 items were taken into custody. The rest are thrown into the mercy of the local authorities, in fact, for progressive destruction. To stop the destructive wave and prevent the total destruction of the rural’s historic environment, we need to focus, in our view, on solving a number of major problems. It is to create a well-known commission to coordinate the complex inventory of traditional heritage with a view to developing the methodology, distributing the territory of Ukraine, a complex of competent expedition experts and concentration of data collection. They completed the inventory of wooden churches on Ukrainian ethnographic lands. To work out brief instructions to preserve such a unique phenomenon as cultures, such as the wall image of wooden temples, and considering such monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, Chernewsky. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u175	Honourable deputies, distinguished radio listeners, Our Ukraine, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Leonid Chernovetski, Darnicke electoral district of Kiev. I want to talk to the people who listen to our broadcast and tell you some of the things that, thank God, are being sounded in Ukraine today. I am the author of the draft law on the elimination of all benefits and privileges, from the people's deputies, unfortunately, few of them we have and end up with ministries, departments and other organizations. It is a large number of sanatoriums, holiday homes, every hotel and hundreds of thousands of halls that serve the power of the property today. I think, well, I don't think so, but in the world, this issue has long been resolved in such a way that everyone from the people's electorate to any minister is obliged to go to the same hospitals, drive the same transport and enjoy the same benefits. As a result of the adoption of my bill, several billion dollars are released, well, I'm in the US dollar equivalent, which I proposed in the bill to compensate those who lost their deposits in the savings bank. Please, if any of you are not indifferent to this problem, but my mother, and many other older people, of course I ask you, write letters and the leadership of the Supreme Council, and in all factions, and mostly to me that you support me on this subject. Because the bill had not even been put to debate in the past Parliament. And in this Parliament so far, despite his support for the committee, he too, I don't think he will, because it's a problem of depriving public property of officials mainly. I would then like to say that the abolition of which is supported by the President of Ukraine, but I do not understand why today there is no indication of a strict Cabinet of Ministers to put the matter to the vote - the elimination of the value added tax. Each of you, respected pensioners, go to the pharmacy, shops and pay 20 per cent of the value added tax that goes into the pockets of 5-6 people in Ukraine who fake exports and are actually cockroaches, they live by you and by this tax. And my bill can't be put on the Supreme Council for any reason. Also, call your parents today, because right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u176	Please, Be quiet. Get ready for Novik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u177	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, I was part of a parliamentary group that met with voters in the city of Roma, where the election of the city’s head would take place. People asked, praises God that the opposition forces were consolidated and put on one contender, I am convinced that he will win, at least I want it all, if there are no big fakes, but asked why such haste was last night, this proportional night. They asked if they were decent and honest people like Alexander Alexander Moroz had already conspired with the authorities, everyone understood that the scenario that Mikola Tomenko said today, it's absolutely real, it's going to happen in the summer itself, by Alexander Alexander Moroz, and it's all going to be eliminated. Do you really trust those thimbles that have been cheated on more than once? And that's why I share Stepan Ilkovich's approach to the Cloud, and no one will change these rules except for the people. We have to do this. And I was authorized by the Ukrainian People’s Party to contact all those who listen to us to attend the Chewchenk Memorial on Wednesday, March 31, where we will begin protests. I'm sure they'll come to Kiev very much from "Our Ukraine," and I'd like us to understand that there's only one chance that we can break this system. Because there's going to be a scenario that was followed by Latin America and the United States when the landowners, because this is where Santa Odainik said what they were doing with farmers and agriculture in general. When the Iroquois and all the Aborigines were removed by various procedures, various legal schemes took over the land, and where they are today, we will remain on reservations. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what I'm talking about! And these will be the percentages of those clans that will write everything down, and here will be those cocks, as Britain says, “sing from this rooster of sweet songs.” And they will even protest, but the people will be speechless. So once again, we're meeting at 9:30 on Wednesday at Shevchenka Park, March 31. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u178	Please, Novak, get Rudzkowski ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u179	Vladimir Novak, Ukrainian Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. Everyone knows that reforms in the countryside have caused irreparable harm to the villagers. This is what a letter I received as a national deputy from the village of Lesov Grenovići Hmelnicki in the district: "Our radgosp was included in objects that are not subject to privatization. Today, the Radgosop is divided into two farms: Radgossop Lisovo-Grenivecki and Djrýmov. The income of the farm is gone, the livestock is eliminated, the cultivation of the medicinal plants is stopped, 80 percent of the land is off-limits?), or they give up on rent. Many enemies have led to the sale of property. Violations of all laws by private individuals are purchased by pigsmen, calves, sterns, cows, warehouses, garages, carpentry, dry land, poultry farm, baths. Thus, 90 percent of the main assets were cut off, and there was a hidden destruction of the farms. The land remains unsold. But it's a matter of time. Since more than half of the land has been transferred to private use, some have already set foot in rural pastures. Governmental lands in the council are administered by the Hmelnick district government. To whom and for what they are passed down to the land and to what they are passed down, the rural community does not know. The country’s deputies have shown cases of falsification of the decisions of the session for the selection and transfer of land. They have been charged with a criminal offence. But the land is still being embezzled. New masters on the lands they receive cut off the plantations. What will happen after the free trade of the earth - our land begins! These lands belong to our ancestors, who once united their tiles into a colza and created a farm that is now stretching out, watching as the peasants sold out. Their work with tears and pain asks the younger ones what you've done, why we've shed blood protecting this land from foreigners, why the hungry and the cold have labored to the blood moles of their hands, lifting agriculture from the ruins, building it up. People hoped that the land and the work invested in the development of agriculture would ensure their old age, but today’s authorities deceived us. Under these letters, more than 200 residents of the village were signed. The Constitution of Ukraine declared the ownership of the Ukrainian people to be land. What, then, is there no Ukrainian people in the villages of the village of Lisogornov? Why are they deprived of their right to rule in the great - grandfathered lands? Is there a way to solve this problem? Yes. It is legally provided for by the Kabmin decree, and therefore, at the commission of the villagers of the village of Lisov Greenitsi, I appeal to Prime Minister Janukovic to consider this matter and to resolve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u180	Please, Rudzkowski, get ready for the Mining.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u181	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday we made, I believe, an evening vote of strategic decision for the Ukrainian people. We closed the movement of the oligarchs to the Supreme Council, and yesterday we passed the Proportional Elections Act. We worked on this law for a year and a half together, I'm a socialist, Mikola Rudzikowski, Yuri Klukkowski, from Our Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ponomarenko, from the Communists, we prepared a law that was voted by most of the 255 Supreme Council. Unfortunately, our colleagues, who voted three times in favour of this law for political reasons, did not vote in favour of the law on proportional elections. But they also realize that it is the only way to remove the oligarchs from power in Ukraine and remove the shameful practice that took place during the voter bribery during the majority elections in the last parliamentary elections. Despite what we are taking steps to democratize our society, there is no improvement in the situation, because there are local barons who use power in their own interests. Mary is not counted with the position of citizens, for she is chosen, again, by the local official bureaucrat, which is not counted in the position of the simple electorate. In the city of Chernigov in particular, the mayor raises the price of hot water by 50 percent and is not counted against the position of the district administration, which recommends that the decision be overturned, not with the position of 7,000 citizens who care for the city administration and the number 30, but on Tuesday, the welfare of the city council is scheduled to cancel the disgraceful decision. The opposition must unite, regardless of the temporary contradiction to achieve its goal of removing oligarchs and oligarchic groups from power. And a good example of this is the unification of all four forces to support Alexy Volodymyrovich Billowol in Rome, in the sums of resistance against the herring. Alexy Belovel is the candidate mayor of the city of Romna and the election will take place this Sunday. I'm addressing all the voters in the city of Romna, show that you're with the opposition, show that you're with us, and we'll win along with you. We will come to the National Deputies to control that the authorities cannot falsify, but your principled position will depend on what authority we will have in Rome today and the fall of which President, either from opposition or from Leonid Kuchma. Let’s Unite! Let's win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u182	Yes, please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u183	Honourable MPs, honourable voters, have been greeted with the festival of the Ukrainian Security Service and theater staff. I also want to join these greetings and wish the Security Service not to become a theater of absurdity, the political absurdity that is being created in Ukraine right now, not to burn the theater as some political forces are burning down, putting it in the wrong direction. Because for a few months now, political life in Ukraine has really been on its head. Those who have always lacked authority are willing to give to parliament, to the government you want to carry out what is called pseudo-political and constitutional reform, to make proportional systems to elections, they promise. Raise pensions, pay, build schools and stuff. But only from September when the time of the presidential election comes. Why such generosity? It's very simple. More than 10 billion dollars have been stashed in the current 2004 budget. That's why you can be generous with the same folk account, just pick me, and tomorrow we'll take everything from you. From this point of view, if you promise from September, before the election, why can't you do it faster and lead? A gift from the Ukrainian people. Right now, not in the future. We're building Ukraine now, not somewhere in. As Olzic wrote. So Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine" and a number of professional and social organizations calls for both pensioners and students, and just workers not to wait, not to ask, but to demand, with these social requirements, to come to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on March 31st, demanding an increase in scholarships, an increase in pensions and not for those five pitiful ones, but by 25 per cent and more wages, social benefits and from April of the month, not in the far future after the election. This morning many of my fellow MPs were crying that there were no parliamentary requests. Dear voters from God, from the Valley! Yes, on these questions and on God’s account. school, and about. There's only an intermediate receipt from Kabmin. Let us ask the same Kabmin to finally allocate money for these social facilities and not leave incinerated the premises of the Kaluchi Cultural School and things like that. And I'm talking to reporters. You have a choice: to be reporters without borders with them, or reporters without honor or conscience, as many of our journalists do. March 31 requires our rights. Let's fight, let's fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u184	Please, Yavorowski, a replica. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u185	Vladimir Yavorowski. I took the word for replication and mentioned the beautiful words of my late peasant father who said: never argue with a madman, for people will never know the difference between you. Because of this, I will not argue. I'll tell you one thing, because we've got a lot of people listening to us all over Ukraine right now, not just in my district -- I don't have any problems there. I won my district by raising 70,000 votes and not actually making a penny. It's very important, and I want people to know. And I'm going to finish by reading the beautiful words, and now they're under my hand, Hayne?) for my opponent who has already fled. By the way, I didn't have any brick eggs left here for my entire political résumé, and he was already being dumped. So, I quote: a dwarf who's moved on the shoulders of a normal person usually sees beyond, especially if he's armed with a binoculars, but at this altitude, he's always gonna lack the height of his senses and his mind. Henry Hayne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-26-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the discussions you had with you today have concluded. I remind you that the national deputies from March 29 to April 2 are working in the constituencies. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on April 6. At this morning’s meeting, the Supreme Council declares itself open, fruitful, closed. Work hard in the districts. I'll see you later.
