ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:56]] Registered -409 A total of 409 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in our work, the prime minister of Ukraine, the government of Ukraine, participates in our work. Let's welcome them. Now, one minute, Your Honor. I see, I see, one minute. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Conciliation Council of the MP factions and groups decided on the schedule of meetings for March 16-19 and the procedure for dealing with individual issues for this period. You have a list of questions before the schedule of meetings. You have a schedule for Tuesday. So we have every reason to move on. But since I can see that we have a desire to express our position with the procedure, please write down five minutes of procedural questions. Please sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Nestor Schufric, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] A total of 45 national deputies have been announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a balanced decision was made yesterday at the Conciliation Council, which in my opinion is consistent with modern realities, and we must proceed as quickly as possible to review the agenda and listen to information from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u3	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think that yesterday's decision by the Conciliation Commission is normal in that we should, on the one hand, listen to what has happened in a year, what has not happened, what problems remain and what needs to be determined, together, what should be done by the Government in the coming year. I think that if we keep that logic with you, it'll be okay, because with only a government programme, we can understand what's done, what's not done and what's to be done. I therefore fully support the proposal made by the previous speaker that we should now begin to discuss this issue. After discussing it, voting and understanding, and telling the people of Ukraine what we are going to do, where we are going, and why we are doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u6	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Please give the floor to the head of the Ukrainian Republican Party, the Sobor, Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u7	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a very disturbing situation today. Victor Fedorovich, thank you for your presence. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, now instead of supporting a local self - government that can't get on his feet, there's a campaign to destroy him. Yesterday in Ternopol, the tax police occupied practically, blocked, sealed up the city council of Ternopil and searched. I don't know who gave the order to the tax police to do the search. Today, the village council was sealed by special police units in the Kharkiv region of the U.S.A. The same is being done today in Balgrad Odessa, Vasilkovi Kyivsky, Tokyo’s Zaporozhye region. I don't know, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, who's being created, and who's giving the command to include force structures to deal with local self-government today. I ask the Supreme Council to respond and make a specific proposal. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, give the commission, today the Supreme Council will support this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u9	Microphone, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u10	The committee of Moses and the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government today gather together with the forces and still figure out who's giving the team, what's going on, and why local self-government is being persecuted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, if you have no objection, let's make this decision, give the commission to the Committee of Vladimir, which is headed by Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, Vladimir Stretović and Anatoly Matvienko. With the participation of representatives today, the leaders of the power structures to study the matter and to prepare written information for the Supreme Council in this regard in the strictest terms. Is there no objection? Yes. So prepare this assignment, I'll sign it in writing. Please, Yuri Solomatin is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u12	Thank you. Please give the floor to the leader of the faction and leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine-Peter Simonck.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u13	Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u14	Simonenko is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the events that have swept all over Europe, the whole world that took place last week, unfortunately, tragic events in Spain. We Communists do not insist for the first time, when we make responsible decisions, first of all, on using those requirements and relying on the demands of our people in Ukraine. We state that we will insist and ask you to support this Thursday's draft law that we Communists have passed and recall our military contingent from Iraq so that Ukraine will not be and will be at war with Iraq and will not be responsible for all that is happening there, the blood and the death of its fellow citizens. We Communists insist on urgent consideration of this issue and recalling our soldiers from Iraq. And the second problem is, I'd like to take a look at the program today so that we can first ratify.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u15	I ask the Secretariat to provide information immediately under the European Social Charter, because it has been called upon in the name of the Conciliation Council to send us this document as a matter of urgency for the proper consideration and decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u16	Semenyuk, Soccer faction. Please pass the word Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u17	Yuri Lucenko, PPU faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u18	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine insists that after the Prime Minister's speech he be given the opportunity to ask questions and that he be given the floor to the heads of committees and factions. Secondly, I ask the distinguished Prime Minister to stop immediately in his statement what the government is planning to do after the situation of the terrorist attack on Spain. We insist that the government does listen to the demands of the public, our people withdraw an army of Ukrainian troops from Iraq, do not spend 98 million dollars, as planned in the current budget. We urge the answer to this question, which concerns the entire Ukrainian society in the course of listening to today’s government program. All other figures will not be fulfilled, as the practice has shown, namely, the life and death of our fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Two factions, the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the bloc of July Timoshenko, appealed to the chairman for 30 minutes, that is to say, to call a recess. Maybe we can propose this algorithm for our action, and I would ask the factions to speak immediately with the relevant information, for which they wanted to take a break, and we could continue our work. Is there no objection? Please, Victor Mikhailovich, who will be speaking? Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u20	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Radio Hearers! Statement by the faction "Our Ukraine", the Viktor Yushchenka Block and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "Nearlanders, today the current authorities are in grave violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in their efforts to bring local self-government to its knees. After all, the choice of landowners and city heads, their status of independence, is a bone in the throat of clan dictatorship. The events that are taking place in Mukachevo and Ternopolis today are the abuse of authority over the will of citizens, the letter and the spirit of laws and historical traditions. Mukachevo is under illegal rule today. At the same time, tax authorities are prosecuting representatives of the elected citizens of the city of Ternopol. At the same time, the latest information from the Kharkiv People’s Council of Novodolas shows that the Ukrainian Security Service is also involved. The authorities show total contempt for the judicial system and the decisions handed down by the courts of all levels that have confirmed the legality of the mayor’s election of Mukachevo Vasil Pítovka. Nevertheless, today the city is headed by a bank governor, a member of the SDPU. We, members of the "Our Ukraine" faction and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, claim to be responsible for the lawlessness that takes place with regard to local self-government bodies, not just those who issue illegal orders and ignore judicial decisions, but also those who carry out criminal orders. We focus on the fact that today the Henprosecutor has been involved in a campaign of repression against local self-government, which has not yet responded in any way to the violation of the Constitution and legislation in Mukachevo and Ternopol. Why do the judicial authorities of Ukraine remain inactive, who have not taken any steps to determine the decisions of the court and to enforce these decisions and to renew the position of the legally elected head of Mukachevo? The factions "Our Ukraine" and "The Block of July" Timoshenko address the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvina, requiring that a group of national deputies be sent to the head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Zinchenko, to be headed by the head of the commission of inquiry, Yuri Orobac and the heads of committees, Vladimir Moisik, Anatolia Matvienka, Vasil Onopenka, Mikli Tomenka, Vladimir Stretovich, to study the situation that took place in Mukachev and Ternopol. Only direct interference with the situation of Ukrainian national deputies can put an end to the crime of destruction in Ukraine of local self - rule. In Zacarpatha, as in Ukraine, the authorities began repression against independent media. The number of Ukrainian media outlets has been added to the radio company "M-studio" and "Radio FM" of Carpathians, so we insist on voting on draft regulation 4275, which will impose a moratorium on funds. closing the media and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, please, let's continue our work. And let's do it this way, maybe we can move on to ensure a calm and balanced rhythm. I ask your permission to give Alexander Zinchenko an assignment to study the subject. If it is necessary to form a group, let them look at all the details on the spot and then inform us of the results of such a work. Here was a proposal for the composition of this task force. I think Alexander Alexiyovich should be determined as to the final composition of the working group. Please, a line. Shufrich. Only then let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today I would like to add some information about what is happening in Mukachev. The city head is a deputy governor who temporarily tries to get a normal life in a city of about 100,000 people. With regard to the court's decisions, I would like to inform the public, the people's deputies, the members of the government, that Nuser Ernest Ernestovich, the mayor of Mukachev, was brutally removed on Saturday, who actually won the previous election. That's how we have democracy in Mukachev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, time. I'm running out of time for replicas. All of it. Please go to Alexander Alexiyovich Zinchenko, work in the task force, get everyone involved. Dear colleagues! You have a schedule. First of all, we have the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: "Coherence, efficiency, responsibility." I am voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda in accordance with the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 5256-P. Once again, I put to the vote the question of the programme of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility". Please vote. [[10:15:12]] For 228 Decision taken. Gmir's national MP, please microphone. By factions, please explain. Please, the people's deputy of the gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u24	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to find out the legal status of the mysterious document for which Parliament is invited to vote today. The fact is that the programme is for one year. Under the Constitution this November, under the current Constitution, the Government places its powers before the newly elected President. If changes to the Constitution were to be made, the same would be done to Parliament. How do we adopt a government programme for a year that is clearly not going to work for a year? Or is there anyone who knows something that the MPs don't know? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u25	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u26	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. Dear Victor Fedorovich! You're introducing another program. With the first program, you stood on the stand and asked about overcoming poverty in Ukraine. So there's something that's not clear in Chernigovishka. At first, the governor raised prices by 20 percent for utilities, in some regions by 50, and then the mayor increased the price of cold water by 50 percent. Not for ten, not seven. He was the Chief of the Supreme Council in Chernigow, and the governor was associated with him, and the governor canceled the price hikes, and there was no administration. I'm asking you, give the proper order to the appropriate ministries, count these prices. Well, the government and the President have to pay attention, it's still 300,000. The man lives. They're all our constituents, we won't share.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, let us speak according to procedure. Assadchev, then Washunik. And then the question, when the Prime Minister speaks, will be able to ask these questions, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u28	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm really on the same page. In view of the fact that we have long gone "according to concepts" and not to the Constitution, the Rules, I would like at least to be given an answer to such questions, strictly procedural. The Bible’s Word, 5 / 22 1 The Rules indicate that the Supreme Council approves the Government’s programme of activities for the period of its mandate. That is, when we approved the past programme, it was approved in accordance with this paragraph of the Rules for the period of approval of the government. So I say, what's the status of that old program then? What will be the status of the new program? Whether these two programs will be executed simultaneously. These are really procedural issues, so we can talk about this right now, because it doesn't fit into the rules of the Constitution anymore or the rules of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u29	National Deputy Vasjunik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the effort of a group of directors of a particular genre to turn parliament into a circus arena, and in considering such an important issue as how the government’s program of action can be successful today. What's more, we want to surprise, excuse me, deceive the audience, excuse me, our citizens, and show them not two acts, but a full show, a one-act show with one kind of circus art, that is, juggling. In this regard, I have an offer to adopt the following rules of procedure. First. The head of the Supreme Council announces the matter and gives the floor to the Prime Minister. The other one. The Prime Minister announces the name of the Programme, reports the materials given and asks Parliament to support it. Third. A ghastly applause. Four. The head of the Supreme Council, taking into account the variety.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, let's not, in fact, let's not croak. If you're such a big humorist, make this decision, we'll show, we'll publish, so that everyone can see how you're taking Ukraine's development issues seriously. Please, National Deputy Kosinov. Viacheslav Kirilenko and all, the last. It's already been three minutes and time, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u32	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Please give the word to John Vassionk so that he can finish making his proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u33	Please, Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u34	Thank you. I'm done. A ghastly applause. Four. The head of the Supreme Council, taking into account the various positive experiences of the two - hand vote, suggests that we recognize the ghastly applause for the unanimity support of the Government’s Programme. Both the fifth and the last part, the saved part, should be used for community service. And you can announce a Bolshevik-Communist Saturday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts here. Let's move on to our work. May I have your attention, fellow officers? The Committee, the Main Committee, the Committee on Economic Policy proposes that the issue be addressed at the same time. The first question is about the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, "Discovery, Efficiency, Efficiency" and its implementation. And second, about the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility." To that end, we need to make the right decision. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the proposal. Taking into account the decisions of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment of March 15, 2004 and in accordance with article 3.2. 3 The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been put on schedule for the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 March 2004 on the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, “Openness, effectiveness, efficiency” and its implementation, on the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, “Coherence, effectiveness, responsibility”, to be considered simultaneously at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 March 2004 with a decision taken after the discussion of these issues. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[10:22:46]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now in line with the Rules. Two suggestions were made regarding the procedure for dealing with the matter. First offer from the committee. Please listen carefully, dear fellows. For the Prime Minister's report, up to 30 minutes. Answers to Prime Minister's questions in 20 minutes. For a co-report, the committee's first deputy head is up to 10 minutes. [[First Deputy will speak from the committee]] For performances, for discussion from factions and committees, up to five minutes each of the speakers. Just an hour and a half. Next for the national MPs, up to three minutes, 30 minutes. One minute, I'll put all the proposals to the vote, I'll put them up, dear colleagues. The closing word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine is up to 10 minutes. That's the first offer. There's a second proposal that's been made. The author is Victor Pinzenik. This procedure is proposed. The Prime Minister's report is 45 minutes. The answer to the questions of the national MPs is 45 minutes. A speech by the heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the heads of the MP factions, up to five minutes for every performance, no time to limit. People's deputies' speeches are up to three minutes, no time to limit, the Prime Minister's closing word to 15 minutes. According to the order of arrival, please give Victor Mikhajlovich the floor to reason on the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies and members of the government! Judging from what's going on right now, yeah, maybe we don't get high and put a document to the vote immediately without consideration? Well, what difference does it make? We're in a hurry about a document that defines the fate of Ukraine, we're not allowing the MPs who took part in the preparation of the program to vote, to express their position on the program. Please tell me we don't have anything to talk about. The failure of agricultural policy, the concealment of the budget's income, the reduction of the minimum wage, the tax horde, and we're together on these issues for about an hour and a half? The faction of "Our Ukraine" suggests that this issue be a subject of serious discussion, and it takes a full plenary day to address it. Give the floor to the Prime Minister, co-reports, speeches to all committee heads and speeches by Ukrainian national deputies There's a draft order on your hands number 5255.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! By procedure, please, Valery Assadchev. Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u38	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I turn to you again: we are voted again by the so-called "joints" and the Tolstoy, and the Clovis. I know that last plenary week you've given a mandate to the Rules Committee, I think that he would have had to decide that question and should have voted on it once already, because it's not entirely valid when the members of the government themselves are already voting in favour of their own government programme. We still have no changes to the Constitution, and the Constitution is in force today. Let us resolve this question somehow before making appropriate, important, responsible decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! I've already informed you that the committee is considering these issues. On Wednesday, he will make the right decision, and until we deprive them of their parliamentary authority. Yuri Carmazin, please. Dear colleagues, let's work better, it's not a discussion yet. I can see it, I can see it!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you a question. And I'm talking to both you and the committees and the government. You asked the question like this: and we have in the Supreme Council in general such a way that the committees tell everyone they want. Let's, in the end, ask this question: there's a record of the committee's decision, where some problems are acknowledged, and it's assigned to report the committee's opinion, which is the result of the vote, as it is said, then we give; and so -- we just take the time, we put other deputies into unequal conditions, we violate the same terms of the Rules, because the Rules say that any MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u41	Honorable National MPs, distinguished colleagues. I want to say that I do everything in accordance with the Rules, I put all the questions to the vote. There are two proposals for a special order of consideration. The first proposal was a profile committee, the second written proposal was made by the People’s Deputy Pinzenik, Victor Pinzenik. After a brief exchange of thoughts, I put it all to the vote. Because normally on the Rules of Procedure, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you know, 45 minutes. But 45 minutes on that question is just absurd. So we have to define a special procedure. And this will be done by voting. If we do not decide by vote, we will work as usual on the ordinary issue provided for in the Rules. Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u42	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We all know that the government program was only given last week, in the middle of the week, and the committees haven't really discussed it. I don't know what the committee's going to be talking about, and I don't know what they're going to be talking about, but they're going to be there for an hour and a half. It seems to me that more would have to be given the opportunity to speak to the Ukrainian people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u43	National Sulkowski, then Andrew School and all, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You know, once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's going to be a little bit of a chat and there's absolutely no positive ground. So many of us have come to realize that even many national MPs are not comfortable, that a positive shift has been made by today’s government. Clearly, this is painful for some national MPs. And that's why I'm making an offer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to stop this speculation and proceed to the scheduled order of this morning's session. Because if there is still such a procedure, there will be a resurgence of injustice. The previous acting former vice-premier, I mean, he's fighting so hard to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u45	Andrew School, please. All right, time's up. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to pay attention, this is where the previous speaker said about the huge success of the government. I'd like to, as a national MP, not within 45 minutes of being taken by a professional committee or an hour and a half to hear about this progress, but I want to devote the entire sessional day to listen, to analyze, to understand how great the success is that I don't see it in my own district. As I go to the villages, to the towns, I see a practical breakdown of a situation that I do not know how to save and how to save. Therefore, it is essential that all national deputies have the opportunity to express themselves so that this is not limited to the heads of the committees. Because I'm not, by the way, convinced that all these committees have expressed their position on this issue, whether they've all been able to sit down. So I stress that the consideration of this issue should be broad and should be devoted to the entire sessional day today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! It's so practical and it's going to work out, as long as we're going to do the distance, it's so practical and it's going to work all day. Last Volodymyr Stretovich and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u48	Vladimir Stretović, faction of our Ukraine, Christian-Democratic Union. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I point out that today we are making a responsible decision for the fate of Ukraine. And so the program is called, which is going to be proposed -- sequence, efficiency, responsibility. So why are we allowing people who are not in the room to vote against the Constitution? I'm looking at the faction of the region, 67 equal, but it's sitting on exactly 53 people. Where are the 14 deputies? Where are the deputies who are co-sponsors today? Give an assignment to the Standing Committee, and let him verify who is today meeting two positions contrary to article 78, and should not actually be here in the Supreme Council. Hospitals, vacations, we'll see that the vote didn't take place today. Then who are we kidding? Why is this propaganda with the Ukrainian people, who are represented by the Supreme Council. If we continue to stand on this, let's split up and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote, I'm going to read to them information that's not available for good reasons, and as far as the accomplices are concerned, we discussed this at the Conciliation Council yesterday. I don't think it's necessary to break this subject again now. I, my fellow dignitaries, ask the secretariat to check, because we voted in favour of these issues, with a broadcast of these issues to ensure that the broadcast is broadcast. I ask Alexander Alexiyovich to verify that at least the presence of the government will allow the voice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be broadcast. Please check. Dear colleagues, once again, there are two suggestions regarding the procedure for dealing with the matter. In the coming order, I'll put them to the vote. Please listen carefully. A profile committee proposal, 30 minutes for a report by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, 20 minutes for a co-rapporteur to the First Vice-President of the Economic Policy Committee, 10 minutes for talks from factions and committees to 5 minutes for one speech, 30 minutes for the presentation of Ukrainian national deputies, up to 3 minutes for each speech. Just 30 minutes. The closing word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine is 10 minutes. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:34:08]] For 243 Decision taken. There is no need to vote on the second proposal. I invite you to the rostrum of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Please check the broadcast again. I've been told that on UT-1 and on Ukrainian radio on the first channel, there's a broadcast going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Dearly beloved! At the beginning of my speech, on behalf of the government, I would like to thank the Supreme Council for the year of fruitful cooperation. Those words, I assure you, are usually devoid of formalism for similar situations. The style of cooperation that was established between us a year ago deprives me of the need for ritual compliments and at the same time allows me to address you, honourable national MPs, at least as political partners. And to most people, it's like political contemporaries. All previous governments thanked the National Deputies for their help and criticism, but more often all of this took place in an atmosphere of opposition and political separation in the branches of government. And that's why. No previous government team has been associated with the Supreme Council of the Alliance of Parliamentary-Governmental Coalitions and a shared responsibility for the state of affairs in the state. No previous government was formed on the basis of a coalition majority and was guided in its own work by principles and ideas approved by a special parliamentary government agreement. Today, there is virtually no rigid limit between the work of government officials and the work of parliamentarians. The Cabinet of Ministers has never worked in such close contact with legislators as today. Of course, it's clear that first of all I'm talking about a coalition majority. We are divided by branches of authority, but we are united by a shared responsibility and a shared political goal. And last year, when it came to solving issues that were devoid of acute political coloring, the Supreme Council did not fall apart into majority, and the minority started to have a constructive dialogue, and the issue prevailed as soon as possible to solve the current problem. In fact, this should be the case in the parliamentary-presidential republic, whose model we have been implementing in Ukraine for a year, without waiting for the changes declared by the political reform of the system of government to be enshrined in the Constitution. Of course, I would have sinned against the truth if I had assured you that the relationship between government and the Supreme Council was completely cloudless. This is not the case anywhere and never, but the one who walks is on the road. And I am convinced that in the future, European political standards, including relations between parliament and government, will become imperative for us. I think I'm going to express my opinion to most of the audience, thanking the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchmi, for his political initiative. Without the active assistance of the Head of State, his political will, the coalition government would not be able to work at the necessary level of efficiency, but, therefore, the socio-economic achievements of the State in 2003 would be much less modest. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Cabinet of Ministers presented the program "Discovery, Effectiveness, Performance" last year, some of the audience in this room took this document as a one-year letter, whereby the government wanted to get indulgence for one year. But chach is the best judge. And I can no doubt point out that the Program has played a role as a guide for the Cabinet of Ministers during 2003. In this regard, I am not exaggerating when I say that a year the government has been working and stockpiling on a lot more assets than liabilities. On what basis is this statement based? Answer me. First of all, on numbers and facts, as you know, are the most stubborn things. Yes, the main indicator of economic growth, the growth in gross domestic product, made up 9.3 percent, significantly higher than the average over the previous three years and the programming orientation last year, 6 percent, the growth rate of investment to the capital is close to 28 percent, three times higher than GDP, which is a vivid indication of the transition to an innovative development model. Foreign direct investment growth for the first time in years of independence exceeded $1 billion and made up $1.2 billion. The growth rate of industrial production was 2.5 times higher than that of 2002. The internal consumer market has grown markedly. The turnover of retail trade increased by 20 percent. The rapid increase in machine manufacturing is 36 percent, in construction 23, in the food industry is 20, mostly in the internal market, and it is also evidenced by its dynamic development. We have made full use of a favorable external conjuncture. The increase in the volume of external trade was nearly five times higher than the planned rate and was 24 percent. For the first time in independence, the 2003 budget was successfully implemented and its revenue plan was set at 3.2 percent. The budget for health care, spiritual and physical development, increased by 23 percent in education, one and a half times. The nation’s gold reserves increased 1.6 times. The extent of lending to the economy has increased by one and a half times, including investment activities, to 1.8. In doing so, long - term loans increased by 2.6 and the rate dropped by an average of 14 percent. We have fully met with you, distinguished national MPs, the FATF requirements to fight against the laundering of dirty money. Canceled sanctions, Ukraine excluded from blacklist. During the year, the world’s leading rating agencies doubled the rating of Ukraine. And the main economic growth has created conditions for significantly improving the welfare and quality of life of citizens. Although speaking ahead of today in this room, I want to say, in this direction much more needs to be done. Increases in pensions, social benefits, and the provision of military service to students’ scholarships. Last year, the average wage per country grew by 23 percent, and in the fiscal area, the average wage rose by 44 percent. Real steps have been taken to address the painful problem of paying off debts from wages, scholarships, social assistance, and so forth, which have been accumulated over the years. Budget debt for budget workers and social assistance for families with children has been fully repaid. By 15 percent or 344 million, corporate debt has been reduced. In particular, I would like to point out that last year a practical implementation of pension reform began. All pensions have been recalculated according to earnings and employment, which has not yet been done in any SND country with only newly assigned pensions. As a result, the pension has increased significantly to almost 3.5 million pensioners. Last week, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a 12 - percent increase in all pensions, which was increased by only 4 percent after the last count. What is behind such fundamental changes? Not some Ukrainian know-how, but what was to be done a long time ago, I'm talking about establishing an elementary coordination between the government and the Supreme Council. It was the agreement on the solidarity of responsibility between the parliamentary majority and the Cabinet of Ministers that allowed us to get to the normal level of cooperation, in the operational regime, to solve urgent problems. So I want to be honest with you, colleagues, the success of the program is our common victory. But I don't want to turn my speech into a winning relationship, because there are still tens and hundreds of unresolved tactical and strategic problems in the state. So let me be clear, last year there were mistakes, sometimes, and rather saddened that the government had to review its views on a number of issues. At the same time, I would like to point out that these calculations did not generally affect the positive scenario that the Ukrainian economy developed in 2003, but this does not mean that we in the government see them as a sad coincidence. First of all, I think it's a mistake in principle that we've often been able to keep pace with economic events, while Ukraine needs a forward-looking forward-looking approach. To this end, there is a need to increase the efficiency, development of economic and social development forecasts for direct government planning, implementation of long-term sectoral and regional development programmes, industry and cross-sectoral balance, demand and supply. Particular attention should be paid to minimizing the negative effects of Ukraine’s accession to WTO. We need to answer a number of important questions in advance, namely, are we ready to compete on an equal footing with other countries both in the outside and in the internal markets; how much are we willing to take advantage of the free world market? The process of integration into world economic space is necessary and inevitable. He promises our country new economic prospects and opportunities for development. But to enter the world market, we have to be well-armed methodologically and institutionally to win a tough competition. The second one is said to have failed the government more than ever. At times, we looked forward to the administrative weights of the administration, not giving sufficient attention to the development of the market infrastructure of agriculture. Clearly, we were not original here. The state apparatus didn't have the idea yesterday that market management mechanisms were primarily needed by entrepreneurs, and the state was the queen of command administration. However, the grain crisis, although mostly artificial, has shown what neglect of market infrastructure, the lack of a future stock market, and a transparent grain market have led to this. Clearly, if all the mechanisms were to work effectively, there would be no crisis in the country. And all the previous governments were working on creating the market system, but they weren't working. And we all remember how difficult it was for us to get out of this situation in this room. That's why today we're saying that the developed market institutions system is an important and most effective mechanism of the state's influence on the economy and that it's the principle of government and parliament. The next thing I would like to stress is the lack of our state's ability to protect abroad the interests of domestic business. Unlike our neighbors, the same Russia or Poland, we often just see a competitive struggle between our businesses in the external markets. And the government is set up to make a radical change in this situation, because in today's market conditions, the value of authorities as administrative, analytical, planning institutions is increasing considerably. As a result, we will continue to rebuild the work of the executive branch so that its decision will step forward and stimulate further economic distortions in the country. Speaking on behalf of the government, I never take my responsibility personally. On the contrary, life has trained me to demand more from myself than I demand from my subordinates, so I am fully responsible for all the mistakes my government has made. Because I understand very well that we are both accountable to the political forces in Parliament that have put us both before the people. Dear National Deputies! I'm sure that these economic data are quite clear about the fact that a new socio-economic situation has now emerged in Ukraine. We've reached a significant rate of GDP growth and industrial production, reduced the country's dependence on imports in areas where our industry is competitive. The internal market for goods and services is gradually filling. Foreign investors are actively interested in Ukraine. We see a steady growth in exports when we're under control of inflation. In particular, I would like to point out that the Ukrainian corporate sector has been significantly strengthened in recent years. National companies actively conquer the outside world, learn to work on the world market without intermediaries. It is also very important that Ukrainian companies have recently begun to take the highest form of export -- capital exports. All of this shows that we are ready to contact the global economy by its rules. This list of new economic features can continue. However, I think it is enough to conclude that after the crisis, in the logic of which the state has been building its own household policy since 1998, it has ended, and today we can rightly say that Ukraine is entering a new stage of development. He demands of the state, of us with you, the Honourable People's Deputies, of new economic approaches, of new responses to the challenges of time. What should be the socio-economic significance of this new period, the creation of an appropriate Ukrainian state? For me it's obvious: first of all, we have to turn the macroeconomic achievements of the economy into the macroeconomic gains of Ukrainian citizens. At the previous stage, the main objective of economic policy was the gross macroeconomic growth. And that's understandable. In order to push the paralyzed crisis economy from a dead point of view, it was primarily necessary to force it to grow on the basis that exists, using the available resources. And this is the stage we've overcome. Today, it's not about quantity, it's about quality, it's about economic growth, and above all, it's about social quality. I fully agree, and I repeat, with the criticism that comes primarily from the left-wing force camp regarding the unjust redistribution of national income among the population. Indeed, it is in vain to speak of macroeconomic upliftment when many live in distress. It is in vain to knock on the EU door when Ukrainians are even a few steps behind their neighbors from Central and Eastern Europe. It should be remembered that this concept includes not only wages and pensions but also housing, education, medicine, ecology, and many other things. The time has come to break up the vicious circle of poverty that plagues the people. I may deny that this has been said before, that it was promised by previous governments, but actually beautiful promises remained only good wishes. I can only answer that with numbers and facts. Today's state of the Ukrainian economy, the current figures on budget revenues, the level of inflation and the state of the internal market allow me to say that the dramatic growth in prosperity in the coming years is not a utopia, but a real goal. I could also answer the charges, as if the autumn elections were pushing the power to engage in social rhetoric. I always felt that there was no better argument to support an idea than to explain its positive effect. So the analysis of the macroeconomic situation shows that one of the main factors that today hinders further growth in the economy is poverty. Its main features are the slow rise in social stockpiling, the consumer inequities of millions who are forced to count copies, labour emigration caused by low wages, and others. So overcoming this problem today is a major guarantee of sustained economic growth. By the way, this is what the people expect of the authorities. No one can deny that today in Ukraine there are all signs of socio-economic stability, that people's lives are gradually improving, that from the constant fears of possible economic events, people have moved to the expectation of new reforms and the further increase in prosperity. As a result, we have set out these tasks as the basis for the new 2004 Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action, which has been called "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility." The new programme was conceived as a logical extension of the previous parliamentary-government coalition in 2003. That's why her name starts with the word "sequence." In particular, I want to point out that this program of action has been developed by the government in cooperation with the National Deputies, and we have also consulted with a wide range of public organizations and trade unions. At the same time, I would like to thank many scientists, especially the National Academy of Sciences, whose suggestions and criticism we listen to very carefully. The Policy and Solidarity Economic Strategy, contained in the Agreement between the Government and the Parliamentary Coalition and other instruments, particularly the Agreement on the Establishment of a Parliamentary-Government Coalition, is an ideal foundation for the Programme. In line with this, the main thrust of the Programme is to significantly strengthen the social component of public policy. To that end, we are going to increase the social cost of the budget to almost 60 percent. We are tasking ourselves to significantly increase the cost of labour in the structure of GDP and to increase the minimum wage to 237 dollars already in September of this year. In general, wages should increase by at least 15 percent. During the year, at least 600,000 new jobs will be created. The important task of the program is to accelerate economic growth on an innovation and investment basis. In particular, this year we expect GDP to increase by 9.5 percent. At this rate, capital growth will continue to exceed GDP growth. And foreign investment will go up to $1.5 billion a year. In addition to stimulating the growth of the economy, the priority for us is the development of the cultural and spiritual sphere and the scientific and educational potential of the state. And finally, on this basis, we need to ensure that Ukraine's integration into the world community is accelerated. At the full scale of these tasks, we don't need to come up with complex schemes today to do what's planned. Rather, we need to bring together the existing elements of social policy, the gains of economic growth, and make them work in sync. But whatever economic plans and projects we have today, their fate will depend directly on the political climate in which they will be implemented. The experience of the parliamentary-government coalition's annual cooperation has shown that together we can overcome obstacles that our predecessors would not be able to overcome. Because now, more than ever, it is necessary to further consolidate the efforts of the executive and legislative branches of government on the basis of a solid political responsibility and active cooperation. A key development in this direction will certainly be the change to the Constitution in the conversion of Ukraine into a parliamentary-presidential republic. The introduction of these changes to the basic law will consolidate positive developments in the political system and minimize the risk of a return to the already surviving stage of the opposition of the branches of government. I believe there is enough political will in the Supreme Council. It's about time we get this thing over with. There's another point in our cooperation that I'd like to pay attention to. Dear colleagues, let us not be afraid of tomorrow. The Ukrainian politician has become too immersed in the presidential election and has lost sight of the ability to see the world beyond the electoral agenda. After all, winter will surely come in autumn, and then summer. Waiting for elections is a continuous process. The presidential election is followed by parliamentary elections and so on. Therefore, we do not have the right to allow the necessary national decisions to be sacrificed to a temporary electrical conjuncture. The government has not done and will not do cheap populism by trying to raise ratings with unrealistic promises and risky steps that highlight the positive developments in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, I ask you to support our work programme. The government understands that it contains some flaws, but we will be happy to correct them with your help. The one who does nothing is not mistaken. However, we are confident that the programme fully meets the needs of the State and society and the prospects for Ukraine's further progress through reforms and the ideas of integration into the global world. In short, it is characterized by a sequence in increasing the growth and modernization of the Ukrainian economy. Effectiveness in organizing the work of executive power with regard to the implementation of state policy. Finally, the responsibility for the government’s sustained commitment to do so is primarily to improve the well - being of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u51	Yes, Your Honor, let's move on to the Prime Minister's questions. Please sign up for the question. We agreed for 20 minutes, and we voted for it, asking questions. On the board, please explain the names of the national MPs who are registered. The People's Deputies of Veretennikov, the faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u52	Verethennikov, the faction of industrialists, entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine. Dear Victor Fedorovich! I looked closely at the program, but we only got it in the morning. It's a good thing that the first is protecting the population, and the first is that the lives of the people must be increased. But it's like that in general, what kind of questions will the government be dealing with to raise the lives of the people? And that's where the pension benefits come from, because what we got there is six or 6.50 pensions there, I don't think it satisfies our Ukrainian people. As you are Prime Minister on these matters. These questions will be resolved by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, in my report, I stressed that the fruitful cooperation of the government and parliament in many cases depends on how we do our work to reform our economy. As industry works, agriculture will work, and how our entrepreneurs work depends on the filling of the income part of the budget. It's part of the work of many groups. And when we talk about gains, first of all, I realize that all the gains, like the calculations, they belong to a great team in our country of Ukraine. It depends on how we create conditions for our businesses and how they work in the external, internal markets and so on. So when we were doing the budget last year with you, we made a lot of positive decisions in this room. And I emphasized that in my report, and we are grateful for that. And it's very important that they do it at the right time. And where there were calculations, well, they say they're used to looking in our country for always, as they say, extremes. The extreme has always been the government. Well, whatever they say, as decided, so be it. But in answer to your question, I want to say that we increased our salary last year by 23 percent. It's very important. The wages of budget workers increased by 32 percent. Already this year, we have decided to increase wages in the budget area by 11.8 percent since March 1. So I'm not going to emphasize, because these numbers, they annoy some, and I'm really glad that we did. I would like to point out that this has worked with you. As far as pension reform is concerned. It's not calculated for one year, and the first steps we've taken, they say they have both their positives and their negatives. As for the negative, I'll start with that. Indeed, there was very little increase in minimum pensions by 4 percent, and the government, taking this into account, took the first step and found ways of raising minimum pensions by 12 percent from January 1st this year. This decision was made last week, and it will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u54	Basil Nadrag. People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u55	Dear Victor Fedorovich, one of the sickest people in the meeting, and you probably know that, and apparently we're the best at housing and utilities. Unfortunately, both the heat and the water and the transport and all that's involved, not to mention the state of the housing fund, is a painful topic. Regrettably, the solution to this problem is very often seen only in increasing demand from residents for timely payment, for everything else can be cut off before the gas can be cut. I have a question. Tell me, please, if we ask the public only and do not ask the question that the publicists themselves should consider each penny more carefully, use it more effectively, and ultimately answer with their roubles for failing to provide a solution to the problem to the population, is that not one way to solve the problem? Because so much of the population is not objective, it's just unfair after all. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u56	If you look at this problem on a global scale, there is this problem in almost all post - Soviet countries. Housing reform is a problem that's out of date, and it's mature. Therefore, distinguished national MPs! All that is now being done in the State in reforming the housing and utility system is a very painful issue. Today, separate pilot projects are under way. We have the opportunity to hear this question here, in Parliament, openly and transparently, and the government will report what has been done positively in this direction. But I'm sure the negative is much more than the positive. So in answer to that question, I'm going to answer that. That there are many rights today in the regions to deal with these issues, but regions today have very limited resources to deal with these issues. And I'm sure that the next step that we're going to be considering with you in this room very soon is administrative reform and the transfer of appropriate powers to the region. You and I, your respectable colleagues, have to work out the rules of the game, and you have to be able to reform housing and utilities in the region, give money, and it's going to be a big help from the center of the regions. That's the main thing. As far as the government's concerned. I'm a district manager who's never forgotten what's going on in the regions, and as I've been doing in the area where I've been working, I'm sure there's a fundamental change to be made. If we're supposed to pinch the consumer, we're going to suffer with you, because we're all users of these utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u57	Vladimir Vojsz, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Gregory to the Cauldron.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u59	Gregory Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear Victor Fedorovich, there are a few details. The program states: effective steps to improve the inefficient structure of the central executive system. Some of the positions of the program are contradictory by the content, interpretation, and effect of possible application. But I'm convinced that in general the government's agenda is another consistent and conscious step towards continuing economic reconstruction and creating conditions for improving the well-being of people. The programme includes increasing investment projects and concentrating them on development priorities. What is new is that the program was carried out by leading scientists in Ukraine. The government is taking on an enormous task of increasing GDP by 9.5 percent. And the government needs to be able to implement the plans that were launched last year. I'm offering to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u61	Yeah, it's a wish, we'll consider it. Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u62	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. Dear Victor Fedorovich! Well, I'm sure you want to do a lot of things, but please tell me, why haven't you been able to protect those members of the government who, not in words, were actually defending the national interests of Ukraine? I mean also Deputy Prime Minister Hajduk and recently released Sergey Jermilov, who has done a great deal indeed, defending Ukraine's national interests. And the second question is, is it not your concern that the speedy Fascism in Ukraine is taking place and the government is not responding? Well, the third question is: Victor Fedorovich, wouldn't you like to be President without a circumcised mandate? Why do you protect political adventure from what you call a so-called adventure?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u63	Please, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u64	Thank you, Stepan Ilkovich. First of all, the human resources policy that was implemented by the government this year was transparent. And no decision has been taken by the government, as they say, “under duress”. We've discussed every decision with the factions, discussed these issues on the government, analyzed them. Thus, when commenting on the release of some government officials, they were not accidental. And these decisions were made consciously, by the people's deputies present in this room, by the factions, by the government and by the President, for which I thanked the President today. Indeed, we have been given this opportunity during this year to pursue human resources policy. So state and national interests, they protected all members of the government by means of parliament, with the help of all those present here in the room. And we made a lot of decisions together, and the government made them. That's the first one. As far as the city is concerned. That's why and for us to have more balanced branches of power, so that we have more responsible authority, so that we have more effective power, so that it works effectively, and that's what constitutional reform is meant to do. And in this room there were so many of these conversations, you know more of them than I do, I've only recently, as they say, joined them. But what I felt in the city when I was working in the region surprised me. Like a lot of Ukrainian citizens, I couldn't have imagined that they didn't share, as they say, at the top? And why is this a constant battle? And why are national interests sometimes ignored, and political conflicts prevail? I was amazed. So I am in favour of this power being balanced so that the government has much more authority than it has now, so that the power is strong. I was surprised, and today I'm surprised, why wasn't the Cabinet of Ministers passed in 12 years? Why was it convenient to beat, push, wipe your feet against the government each year? Who would have the benefit of that? And why did this happen to you, Your Honor? And you have to answer that question first. And I'm asking you, I'm asking you, let's support each other and work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u65	Yes, National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u66	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Reverend Victor Fedorovich, based on your report and the actual state of affairs, has indeed achieved some positive results in the implementation of the 2003 measures. For our faction, it is also positive that the project "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility" envisages implementation, starting in 2005, of measures for integrated and continuous rural development. That's my question. In 2003, the government made a very good decision for peasants to build gas pipelines to rural settlements at the expense of Naftogaz Ukraine's debt. Is the government going to initiate this same decision in this year, because this one, we're going to say, for some reason, is not done to the end. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to give you a very brief answer, because I'm already being noted that I've been answering questions for a very long time. I'll give you a very short answer. If we'd made up our minds, we wouldn't have anything left today. There are actually calculations, and there are really questions that are difficult to solve. And there were complications in Naftogaz. Therefore, we will have to continue this policy, and we will be sure to do so. This decision, it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u68	Vasil Gavriluk. The People's Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gavriluk Kremenchug, 147th constituency. Dear Victor Fedorovich, I have a few questions. First. Every year I address the Cabinet of Ministers with regard to computerization of schools in the city of Kremenchug, there are no problems. What is provided for in the current programme that you presented? First question. Second question. There is the “Openness, Efficiency, Efficiency” section entitled “Improvement of transport services, development of transport systems and road management”. To date, transport problems have not been addressed in places such as Kremenchug, particularly public transport. And it's brave to say he's on the verge of survival. What is the government planning to do about it? And question three. Very sharp today is the payment to our citizens of savings, what has been done and what is planned by the government in 2004-2005 to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u70	First, when it comes to computerization. This issue, I know, is that we are working with the Supreme Council, with individual people's deputies, and we have managed to resolve many of these issues over the course of 2003. This year we have planned to make this work much better. And I'm sure we have the ability to computerize all our schools. So the government is harmonising programs today at school, and you know that a signed contract with Microsoft, and we're going to do everything we can to, really, this year, it's the last year, and we're going to stop just to finish solving this question. And in the years to come, it's just that we're improving the software stuff that we're learning from our students in schools. With regard to the development of the transport sector, and in particular the transport general use. It's a very difficult question, it's not a question of a year. This program exists. Well, first of all, we are doing a lot today to make a domestic bus in the country. Such a program works, and now domestic buses are being built on many automobile industries. There's the school bus program, but it's a program, and I'm sure it's not gonna be a year away. Today, we need to be very careful to create working conditions for these businesses. It is imperative that local authorities be given the opportunity, once again, to return to administrative reform, to stress that local authorities should be able to finance the damage caused by the operation of this transport. In all the nations of the world, it is pervaded by local authority. And what had been done before, which had been significantly reduced subsidies for passenger transport, was a mistake and it was the destruction of general traffic. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I also ask you to consider this question: If we are to consider this, we must support local administrations in order to allow them to supply transportation of general use for the transport of passengers. And the last question, you know, is that it's completely related to budget filling, and it's solved in this room: whatever you decide, that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u71	The last question is Galina Harmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u72	Please give the word to Bok Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u73	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u74	Dear Victor Fedorovich, I have two such questions to ask you. First. You know very well that the world is now on the verge of a terrible one: what happened under Madrid, it can fully respond to the moon in Ukraine. And my first question to you is, are you ready, like the Prime Minister of Spain, to initiate the recall of our contingent from Iraq? Because this contingent is more or less protected there, but Ukraine is not protected as a result of the contingent being there. And the second question. At the "Man of the Year" campaign, your subordinate, the governor of the Kyiv region, the award, well, Prometheus prestige, was given by the ambassador of Israel to Ukraine. Don't you think it would be better for this mission to invite a penguin from Antarctica or, say, a white bear from the Arctic, because they are more neutral than the ambassador of the country of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u75	Well, I'll answer the second question, it's shorter. It is a public organization and a government that does not make decisions or use administrative weights to influence this organization. That's the first one. As for the first question. It's really very emotional. I wouldn't be honest if I said that I'm happy that our Ukrainian boys are in Iraq today. I really don't enjoy it, my dear. And I care about that question as much as any of you. It's in such a political plane, it's also concerned Ukrainian society, and I'm confident that the conversation on this issue will take place in a broad field of both the public and the political circles and it will be possible for every political power to express its opinion. The party of regions that I lead will certainly consider this question in the near future, and we will answer it. We will consider it widely, as they say, necessarily and will give an answer. As far as I'm concerned, it's as I say. I answered that question. It worries me a lot, and I'm not happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u76	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Time's up. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, a word from the Committee on Economic Policy has been given to the First Deputy Head of the Committee, Volodymira Demjochin. I'm asking the leaders of the MPs and factions to make the nominations for the factions. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich. Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear colleagues, members of the government! The Committee, at its meeting yesterday, considered 15 issues of information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the Government programme "Openness, effectiveness, efficiency" and its implementation, and the Cabinet of Ministers project "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility." At the same time as these projects, we have considered the draft decree of the People's Deputy of Ukraine of the Bohetirevo Raisa Vasilievna on the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers and its implementation. It is of fundamental importance that, for the first time in many years, the Supreme Council's consideration of the outcome of Ukraine's economic and social development, which is what is happening today, is directly linked to the consideration of the draft programme for the coming period. In fact, this is more positive than has been the case in recent years. This seems to be a serious sign of the development of the national economic system in all its diversity of factors of operation and development. However, both on the Committee and at the Committee's meeting, there are a number of comments and suggestions that we propose to take into account in the adoption of the programme. A constructive and critical analysis of the results of the activities is, above all, the foundation of the future programme of work. I will focus on one of the main circumstances of particular importance. Thus, the programme identified the key importance of the economic development objective of a socio-innovative model of the economy. In reviewing the outcome of the activities, this assessment has, in our view, been blurred. There was no analysis or reduction of the outcome indicators for selected areas of activity, namely social protection, culture, industrial development, transport in a consolidated assessment of what was and how the process of approving the innovative model of the economy in 2003. There is a question of quality of analysis. So innovative activity is the highest in the metallurgical complex, it is about 40 per cent both in monetary terms and in the number of innovative enterprises. That's good. On the other hand, in terms of Ukraine's overall innovative development, and this strengthens the processes of these indicators, reinforces the structural and sectoral conservation processes. Metallurgy should be modernised, but, if the challenge of innovative economic modernization as a whole is to be addressed, compensatory efforts should be made to accelerate the development of structural elements such as machinery, oil and chemical industries. In terms of the engineering complex, it's construction, aircraft, agriculture. What should they be like in the light of the 2003 development results? There are not enough clear answers. In concluding the innovation section, I would like to say that the innovation model threshold is estimated by professionals at 40 per cent of innovation, while in Ukraine at 12.7 last year. This indicator describes the depth of the problem. A better degree of adequacy in the final analysis of the Government is needed to move forward constructively. The following group of issues therefore relates to the quality of analytical and forecasting activities. There's only one but a very clear example. What, for example, is the 50 per cent error in GDP growth estimates? They planned six percent, they got 9.5. That's good, but the prognosis error should be much less. I think it requires a separate careful analysis and work. In our view, the Government has every opportunity to resolve these issues and not allow them to happen in the future. There are comments on legislation. The materials indicated that there was a legislative basis for improving economic development. I don't think we can agree on that. There are examples of this: both the Customs Code, its imperfection and a number of others. With regard to the consolidated evaluations of the activities of the past year, there were, of course, many comments made on the Committee's proposals. This is also true of poverty in the country, and the gap between minimum wage and subsistence and low capacity to pay, and large accounts receivables. However, if not to look for other words, as is often the case in a difficult situation, it is difficult today, it should be noted that the positive movement of the economy is of course a government merit. Even the content of the Government's criticism has changed significantly, and it has actually become more constructive. This is, among other things, an independent certificate of trust and trustworthiness. These trusts and hopes have been earned today by the Government. The final evaluation of the Government and our committee is proposed in a positive manner. The Committee has been evaluated and submitted for consideration by the new Cabinet of Ministers 'Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility'. I'll point out exactly the following. The main objectives of government policy are indeed consistent, they confirm both the content and the structure of the new programme. On the one hand, this is positive and is due to the macro indicators achieved. The positive external market price situation for Ukraine needs to be developed, especially in relation to positions such as the metal market. We are not ready today, and the internal metal market is not ready, and this is, of course, machinery. A number of efforts are needed to ensure effectiveness in the implementation of the programme. I'll give you some examples, and we'd like to. A few comments, and we would like them to be included in the programme. Viktor Fedorović had already said in his reply that the fundamental issues must be resolved, not pinched, but decided in a crucial way. Thus, we would feel that the task of returning savings to the Savings Facility must be addressed in a fundamental way, there is an increase in GDP, there is a need for a courageous decision and 50 per cent, for example, for this problem to be solved, not 500 million, but billions. Economic solutions for paradoxes should be excluded. If we took a moratorium on action last year, this year, of course, it's nice for the government to recognize that technology park is a tool for implementing an innovative model. I wish this sequence would continue. A programme of implementation, implementation of the programme, should be made more clear in general in the short term. Do we want to answer what is planned, for example, for the introduction of VAT special accounts, positive or negative? If the mechanism is not specified, the problem can be deepened or solved through such special accounts. There is a need to elaborate more on this issue. The above concerns almost all clusters of tasks, ranging from the development of the financial sector and the effective use of industrial capacity to the reform of the armed forces and the museum. As far as the museum is concerned. There does not appear to be a balanced list of cultural objects to support the programme. I can only do one example. The Shovkunko district art museum in Herson is a world-class treasurer. Why, on what criteria did she not get into the program along with other museums? A very serious and important issue is the reform of the Armed Forces. The programme lacked the full range of issues. Take the issue of reduction at the same time as reform - 150,000. A fundamental solution is both a housing programme and must be channelled to it. There is also a need to reduce the age of dismissal of officers and generals, for example by five years. Retirement should be reduced. You could say the flaws, but there's one thing I'd like to do. In section 4.2 “High-tech forward-looking industries” why we have only space and telecommunications. Where's the engine, where's the building, where's the plane? I don't think it's too late to correct those moments. Turning to the conclusions, I note that there is confidence that the programme “Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility” is being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u78	Yes, thank you, fellows of honor! Let's move on to the factions and the MPs. I'm asking the heads of the MPs to apply, and I'm going to announce those national MPs who have already applied. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, prepare Victor Yushchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government, dear Ukrainians! The evolution of national nation-building builds on the logic of relations that Ukraine is on the path of social transformation, which can only be estimated by the future generation of our offspring. They're going to write the "gold pages" of Ukrainian history. The breakup of the political era requires new modern mechanisms to build power relations on the principles of compromise and an effective distribution of powers of authority. And only constitutional scales can ensure the balance and stability of all branches of government. 2003 in the relationship between the Supreme Council and the coalition government can be described as a period of successful testing of parliamentary majority capabilities in the system of coordinates "the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a coalition government." It became the year of the greatest mutual trust and voluntary mutual responsibility, a year of stability in Ukraine's development. For the first time, we are discussing the results of the activities of the very coalition office of the Ministers of Ukraine, the government of our only political team. And that's why any evaluation of the work of the associates of Viktor Yanukovic is at the same time their own estimates of themselves as the partners of the government coalition. The Openness, Effectiveness, Performance Programme, as well as the Baltzerovic Government Programme, is focused on three broad priorities: economic reform, institutional reform to remove administrative control and encourage private activity, European quality of government policy. In comparison with previous government programmes, reform goals have changed. With economic stability, we're starting to develop personality, reduce poverty, increase economic well-being and competitiveness, but these processes can't be instantaneous. Of course, more than 9 percent of gross domestic product, 16 percent of industrial production, is resonant. With these results, Ukraine has ranked 1 among the SND countries. This was not the case with any government during Ukraine’s independence. And this was provided by end-consuming goods, not by exports of resources. Today, one Ukrainian has $140 of foreign investment. We deny that -- that's a little bit compared to Poland, but that's three times more than it was in 2001. The government rightly decided not to give people fish but to give them a widow to catch. In the social sphere, motivated mechanisms have been created to improve the welfare of Ukrainians. The main focus is on overcoming unemployment, retraining the unemployed. A total of 175,000 fellow citizens attended vocational training and training. With the help of the State Employment Service, about a million people have found employment. It's not just a figure -- it's a million families who believe in their own strength, in their future. The government's unreserved achievement has been the increase in wages for budget workers. Pension reform is ongoing. There was no fear of skeptics, because the government's program is more techno-economic, it doesn't hide, it doesn't take into account the social impact of its implementation. Its proposed implementation clearly causes social resistance to reduce the level of social protection of the population. On the contrary, Ukraine’s current Cabinet of Ministers has spent twice as much money on social payments as previous governments. During this time, wages have increased by one-and-a-half, spending on residential services has increased by one-third. Restored, and this is very important, a number of socio-suspensive benefits and subsidies that have been cancelled by previous governments. These are benefits in terms of free or affordable telephone installation, sanatorium treatment, car provision, utility, housing, electricity. In general, the most vital benefits have been abolished, so nearly half of these benefits have been restored by the government. Dear colleagues, today we are evaluating the government, which for the first time in 13 years has become a strategic partner of parliament, a partner whose 90 percent of legislative positions are supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is no doubt that the new program, the program: "Sequence, efficiency, responsibility" - has new priorities, priorities for the citizen's personality, an innovative model for development, a structural transformation of socio-economic and political systems. We think that this program is a constant development, it has a young European state's strategy and is designed for the future. To develop a national state, it is enough to have a national political nation and its own patriotic elite. In Ukraine there are no, we have 78 percent of the population in Ukraine, 91 percent of the citizens think they are Ukrainian. And the way to building a politically responsible, national authority that has its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u80	Victor Andryovich Yushchenko has the floor. Alexander Tkachenko will be next. Victor Andryovich Yushchenko is a faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u81	Dear national deputies, distinguished members of the government. The subject of our discussion today is a report by the government on the implementation of the annual program and the adoption of the new programme, I emphasize -- the annual program, not the 10-month, not the 11-month program. I have a question, Victor Fedorovich, for you. Why are you reporting on April 17, 2004, when your program is 12 months old? Why is this not done when it is stipulated in the existing Rules? This, dear friends, has already brought to Parliament a suspicion, already a sense of political fraud, which is being manipulated by parliamentary voices. If it does not seem to have been implemented in a timely manner, it would not be worth listening to as a government report today after 14. April 17 with a proper hearing on the committees. But let's talk essentially. I've heard a lot of expressions about the pace of economic development and I wanted to say, dear friends, it's a really important indicator, but let's remember that it's not the goal of any economic development agenda. The pace of economic development in general is a tool for achieving another, a more important indicator is social standards. And depending on whether we give a positive answer and how the social standards are set out, what their dynamics, in my opinion, should be the basis of an evaluation of the activities of any government. Why, dear friends, does Ukraine have a rate of 2 times higher than in Belarus, one and a half times higher than Russia and has 2.5 times less wages than Russia and 1.5 times less wages than Belarus? Obviously, it is not a matter of pace, but of where the economic growth results are taking place in that country. Do they go to enrich several dozen economic structures and political clans, or do they go to the pocket of the average Ukrainian? Now, I would like to say, dear friends, in this context, the government has failed to implement its programme. He failed to fulfill those obligations, especially those of a social character he had taken a year ago. Poverty is solved by several components. The first question is debt. How is the question of debt resolved? Social debt has now reached 5 billion dollars, dear friends. So I can assure you that the government has failed to implement its programs. The second component of social standards is pay. We have an unprecedented case in the history of Ukraine when the government reduced the minimum wage from 237 to 205. And so it led to a situation where in Ukraine today 3.5 million Ukrainians or 1 out of every 7 Ukrainians gets a minimum wage of 205 dollars. I invite any member of the government today to go out on Mayan Independence, to report on this indicator. Without protection, please do it! And you'll hear your grade. 8 million Ukrainians or 60 percent of the workers live below the subsistence minimum. Friends! Seven million Ukrainians now abroad, eight million, one million Ukrainians unemployed who have no prospects. And from here, dear friends, we're talking about assessing the government's activities. I am convinced that by coming out of the social bloc, we can say that the government has failed to fulfill its obligations, which he chose a year ago, in front of a citizen, in front of a pensioner. Now let us go back to the subject of business commitments. Dear friends! And not the economist will tell you that the number one economic problem in this country is high taxes, there is no new tax code. Ukraine is the only country with SND that has not adopted the new Tax Code. We're taxed in the '30s. What is proposed? In the previous program, the government offered to accept the programs, the new Tax Code. Don't take it. Now fate awaits the same. What was done instead? Instead, respected friends, 20 percent higher taxes on drugs, 20 percent higher public transport, 20 percent higher education fees, 20 percent higher agricultural taxes on VAT than the entire business, and VAT bills have been introduced. Instead of the government going to the market and borrowing this money, he said it was business to make it out of its circulation costs. The VAT bill is now being offered for which it will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u82	The Communist faction is by Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko. Get ready, Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Tuck, Communist faction. I'd like to start my brief five-minute performance with the title of the document itself: "Openness, effectiveness, efficiency." I don't think that's the name to give a document today. Today's name should be "The Rebirth of Ukraine" from what we've been leading it to in 12 years. The other one. I think there's more ambition in the program than reality. It needs to be considered today, from an economic and social point of view. It's about social status. Here was Victor Yushchenko, and the previous and present - day government, which eliminated all the benefits that had been achieved during the years of Soviet power. What are the priorities of today? No one has deciphered them. What kind of economic model are we forming today? There's nothing to say. What are the main priorities? Food security, energy, science, and machinery. It is also said that this is true. Third. The program should be calculated not for a year, for survival of the government, at least for 10-15 years. Now, let's get to the point. Unemployment, it's already said here, not two percent written in the Program, 30 percent, but in the village 55-60 percent. Here Victor Yushchenko has already spoken for the departure of the best, strongest, most literate part of our society abroad. And we are shaping the budgets and economies of capitalist Europe. Today, respectable friends of 55 to 60 percent of the population have incomes below the minimum of living, that's understandable. Today, the President adopts a decree to combat poverty. What do we have to do about it? Zero. GDP growth is counted and we are boasting about the world. What are we boasting about? We're counting GDP from zero. It's calculated for commoners. Let's take a look at the specifics. 85 percent of the metal is exported abroad. What do we have left for machine-building, for construction, for the development of the APC and for the development of social infrastructure? 85 percent. Let's take a look at the President's speech in Kharkiv, where he cried, figuratively speaking, and told how hard it was for the builders. There's no metal. The factory, which produced 106 thousand tractors, is now producing 4.5 thousand. The combine plant of the day, the Ternopilian 4.5 thousand combines, has been released, and is now being released. I could count it in all the other factories. But I think that the relevant note by the Schlichter Institute in the name of the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council shows that today The Schlichter Institute of Economics has made it clear that unless extraordinary measures are taken to develop an agro-industrial complex, there will be a collapse, in three or four years there will be no more harvesting, no more sowing, no more harvesting. And now for Min. APC. Dear friends, in 12 years they've exchanged 12 ministers, today they're Slavu, a wonderful man, a wonderful specialist, a deputy head of the Cabinet of Ministers. You see, the gross product of the APC is 56-58 billion, the budget is 2.6. It's funny to chicken, Victor Fedorovich. Today, at least 10 to 12 billion more needs to be found at the expense of liquor and gourmet products, thanks to the processing of sugar by the five plants led by the DuSa, one and a half million are processing sugar. And today it is necessary, my dear friends, that the customs service should be at least 50 to 60 billion in the budget. It's only giving us a fourth today. And, dear friends, I'd like to finish by taking into account the time, and I think that the disgrace that Ukraine is going through in importing bread, sugar, meat -- it's on your government, it's on the President. I think it's the respectable friends that we need to reject before we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the word is given by Vladimir Yuliyovich Pehota of the deputy faction of the "Region of Ukraine". And then we'll consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u85	Dear Head, distinguished government, distinguished national MPs! We're getting pretty interesting in the first place. When the time came, and a number of governments went and did not report their program, they said it was bad. When the government reports on its program about a few days earlier, it is also said to be bad. There's some kind of intrigue. Some say that it is necessary not to accept the program but to work as God will, as Alexander Mikolaiovich said. That's how we did it. We started rolling after the 1990s because we didn't have clarity, we didn't have consistency, there was populism, and there was a general noise in which we had to find some way out of the situation that happened in the economy. We do not know many examples in the years of an independent Ukraine when the government in this room reports on the implementation of its programme. And those who have not lost their sense of reality and objectivity, regardless of their political preferences, cannot help but dispute the fact that in recent years there have been positive changes in economic development, in the social sphere. Government Openness Program. Activity. The performance", which was supported by Parliament last year, has been implemented. Those who supported it and those who worked on it today can say that something positive has been done in our plan. This was mentioned in the report, and I will not repeat myself. Even the objective reasons, the significant infertility of our country, could not be fatal to our economy. Regrettably, today the object of criticism by individual opponents is that earlier we could only dream of it. The budget for all the indicators has been calculated. GDP increased by 9 percent. It's been said that growth is bad now. Wages increased by 15 percent. The minimum wage in one year went from 165 to 205. I would like to see one of the Prime Ministers who were before this, how much they had to pay in one year when they ran the Cabinet of Ministers. Exports and investments increased by 23 percent and 27 percent respectively. In addition, population contributions increased by 1.7 times in one year. It's certainly a long way from what I want, but I think it's coming out of the reality of what's possible. And it is good that no one today is surprised that we get used to the better by forgetting to evaluate those who have a high responsibility to the program. I propose that the work of the government after the 2003 program is carried out be recognized as positive. Today we are presented with a government programme that has a much higher rate than what was planned last year. In particular, the program envisions an increase in GDP by 9.5%, an increase in wages, including a minimum wage of 237, and from 1 January 2005 to 262. In doing so, the government plans to increase the salaries of budget workers by at least 25 percent. Since the solution to the problems of the social sphere is practically impossible without the steady and dynamic development of the state’s economy. I would like to propose a programme for our consideration, to support and encourage pragmatically-planned national MPs to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we must now have a recess in accordance with the Rules. What do you think we're gonna do? Why don't we vote? I'm betting, fellow Members, there are various proposals here, so let's vote, let's put it to a vote. Who is in favour of withdrawing from the Rules and not taking breaks and continuing to work until the issue is closed, please vote. Please vote. We have many questions that need consideration. Please vote. No! No! None. No! No! [[12:02:20]] For 190 A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u87	I ask the Secretariat to invite the national deputies to the session room. We'll continue our work. It's okay, isn't it? But you need people to do more. We're continuing our work. He's got a word from the MP's "National Choice" group, Mikola Hapoczka. Next is Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. Is there a Hapocha? Is there a Santa Claus? the factions that have been registered. Bogdan Hubsky, please. Sergei Tereshuk. Bogdan Hubsky. Prepare Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Viktor Fedorovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government! Today we can talk about the achievements of a year that has passed, a fairly high level of macroeconomic indicators in the main directions of socio-economic development of the state. But the government's work, in our view, needs to be evaluated not only from the point of view of the analysis of absolute indicators. In our view, we also need to ask: Is everything being done by the government to accelerate economic growth in Ukraine, or is everything being done to improve the standard of living of the population? I think there's still a reserve for growth, because not everything is done. To the most significant calculations, we could say that this is an increase in the price of arable crops last year, the disadvantages of a pension reform that led to an artificial reduction in the pension of citizens; and, unfortunately, a tax reform that led to an increase in prices for the most needed goods. As in the last year, unfortunately again, this, our joint probably flawed Public Budget Act 2004 has set up partially underperforming macro-indicators, which also leads to a decrease in the volume of budget revenues. Yes, if the 2004 budget was calculated from an increase in GDP by 4.8 percent, it actually increased by 10.2 months of GDP and 11.5 percent in February. This difference is going to mean an additional budget coming from our point of view about 6.8 billion dollars, and I'm sure that's going to be enough to raise the minimum wage, and to restore the intertariff, most importantly, the ratio of wages. [[I emphasize, inter-tariff]] Recognizing our responsibility for the results of the coalition government, we consider it necessary to focus on the following proposals. Especially with regard to the new program. First of all, we have to recognize the need to increase the level of authority of the economic bloc of government. He and only he must define a socio-economic development strategy and be responsible for the effectiveness of the economic policy of the state. The president of Ukraine repeatedly drew attention to this. Next. We support the approach. Moving on to software-based management methods, but can we count on the reality and effectiveness of targeted state programmes if they are not fully aligned with the State budget. The answer is clear. Probably not. However, it is very common for programmes presented, particularly in the government's action programme, to be outside budget funding. So we would consider it necessary, first of all, to identify real needs and anticipate the concentration of budgetary resources within each of the potential budget managers. Secondly, within one month of the adoption of the program, add to each section a list of the main legislative acts to be adopted before the relevant section of this program is implemented. And above all, with regard to social protection for the main sectors of the population, especially the rural population, war veterans and workers, many children and low-income families. With regard to health care and health care, especially in rural areas. Free training for talented children so that every child who has talents and wants knowledge has the right to study free of charge in higher education institutions. Provide 100 percent of the job with a decent salary. Increasing technological, environmental and nuclear security in our country. Only in these circumstances, in our view, will we be able to count on the 2004 sequence of implementation of the programme, on the reality of achieving the goal at each stage of the programme, and what is very important, in specific terms, that will enable us to report truly realisticly to the people of Ukraine, to our electorates. I can't help but stop at a strategic problem for our state. We often declare the transition to an innovative development model. What is real about this? Can we count on a breakthrough in this direction without increasing spending on secondary education information, particularly in rural schools, without increasing the funding of science, giving this priority to financing fundamental research at the expense of the budget, without stopping the escape, I emphasize this word, without stopping the escape from talented young and high-class professionals? In view of what I'm saying, I'd like to stress once again that both the achievements and the calculations are our commons with the government and the achievements and the calculations. And from that point of view, in our view, the People's Authority MPs' work of the government last year can be completely approved. A new program, we support its acceptance, taking into account the comments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today we have here, in the session room, a parliamentary delegation of the OSCE in charge of. Let's welcome it, wish success to our colleagues. Sergey Tereshuk of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine has the floor. Get ready for the Hapochki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear fellow MPs! Agriculture, like the entire agro-industrial complex, is a complex economic organism. And today agriculture is experiencing difficult, difficult times. And the problem is that agriculture is not just production, it's also 18 million rural people. With all the existing problems that have accumulated for more than a decade. So it is only natural that the problem of agriculture is the problem of the agro-industrial complex today. It is only natural that the government program assigns such an important place to the agricultural program. Despite all the problems that agriculture has experienced last year, the government of our state, in cooperation with the Supreme Council, has shown political will, has found economic importance to maintain those slight positive trends that have occurred in agriculture. Let me give you just a few examples. First, the financial situation of agricultural enterprises was profitable in 2003. In 2002, businesses in general worked with damages. According to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the revenue per capita is 215 million. That's right. It's small, but it's already real profits. Both economic and administrative methods of government have succeeded in curbing the rise in the price of arable land products. If the price of food grain has tripled during the year, the price of bread - making products has risen by only 20 to 25 percent. As last year’s wage rise doubled against the year 2000, prices on the basis of the consumer goods of our nation’s citizens increased by only eight percent. For food products when wages rise, I emphasize that prices have doubled by only 11 percent. In addition, there are some distortions in terms of financing the agri-industrial complex from the budget. For the first time in 10 years, the government has fully funded agriculture to the state budget. For the first time in years, a step has been taken towards long-term agricultural lending, and the cost of the individual types of resources that the village receives. A major support for all agricultural enterprises was the preservation of fixed agricultural taxes, the preservation of agricultural sector benefits, and the payment of value added taxes. Compulsory benefits to the Pension Fund This was not easy to do because pension reform was also because tax reform was under way. So, without exaggerating what I've done, I think we have good reason to evaluate positively the results of the Government's Action Programme. I also want to draw your attention to the project of a future program. We must note that today we have no reason to say that we have moved far on the path of the government's intentions to transform our agro-industrial complex into a highly efficient sector of the economy. To be honest, there are far more problems in agriculture today than there are. Despite all the positive developments, it warns that much of the farm’s damage remains has failed to stop the decline in the production of basic products: milk, meat, and the reduction of livestock. Business profitability remains low today. And the most painful. The average wage in agriculture is three times lower than the average in other sectors of the economy. Social problems in the countryside cannot be avoided. These problems, to put it mildly, have matured and require immediate solutions. In our eyes, the gap between urban and rural living is increasing. The city’s investments are much larger than those in the rural sector. Only 27 percent of the population is gassed, and more than thousands of people use imported water. Of course, there is no way to place responsibility on the present government. Many reasons are objective, most of which are caused by a lack of balanced long - term policies, ignoring world experience. So it is very important that the government has found political will, and today it has offered solutions to these problems. And it's very important that the Programme writes that the main task is to turn an agro-industrial complex into a highly efficient, export-efficient, stable economy and. The food security of our country. This year, the year of accession to the World Trade Organization, this is extremely important. Those expenses that are planned, God willing, so that we can make up our minds. 1.3 billion dollars, to invest in agriculture, will make it possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u91	Yes, Santa Claus, National Choice MP, next to Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u92	Dear President, People's Deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers. The People's Choice Group authorized me to make an assessment of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in the implementation of the programme. We believe that the Cabinet of Ministers has worked systematically, consistently, on purpose. The current composition of the Government, which could be referred to as the first coalition Government of the independent Ukraine, has been able to establish good partnerships with factions and groups belonging to the parliamentary majority. This has greatly helped the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the tasks assigned to the programme. Our positive assessment of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers is based primarily on significant progress in economic policy, as expressed in the positive development of the main macroeconomic indicators in Ukraine. This has led to significant positive changes in the structure of the economy. The growth leader in 2003 was a machine-building plant with an increase of about 36 per cent. The Government has been able to develop a trend towards faster growth in the manufacturing industry than in the extractive sector, which shows that our country has become a target country. to a new type of economy that is rapidly developing on the basis of the increasing use of science-intensive technologies. Of course, the total number of indicators could be higher if it were not for the intervention of natural factors that unfortunately had a negative impact on agricultural productivity and did not allow the APC to grow by 2 to 3.5 per cent, as planned by the Government in the programme. However, I would like to point out the importance of the Government at this stage and its role in the crisis that has taken place with food grain and the provision of grain and food flour to the population. I would like to say to the Government that it has succeeded through its structures, including through Gossreserve, for almost a half-year in curbing the rise in the price of bread through the skillful variation of the State's resources and resources. We understand that the positive dynamics of macroeconomic indicators have been affected by objective factors that have increased demand for the production of Ukrainian enterprises in domestic and mainly external markets. However, I would like to emphasize that the well-balanced, economic policy of the Cabinet of Ministers has become a determining factor in economic growth. The elements of this policy were: curbing price increases, ensuring the stability of the national currency, strict implementation of the approved State budget, developing external economic linkages both in preparation for the WTO and towards the establishment of the EEP. As a result of the Government's activities today, we can talk about increasing retail trade, increasing the savings of citizens, which are investment resources for the economy, with an impressive increase in long-term credit more than two and a half times, increasing the availability of financial resources for investment, recognizing the success of our economy in the world, as expressed in Ukraine's increased investment rating and enabling the implementation of planned ones. In the international market, capital is at a record low rate for Ukraine. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like to point out in particular that the Government's efforts to support the domestic coal industry have reduced its debt to regression miners and one-off assistance by more than a third. We also welcome the fact that the country's 2004 budget provides for increased funding for industry reform, improved security, and the payment of salaries. Of course, it is not possible to refer to the 100 per cent implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers programme. The problem of price formation in natural monopolies, the effective management of the public equity package of enterprises, and the return of VAT remained unresolved. There is still a question of the transition to the registration of small-scale enterprises in one window, the adaptation of enterprises to WTO, the failure of the Odessa-Broda pipeline in the 2004 budget process to revise certain commitments. However, we believe that the main objectives set out in the Government programme have been met on some of the indicators and have been exceeded. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers promised to increase GDP by 5, in fact 9.3, which was the goal of raising exports by 5, more than 25. In addition, taxes were reduced. The growth in real wages, as promised, is 15 per cent. The members of the parliamentary group thus endorse and support the activities of the current Cabinet of Ministers and propose to assess its work in the implementation of the programme as satisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u93	Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk of the MP factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine has the floor. [[united]] Noshchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u94	Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! First, a little clarification. I am so aware that the government of Viktor Yanukovic is reporting in the last year and is fully responsible for the year for which he is reporting. What I want to say is this clarification, because there are many former Prime Ministers, former members of the government, former Supreme Council Heads. And I think that when they come out of this rostrum, they use democratic procedures to self-critify themselves, especially because they didn't have the privilege of reporting from this rostrum. So, Victor Fedorovich, you take criticism beyond this year, plunged into the distant past as a self-criticism of people who also worked their time in government and headed the Supreme Council. And now, relative to the essence of the question. I emphasize, and this is very important to me, that the government of Viktor Yanukovich is reporting for the first time in the Supreme Council and has implemented its programme for the first time. And not only did I do it, but I've made significant qualitative changes. What quality changes are there, and I want to emphasize that. First. The manufacturing industry and machine building became a leader in the economy of Ukraine. This means that important quality changes are taking place for the future. There is a positive trend in economic development. If we've talked about trends before, the government can now say with certainty that trends have turned into positive dynamics. And that means that the next government program is based on this dynamic. If you use numbers, you can say the following. The manufacturing industry has grown by 18.2 percent in the past. That's 3.3 times more than the mining industry. This is a eloquent fact. When it comes to economics, and it's really positive, you can talk about what's taking on the pace of social programs. We are not satisfied, naturally, with the life that the people of Ukraine now live. But let's be honest: this is probably what everyone's involved, without exception, is here: who's more, who's less. And I would, for example, not speak so loudly from this rostrum, especially from those gentlemen who have also put their hand in order for it to be the way it is today. And today I can say one for Victor Yanukovic's sake: that the government plus all the questions that we can call today, the figures, they have a positive dynamic. I just want to say this is an important moment. The government has taken a big step, I would say, historically: it has initiated pension reform. It's not all that smooth, it's not that simple. But this is an important step. This is a responsible and courageous step. The government also tried to organize tax, tax, and tax systems. Yes, that failed, but the government has made an effort to do so. And we can also give him a plus. As for the problems there are, there are many of them. And in the agricultural sector, in the social sphere, they're everywhere. And that's why the new government program is based on both dynamics and problems. And I'm proposing to the government to give a positive assessment for work in the past period and to approve the program. To approve that we are having a difficult year 2004 and it will be really difficult, that the government is working in a stable way, and the stability of the government will be the most important factor in political life in 2004. I also propose that the program be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u95	Mikola Noshchenko from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine. Prepare Turkey's Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear colleagues, members of the government! Dear voters! Today, we have heard a report from the government during his activities. The evaluation that we're going to make will be a mediocre assessment not only of the government of Viktor Yanukovic but also of our activities. What do I think is good for an active government? I'm just going to take a couple of social indicators, and today, there's not a single speech going on. First of all, it's a reduction in the level of registered unemployment. For the first time in independence, it fell to 3.6. In addition, there has been a significant reduction in what is called part - time employment. Secondly, the growth rate of the internal gross product has led to a corresponding increase in real income. Today, the average wage of 498 dollars per household is 36 percent higher than the minimum wage. And the third. This improved the pay-as-you-go ratio. Compared with the previous year, the proportion of workers who received the minimum wage decreased to 13 percent. It's a reality, and you can't see it. There was constructiveism in the work of the government and the Supreme Council, particularly because of working with factions. Let me give you an example. A year ago, from this rostrum, the Hard Ukraine faction of the Government's Openness, Efficiency, Efficiency Program was the initiator of a continuation of active energy conservation policy. Thanks to the timely support of the government, Ukraine has organized its release of its Ukrainian compressors, its inert gas production stations, namely budget revenues, hundreds of jobs, decent wages and the well-being of families, saved lives of miners, it is the stable work of Sum, Poltava, Deaf, it is the brand and face of Ukraine. Today we're starting to replace obsolete equipment, we're developing a program, and we're asking the government to support it. What causes anxiety in the faction? In our view, budget spending is not always used effectively. We firmly believe that their use by the Court of Auditors, the Audit Authority, the State Department is obviously insufficient. For example, about 5 billion dollars are spent each year to support the coal industry, and coal, as sold, is sold at market prices by intermediaries. And in this winter, it's not like there's a heated field office, clubs, schools. The population’s domestic coal had an increase of nearly 100 rubles. And at the same time, it was the ministry that brought about this adventure. Where the authorities of the Cabinet of Ministers hold back prices for goods and services that go to the state budget, this is what voters expect. Not better with agrarians. You've heard of achievements, flaws. How the sand includes billions of amounts of government support. For example, in 2004, the agro-industrial complex provides 2.5 billion dollars, of which only 443 million dollars are available for the development of targeted programs. Only 15 million dollars have been allocated to the Suma region. And the question is, "Where do plants and animals grow, in Christians or in regions?" Last year, the entire districts of my 160 constituency were not given a penny. Next. Inequitable financing of the principals of the funds and its subordinate structures. If the central authorities, such as the Cabinet of Ministers, the Presidential Administration, the Supreme Council is practically financed by 100 percent, local structures, both government and local self-government, are not always needed. In general, we will deliberately push them into criminal self-financing. Even greater contrast is there between financing the fields of culture, education, and health care. At the same time, the principal officials, who overwhelm millions of dollars through themselves, ask: Why are their subordinates working poorly? The answer is: this is communal property. I believe that it is necessary to impose a moratorium on increased funding for the principals in the next budget, and that the cost of addressing social problems should be spent. That'll be fair. Victor Janukovic’s main achievement is that he has been able to lay a solid foundation for further economic, social, and social upheavals. The program proposed by the government is a direct extension of the previous one. Real jobs need to be allowed by the government to continue working on a stable growth of the economy, a solution to social issues. By making a positive decision and trusting the government, we will be able to avoid possible negative consequences in this difficult year. The faction at an earlier meeting made almost unanimous decisions to support the government program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u97	Alexander Turchinov has a word from the block of Julia Timoshenko. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u98	I have this feeling that you and I live in different countries. When I've listened to the government's victorious report, the representations of the pro-President majority, but let's take an impartial look at our government's report. Let's start with the government's main achievement -- GDP growth. Gross domestic product, I remind those who didn't learn the economy from government officials, is primarily a newly created value. Where is she, dear colleagues? Where is this newly created value? Where is the increase in profits? Where is the increase in VAT? Instead, we have thousands of bankrupt productions, instead we have a VAT crisis that the government can't deal with, we have an illegal presidential decree that actually makes the situation worse, which will destroy thousands of producers by confiscating essentially their negotiable costs. Next, my fellow Members, GDP can be calculated as household income. I want to ask you, from most people, where is this income? Instead, we have a poor population, instead we have a destroyed agro-industrial complex. And in the end, the quintessence of increasing GDP is the increase in revenue. Once again, I have a question for you: where is the growth of the budget revenue? Instead, we're having an affair with pensions that the government hasn't fixed. At the same time, honourable national deputies, there is a rapid increase in prices for everything: water, electricity, bread, meat, and total poverty in the population of Ukraine. So I have a question for those who are going to vote in favour of the program and approve the new program: either we have total falsification, or we have diagrams that are showing us today that only show that the shadow sector of the economy is growing, which is showing the rise in the income of shadow areas that are running the country today. The following question that we have not heard from the distinguished Prime Minister: why does the country slip into the chasm of dictatorship? Why did we not hear in the report the reason for the closure of opposition and independent media? Why did we not hear the reason for the discovery of criminal cases against political opponents? Why didn't we hear who's setting fire to the homes of opposition deputies? After all, dear colleagues, there is a strong boundary structure. Four days ago, members of the police beat up the son of the national deputy Volinz. Again, no one knows who is to blame, and again no one knows who is to blame. Therefore, honourable colleagues, when the government is being modestly removed from these issues, we must call upon this rostrum of Mr. Medvedczuk or the more modest cleric of the President's Administration, who is responsible for the government, to report to us as real leaders of the country. What we see today, fellow believers, is a farce. I will remind you that ten times unprecedentedly Azarov forced the Supreme Council to vote on the 4,000-1 bill, which the President vetoed. Even after that, the entire economic bloc headed by Azarov had to resign. So, your honorary colleagues, our faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc will not vote for this farce. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u99	Alexander Alexanderus Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please. From the factions then we'll finish the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, Victor Fedorovich. I have some advice for you before I actually speak. Take a transcript of today’s performances, such as Leonid Makarovich, but read it in a few months, even weeks, and compare it — yes or no. And there you will be exposed to a lot of things about the influence of the President's Administration and our shorthandy on today's issue, because it is definitely political, and there's nothing strange about it. Our analysts and deputies, including the government's programme of activities and implementation and the past, and the project of the new program. And that's the conclusion. This is, of course, a political document that most likely resembles a pre-election programme for the Presidents of Ukraine. And that's why the estimates should definitely be political, because you can analyze it in every ingredient, today the predecessors who are doing it here, but you can think of it as that. As a result of last year's program. What happened to the wages and the government's initiative to fail to comply with the wage law is already in history as one of the consequences of the government's work. What happened. That's why -- with GDP rising and wage rising that's not at all equal to GDP growth -- that's what the fellow MPs were talking about. A spiritual crisis that is artificially organized for the benefit of delinquency. Yeah, that's it. At the heart of this crisis is the actions of the previous government, but your government has failed to address this problem, as we recommended, as concrete measures have been proposed. A budget flash circle that ended in the destruction of small business, local self-government, agri-industrial complex. From the point of view of the agro-industry complex, I will not speak at all, because all our successes are so-called, in paws of success, are in no way perceived by the population in the countryside, because they see unsowed fields, they see prospects for themselves, and they fill, from where they can, the ranks of those already immigrants from Ukraine who are going to be rescued outside Ukraine. A low level of antisocial action, including those relating to teaching, medicine, especially in the whole of intelligence, for the king, for Stalin Gorbachev, for the Ukraine of Szhrbickýk, is one thing, and with Kravčuk and Kuchmi, a completely different one: the lost benefits were lost, what was provided for by law and the government had to be preserved. In the pension case, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees to improve the pension benefits of the population that we have taken from the poorest pensioners, according to our estimates, about 25 dollars a month. Breaking up the budget for maintenance and adventures like Iraqi. On this point, the statements that were made in the morning by the faction, Yuri Lucenko talked about it, and we can confirm it again: we will have to follow the example of Spain, where the Socialists came into power literally the day before yesterday, we will have to take appropriate measures, we will use our military forces out of Iraq, because this may end in a tragedy for Ukraine, and you know that the government here will do nothing to prevent such a mistake. The financial market remains opaque, semicriminal. For no price in the primary market, enterprises are taken by those who are closer to the government body, and in the secondary market, no one controls where these funds are going and why superbillionaires are emerging: Nicolel Ferrosplenic, Plain Nitrogen, Zaporiztal, NGZ. Today our electricity companies are run by Canadians, U.S.A., Israel, Russia -- and we're wondering why tariffs are going up and everything is going wrong with the population. There is no policy of authority in the direction of openness, transparency, social orientation of the economy. The government does not react, but it tends to turn the police, the prosecutor’s office, and the tax service into a repressive tool for dealing with dissension. And you know that very well: The Rural News, on the Fifth Channel, Radio Freedom, Public Radio and others. This is further proof that the world is murmuring about the pressures of freedom in Ukraine, and the local authorities do not see these problems. So, naturally, most people vote for your program. We won't interfere with her. But it will have to be answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, representatives of MPs and factions spoke. Now the committee heads. We have 33 minutes left for that. I suggest this: First to committee leaders, then to those who sign up from committees, but who are not committee leaders. Is there no objection? Depending on whether we have enough time. Mikola Tomenko. Prepare Peter Dusty. I take the lists that are on the computer and sign up for the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to immediately support the former President of Ukraine that the government had reformed the constitutional reform programme in Ukraine. This is the only government that has discussed three different concepts of constitutional reform with local government administrations in a year. All three of these concepts were supported by the Ukrainian people, as the statistics of the Ministry of Justice show. So I agree that there are really positive results in this activity, but unfortunately we need to talk more about negative things. The Prime Minister said, I think, one honest and frank thing, he said that his government lived under the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic. Of course, Parliament has not yet voted in favour, but the Prime Minister is acting as the leader of the country. And so from time to time, we see local officials reorienting, they realize that the host in the country is different. I don't remember any Prime Minister in Ukraine, whose presence in the area has caused a phenomenon that today is the arrival of government officials in the areas. In the Cherkas region, the arrival of the last prime ministers led to a two-hour roadblock, because the local officials were afraid not to let God in, he saw a living man, unprepared, who had been locked up for two years. In some areas local officials tried so hard that they left one beer "Sarmat" in shops and bars so that the Prime Minister wouldn't be offended that they drank nothing but Donetsk's beer. I think that if the government lives today under the conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic, we will still vote in favour of the parliamentary-presidential republic. Then how will the local officials work with the Prime Minister and the government? When it comes to information policy, it's fundamentally important to me who's doing this information policy. If you analyze the program of previous and current years, even comas have been preserved. If the government is setting up those officials who are giving us the same texts of information policy that they're about to carry out, they should probably be left behind. If the government wants to change what is called information policy, it should give us either the tex of another, or the officials to offer others. I understand that the Vice Prime Minister of Humanities has not come because he does not want to inform how newspapers, radio stations are closing down and how journalists are being destroyed at this meeting, but the question remains for me in principle: who is carrying out the information policy in this country. If the government is carrying out an information policy, those officials who carry out it should be criminally responsible for my deep conviction. This year, the level of immorality, spirituality, and cynicism in the media has become critical. I, Victor Fedorovich, address you. You have a summary word for 10 minutes. I just want to hear if you're my partner or opponent in stopping the romance of the zone, the mud and the zone songs at all FM radio stations. If you're my partner, then as the head of the Parliamentary Committee, I will do everything I can to get you these radio companies that are now 90 percent in the regions and that have destroyed the Ukrainian radio that are supported by local officials. When transport authorities are forced to put this mudbag in a taxi today, we've reached the point where our children will soon live in a romantic zone and sing these songs in schools. If the government and the prime minister are prepared to do so, send those officials who were not in the bulwara republic recently, who, fortunately, you supported me and took Dmitri Tobacco out of the bulwara, so that he wouldn't be involved in the propaganda of prostitution there in the magazine, but he was involved in the spiritual education, I hope. Let's fight this. If you're for us to sing the zone, then obviously this is the information policy of this government. The president, by the way, has been taking a completely different position lately than the government. And here's a question. If the President supports three. Excuse me, four opposition factions to introduce a moratorium on media screening. The president said that yesterday. And the government doesn't vote. What, the Prime Minister and the government against the President in order to stop groundless checks? Yesterday "1+1" and "Inter" decided to censor the President and his support for our idea of a moratorium on the media was banned. So what happens to the President when the presidential election campaign starts? You won't listen to Leonid Kuchma at all, because he's not on the third term. Our position is clear and clear. I support, of course, this joy in the Prime Minister’s voice when he says that the government has accumulated a lot of resources. Do something for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u103	Basil Hara, please. Prepare Anatoly Matvienka. There's no Matvienka. So then get ready for Gergy Korniyovich Kruczkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! In assessing the results of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2003 and the implementation of the Government programme, it should be recognized that this is the first real programme in place for all years of independence of Ukraine. It was prepared and adopted in public, including with the participation of the people's deputies. The current programme has been a constant focus of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, as opposed to the previous ones, which were mentioned only before the report, if any. Each programme is assessed by planning and actual indicators. The current results are encouraging. It has already been stated repeatedly that GDP growth by 9 per cent is much higher than planned, the output of 16 per cent of the industry has increased by 20.5 per cent, the export of Ukrainian products has increased by 24 per cent, not raw materials, but ultimately finished products, as a result of the activities of the Government of Yanukovic. The total household income, this is an international figure, increased by 10 per cent, the average monthly wage increased by 23 and indeed by 15.2 per cent. As a fact, it is not expected and expected that the decline over the years has increased the standard of living of the population. As a result, the domestic consumer market has improved, and retail trade has increased by 20 per cent. As a result of the implementation of the programme, debt for social benefits to low-income families and child benefits, which amounted to hundreds of millions of bracelets, has been eliminated since June 2003. Budget salaries have increased by 32 per cent, with highly skilled workers also being affected for the first time in recent years, including through the alignment of inter-office salaries between unskilled workers and high-skilled workers, whose salaries have been virtually equal in recent years. This has been facilitated by the establishment of unpopular, critical wages today, but economically and socially justified. In all of this, the minimum wage has increased from 45 per cent to 56.2 per cent to the present. The economic success of the Government of Yanukovic allows for a further step in the wage increase, which means the full pay. In addition, the Programme's 2002 project planned the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 bracelets, not as planned on the first November, but from the first September, which would lead to a significant increase in wages for all workers. In particular, the recovery of the tariff network is planned, which is particularly important for the budget industries, and the continuation of the recovery of inter-mission salaries. These measures will make it possible to improve the standard of living for the population in 2004. Speaking of which, I'm a long way from thinking that we're all good, and people are singing praises to all of us. The decline in the economy, wages, social protection in previous years has already been too profound. It is not possible to recover GDP in two to three years, which has fallen by 60 per cent in previous years and wages by 74 per cent since the 1990s. Yes, ahead of the high and difficult borders, but the current Government, led by Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic, has created economic preconditions to meet the challenges. All of this is done in the context of tax money not always supported in this room and in general in the State. It can be recognized as a positive implementation of the Programme on all fronts. I would like to wish to see the Cabinet of Ministers present to the Programme today adjust the draft Programme to strengthen its social dimension and, above all, on such issues as the return of the population's contributions, because the Programme has little commitment, the elimination of the salary arrears that we promise for five years and are not liquidated. Speeding up, reforming the wages, increasing its share of the cost of products and in domestic gross products and increasing the level of social benefits by social insurance funds, there is resources for that. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour will therefore send proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers to strengthen the social bloc of the Programme and looks forward to the introduction of our proposals in the Government Programme “Coherence, effectiveness and responsibility”. There is every opportunity for that, as the Government has a high potential, there is an economic potential. We look forward to a positive solution to all issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u105	George Kruczkov, head of the Security and Defence Committee, will be next in line for Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues. All are aware of the plight of our Armed Forces and of how acute and difficult the problem of protecting our nation today is. In this regard, I would like to address three questions within the time spent on the talk. First. There is a need to talk about the need for law enforcement in government activities. The Defence Act provides for defence costs within the limits of the real need, but not less than three percent of the nation’s gross domestic product. Over the years of independence, these costs did not exceed 50 to 60 percent of the minimum needs of the Armed Forces. What are the minimum needs? It's an assimilation that allows the Armed Forces to just be, to exist. During the 12 years that followed, the Ukrainian army received no new type or system of weapons. Our army can't really wear our military, they only have one form. If the government is unable to ensure the allocation of allocations within three percent, as provided by law, as evidenced by the government's decision on future defence costs by 2015, it may be necessary for the government, within the legal field, to enter the Supreme Council with a proposal to amend and amend the law. Unfortunately, this is not done. In this regard, I would like to say that the requirements of the Law on Social Guarantees are not met for military, veterans of war and labor. In doing so, this shameful practice was initiated primarily by the Prime Minister, who claims to be the defender of a small Ukrainian. The second question. I'm surprised by the state order. On the basis of the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council, the President of Ukraine is issuing decrees on the implementation of the Armed Forces Reform Programme, that they should be strengthened by an appropriate budget allocation of 6.4 billion dollars this year. The government proposes, and the Supreme Council accepts a budget that is almost a billion dollars less than that amount. Why aren't the President's orders being followed? If they are unrealistic, why are they accepted? This has created enormous difficulties in the process of reforming the Armed Forces. I'll call you guys one of those numbers. Military authorities owe the military 612 million dollars for asset maintenance. Who will solve these problems? And the third question. It's about overcoming the injustices in the military's pension insurance. This is a very acute problem. Today, especially in connection with the next election, it has become so intense that it is already threatening to rest in the state. We have absolute injustice in the pension insurance of the military who have retired before 1992 and now. Now the colonel who retired in 1991 is receiving a pension smaller than the flag that left today. That's such a sharp question. And in a veteran environment, there's this idea: is it not consciously a line to make this generation die, and then, according to the famous principle, "there is no man -- there is no problem." I would very much like the government to pay attention to this issue in its future activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u107	Peter Poroshenko, head of the Committee on Budgets, has the floor to prepare Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Honourable Viktor Fedorovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, the situation and the situation that is now in this room shows that there is no interest in discussing the government's agenda. Recall how the last year’s program took place: 335 votes were issued to credit the trust of the new government, which took on an absolutely clear commitment and for which it was to report to you, honourable parliamentarians, because you represent 47 million people behind your back and who should ask in the government how the commitments they made were done. Unfortunately, to date, those who have given this credit have lost any interest in asking, and how have those tasks that the government has undertaken taken on? The main task that the government took on the flag was to overcome poverty. It's very clear right now that instead of actually increasing the income of the population, government activities have only increased the prices of basic food, and more than 25 percent of the population today actually don't have enough money to buy clothes, and their consumer basket is only made up of food, which is actually 25-30 percent more expensive for them. Who will report on this? We are now receiving a report on the implementation of the Government Programme without a report on the implementation of the budget. Dear colleagues, this is absolute propaganda, because the budget implementation report would clearly prove the real sources of the tasks that the Supreme Council has put before the government and with which the government has failed. I'm surprised to hear from the head of the Committee on Social Policy that, it turns out, the Social Policy Committee of Parliament suddenly began to take care of GDP growth. In fact, this committee should certainly watch: how did the government itself change the plan that it had put in the previous program, which we are now listening to, and reduced the minimum wage from 237 to 205. We were then fed in this room with promises that, "Dear Sirs, you will enter into a position: the budget will not be fulfilled, and we have no money to carry out this plank!" In January, we are informed that the budget has been implemented, but the government has more important than the fight against poverty, the direction of use of this money. We're now being offered a new program. Dear colleagues, the new macro-indicator change program cannot be considered and adopted in isolation without a change to the State Budget. More than 57 bills, including social programs, are registered in the Supreme Council. At the same time, the program says in a separate phrase that the government is going to raise wages for budget workers to 25 percent. I want to publish data that this year, while this government was in power, the population of Ukraine has decreased by more than 400,000, and the number of budget workers and officials has increased by more than 13,000. So we actually have a country that is bureaucratic. Tax payers instead of directing these funds to raise the level of social protection that the Committee of Social Policy is supposed to be worried about, aim at increasing the public apparatus. Dear colleagues, before you vote in favour of this program, which contains nothing but general appeals, think of tomorrow you will tell the retiree when their pension is finally actually increased, which will be heard tomorrow as a result of the adoption of this military programme, which will be on the street tomorrow without any guarantees from the State to fulfil their commitments, a peasant who is now without State support, robbed by this agrarian policy, a miner, a debt on the salary of which he has grown or a teacher? So I urge you to stay away from it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u109	Anatoly Matvienko, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Prepare the forest of Tanjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u110	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Dear colleagues! I want to say, first of all, a few general comments and warnings about what's going on in the walls of the Supreme Council today and what bear service we're risking to give to the government today. And that's why. We have to understand that there can't be a weak link in the President-Parliament government triangle, because in any case, the effectiveness of government power, and we represent it on the top of its echelon, is determined by the power of the weakest chain. And if Parliament is turned into nothing or simply an institution that is determined by the government only to do what it wants to do, we are not only destroying Parliamentism and Parliament, we are not doing our job, we are destroying the government, because a strong parliament is a guarantee of a strong government. The absence of a strong parliament is a degradation of government, however strong it may be, because it doesn't think it's proposing, it's not looking for better solutions, because it doesn't have an institution of opposition and control and that's why it's being born. This is what is demonstrated in the way that today we are invited to discuss immediately after the deadline for the first and the finalization of the program, without reading it, to accept and approve the program for the following year. This is a formality. This formality is unacceptable. And I'm asking you, Victor Fedorovich, to show such disrespect for Parliament, to break it across the knee, is a step towards the degradation of the government itself. Question two. We're discussing the results of the program. I'm in solidarity with someone who's been speaking and saying that the main criterion is not GDP, it's not the increase in industrial production in all other areas, it's the quality of life. And we have to say that the quality of life today has not changed. Today we are in a pitiful state, and we cannot endorse the results of the government’s activity today. The third thesis. I do not know why the word “transparency” has been removed from the program for the following year. Are you sick of transparency? She wasn't here, so at least you declared her. And now you don't even say it anymore, and that's all you've ever done. I was not in one discussion with various institutions, including the initiative of a number of committees of the Supreme Council. I have never seen a government official in those discussions. Let me give you an example. For example, the EP. I fully agree, Mikola Janović, with you that you sincerely want Ukraine better, but we have talked to you about it. And I said, let's get the opposition, those who say it's bad, and have a public discussion. To this day it is not available, but there is an obligation to execute and sign and ratify the EP. Same for the consortium, same for Odessa Brody. And a thousand other suggestions. Now, regarding the problems associated with the committee. We think that there will never be any effective power and result if we don't take a very responsible step, not include the initiative of millions, and the initiative of millions in government affairs is real local self-government. Nothing is said today about how to make him a partner, how to raise this institution and strengthen the government's desire to do something in our country. On the contrary, it is being destroyed today, and it is being eliminated today. And what the government doesn't know is what the power structures are doing after the destruction of local self-government, is a demonstration of Victor Fedorovich, which they won't even report to you, because he's obviously a white mark in the decision or attitude of the government. The other one. You say in your program that you want to continue administrative reform. But you didn't start it. No one knows the committee I lead, at least not hearing the new concept. The same is true of an administration that we are not even talking about today. The same applies to the absence of a government position on constitutional reform. I urge you to take your time today. Give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! We're working on it. Les Stepanovich Tanyuk, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u112	Dear fellow MPs! Dear Victor Fedorovich, from which I did not hear the word "culture" in 40 minutes today, and I would very much like to talk about it. Dear Victor Janovich, who has entered the history of our time as a gravedigger of the Ukrainian National Edition! This is the kind of act that Ukrainian books assigned to you for all of this help in the Ukrainian book business, and you can say that they've gone into history, and they've actually gotten into it. I'd like to explain why I voted together last time for Mr. Yanukovich's Program, and this time I can't vote - the heart won't allow it. Last time, the voters asked me, "Why are you, the opposition, against you, and you actively supported me?" "Right," I said, "but understand me too: "I came to the Cabinet of Ministers and heard nothing about culture as it should have been in the government program." I made 24 comments to this program. In the morning, the program was handed over to the deputies. And 18 of those observations have already been promptly introduced here. Of course, it was a positive thing that 18 comments from what we wanted to make were introduced. But then, unfortunately, all of these 18, well, not 18, 14 of the 18th, were practically not introduced into the budget. They were practically not introduced into the budget, and they are repeating themselves today in one or the other transcripts of this program. So, of course, I said, "Donbas is chasing an empty hole." And you can't react to this void because culture does require, not empty, but real target coal. What do we have here? We have a culture law today that can't be done in any way, and in that culture law there was a ban on retraining cultural institutions, a thorough retraining of cultural institutions, a thorough reprivatization. The Long Theatre, they've already taken the word "Long" as something to be ashamed of, and they've written the word "Shambala" -- a nightclub. This is the absolute norm of what is being done in the state today. The Ukrainian Circus made a huge profit in the Soviet Union, with the circus holding on to all other fields, and opera art, and so on. Today, the grant circus, 80 percent of the circus profits are covered in black nudity. We've been doing this reform for two years, and we've returned to the same thing today, and once again, the directors of the circuses who have acquired this property are pulling money on themselves. We have the persecution of patrons and sponsors today instead of giving the road free to these patrons and sponsors and creating a climate for them to help culture. We have very little potential for supporting creative youths. We have the muddy potential of supporting non-creative youth, today some lady comes out to estrad, enough of her to be the wife of any known politician, she'll sing whatever you want, and tomorrow she becomes the man of the year and she becomes the first-class lady. I'm very confused about the level of culture that is today in the Cabinet of Ministers. When the Cabinet of Ministers goes to all the shows of the lowest test species, they can never be seen in Beethoven in an opera theater or a philharmonic. It's still saying that culture for our leadership today is relaxation, it's a waste of stress, but it's not a strategic program to create a normal Ukraine today because of culture. The language, the radio, the publishing -- all we have today is saying that they want us to make some natives, some natives for the consumption of foreign goods, so that we can buy not only ideological goods, but real goods. We're talking a lot today about restoration and repair work, and Hortica is dying, and in Hortica we're deciding that there might already be a Bulgarian embassy, and why not another embassy. The land of the reserves has not yet been taken into custody by State acts today. Why? Because it's expensive because the clan structures are behind it. I wouldn't want you and me to go into the same river for the second time. Philosophers were right, you don't have to do that, you can't do that. The one who wants true spirituality, true culture in Ukraine, will consider why there is no man or culture in all these efforts today, and there is bureaucracy and a police state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u113	I ask that the names of the national MPs who are registered be shown on the board now. We have half an hour to discuss. Please, with Semenyuk's motives, please. Now we're going to be going through three minutes with the national MPs. Semenyuk, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u114	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the four committee heads remain unspoken. This will be unfortunate when issues such as privatization, education, social representatives from committees have not come forward. As we can say today, Polishku is unable to speak on the government's agenda today to explain to all medical professionals when this information came to him. So let's ask you, let's continue for the four heads of the committees, and that won't be scary if we talk by 14.15. We're going to have, this practice you're introducing as chairman of the session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u115	I don't deny it, my dear colleagues, until 3 p.m. And what I'm saying is that you voted to consider this issue, we made a decision in 229 votes in the morning plenary. So, first of all, we're going to continue this morning's plenary session until we finish this consideration. And now there's a proposal to give the heads of the four other committees a chance to speak. This is a committee headed by the Polish National Deputies, Nikolayenko, Samuel and Simeonyuk. I'm this proposal, I'm the ones who signed up, the honourable colleagues. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please make up your mind. [[13:41:38]] For 190 Let's move on to the speeches of the national MPs. There's no proposal. Thirty minutes away. What are you, some kind of discredit? Once again, I would like to remind you, Your Honorary colleagues, that the Supreme Council must come to the session room at the proper time for all the national deputies. There were two proposals -- one from the committee, the other from the People's Deputies of Pinzenic. A proposal was made by the Committee on the Procedure and Rules of Procedure. Did you want to look at it for 45 minutes? I ask my honourable colleagues to follow closely when the questions are raised and the proposals are made. All that was proposed, I put them to the vote. I'm ready to take this up all day. But there is the will of the Supreme Council, and I have to obey it. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. The first word is Alexander Baranowski. Thirty minutes from the National Deputies. Three minutes. Please prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, distinguished officials. I don't think there's a critical analysis of the government's programme last year, and there's no critical approach to the 2004 programming. Some performances remind me of the '80s, when big party leaders taught us how to praise Brezhnev, and they taught us so much that they remembered their experience and did it well today. I would like to say, Victor Fedorovich, the threat of government comes not from those who criticize you, but from those who praise you very much. Once they're bragging, something seems to have come up. Think about it, please. If it's all right today, I wonder why the minimum wage has been reduced from 237 to 205, as we've said, why once again did the population decrease by 400,000 people, why did the real income of the population fall when the minimum wage of 185 dollars in May could be bought 200 loaves of bread, by 205 gr. 140? Why are seven million Ukrainians abroad looking for a piece of bread? The crisis deepened, and there was a tremendous increase in the countryside. The 2003 Bread Crisis, whether provoked or indeed, has taken place. But what I'm saying is that the bread crisis, Victor Fedorovich, is already planned this year. Analysis of the structure of the soybeans, of the autumn sown, tells us that we will not have enough grain for the production of products this year. The cattle’s head, about 2 million heads, has been catastrophly reduced. And as the public sector’s head was reduced earlier, people in their midst were falling apart, and people were holding cattle, now in a cologne, or whatever they called them, and the head of the population began to fall. I want to say that in my village two years ago, the cow cost 2.5 thousand dollars, now it costs 500 dollars, and no one can sell it. This tells us that the cattle are being slaughtered, and I don't know what we're going to be feeding our population for the fall of this year. No one is counting the losses our APC companies have already suffered this year. Dear friends, and unfortunately those who failed the agrarian program last year, are going to do this program this year. For some reason, the government divided the deputies into its own and its own. I think that's not the practice, Victor Fedorovich, when you're gathering only deputies from the majority, and other deputies who are currently in opposition are not. And last of all, the huge threat to Ukraine is that we can be subjected to terrorist acts. Because, look, those countries that have introduced troops into Iraq are being systematically bombed. Ukraine is on this list. We need to think: What can we do to prevent this from happening in Ukraine? And perhaps we should first consider the withdrawal of troops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u117	Please, Puzakov. Get ready, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u118	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština If we had the opportunity to visit another planet on April 17 of last year and only to return on March 16 of this year, perhaps the report on the implementation of the program would have seemed to us to be really ideal. But there is a need for a comprehensive and objective understanding of what is happening in Ukraine. Of course, I can't stop all six chapters of the program. I'll only stop for a few. The report noted that today’s economic growth is gaining momentum and that almost 16 percent of the industry has increased. The question is, Why does the number of unemployed increase with each month? For example, in the agricultural sector of our area, it has grown to almost 40 percent. In total, 33,000 working citizens in the area need employment. Where does such an indicator give rise to debt on wages? It's only in our area today, it's 33.7 million dollars. The average monthly salary of workers in the area is 23.4 percent lower than the average in Ukraine, and the pension has increased by up to 6 dollars 30 copies. Here's the effect of the government program. I'd like to hear the voter's request when the Alexanderian Lan and Slavic come out? What, they need to be reborn through the courts? Why does it take 557 tons of grain to buy the Niwa grain harvester today when it only took 34 tons of grain in 1990? Here's your growth rate. Or we'll take agriculture, we'll have to go out into the field now, and agrarians are only 40 percent equipped with basic power plants, more than 90 percent of which have long worked their depreciation periods and the pace of annual write-offs of worn-out technology is several times higher than its purchasing rates. In a year, most farms did not buy any agricultural products. Today, more than 43,000 farms have only 23,000 tractors, 6,000 grain harvesters, and 0.28,000 seedlings per farm. Such a state of technology leads to a disruption of the time frame of technological operations. The loss of crops is increasing, and the cost of production is increasing. After 3-4 years of harvesting, Ukraine is approaching full deindustrialization of agricultural production. Here's your openness, your effectiveness, and your performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u119	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u120	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. I think the main event of today is not the review of the government's programme, but of the San Francisco trial of Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko, who is increasingly recalculating the Leonid Danilovich Kuchma case. That's where the Ukrainian people will soon know who the "hoo" is and why he lives so badly. While analyzing the government's activities, I would still like to mention its main achievements -- the minimum wage reduction and the pension affair, when millions of people were robbed, Mr. Tihypco gave us the truth instead. - new paintings of bracelets. I'd like to know the achievement of the destruction of a small business. Today, in Ukraine, they're talking about the Eiffel Tower being the Heops pyramid after paying taxes on the Azarov budget. We have reached the unbiased state sector when money is chronically scarce, and Utel's government accounts have a billion 300 million dollars left over. And no one knows what to do with them. We have achievements in the attack on the media when TV stations, radio stations, are being destroyed. It's sitting in the government's bed, Mr. Moskal, who is the initiator of the closure of the 600th National News. The truth is, Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenko said, "Kiss the blackbrows, not the mosquitoes." What kind of social policy can we talk about today if one of the 10 members of last year’s colleges could come at the expense of the budget?Oh, my God! We're leading the country into total pay education, and so people from the village, from poor families, will have no prospects. So the inappropriate praises that we've heard here today from most who remind me of elephants are just as big, but they're just as easily trained. Today, we have seen an attack on party performances of learned papers that were read at endless gatherings of ruling parties. I'm afraid the situation with those who rule today will be just as inevitable as it was then. So we have a new program, with a new name, in which there is a sequence, except in declarations, efficiency, in enriching the clans, and responsibility, as always, on the Ukrainian people. Our faction won't, can't or won't support such a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Hennadia Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u122	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The noble Ukrainian people! Dear government officials! I'm addressing you because when you took a program of government, for which you have now responded brilliantly and there were 335 votes, my voice was not there, Victor Fedorovich. And you know why. There won't be my voice right now. And I'll tell you why. Because it's a program that you call "sequence. Effectiveness. Responsibility "must be called clearly and directly "Populism. Ephemerality. And volunteerism." I can't find any better words for a government that's only 51.2 of the minimum wage in the last year, 50 percent of the minimum wage. Isn't it ephemeral? You're suggesting that in one year you expel 100,000 people from the Ministry of Defense, 80,000 of them who carry the drives. What is it? Whose army are you preparing to feed, honourable ministers and prime ministers? I looked, you can't say I didn't learn anything from your program. Here are the results of the trend. For the first time, an intervention and pawnage mechanism has been introduced to purchase more than 600 tons of grain. And you're saying it's a plus? Ladies and gentlemen, you have to say, honestly, here, when you talk about the shortcomings that only 20.2 million tons of grain have been received, which is almost twice as low, at 1.9, more precisely, compared to the previous year. That's what you should have said. And I'm writing to you today, "Use the new microwave technology that will make 25 to 30 percent profit." I'm afraid you didn't even get it, you didn't read it. I'm showing you exactly where to find it. Now let's move on. Dear friends, what are you doing next? You're saying at the added value tax that it's destroying the economy today. Yes, it destroys, completely destroys. And what do you suggest? You only propose to go to the mechanism of what is stipulated by the decree. Ladies and gentlemen, the total amount of tax benefits was approximately 65 billion dollars and only 1.8 billion dollars in free economic zones. 80 percent is just the Donetsk Zone. Victor Fedorovich, 80 percent. That's why I'm going to be against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u123	Gennady Rudenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare the Sokirka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u124	Thank you. Rudenko Hennaday, faction of SDPU, Committee on Ecology. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues that we are discussing the government agenda today, and we are actually discussing the government -- the personnel, the parties, the exhibitors that are represented in the coalition government. It's very bad what's in Parliament, unfortunately. The governing positions of most committees are occupied by those who have not taken the liberty of calling themselves authority. Therefore, the authority is enforceable, the authority is legislative. I would like us to understand that by criticizing power, we criticize, we have to criticize ourselves, first of all. There are people who want to take on responsibility, courage, negative positions of leadership on committees that ensure the proper work of the government. But we've been dating for a year now, and we're walking past it and we're not approaching it. Thus today the reality of life is that Parliament, which is to assist the government, is preparing such bills of government that, frankly, the government is largely unable to assume such responsibility. He's responsible. And I would like to ask the honourable majority that we will soon return to the question of what responsibility should be both in Parliament and in government, and that we have not only a government but ourselves. What are we cooking? If there are only four committee leaders today who represent the authority of the 25 committee leaders, those who have made such a commitment should be given full authority and thus be held accountable to the government. Then it will be a truly normal parliament, a normal government. I would like to say that the authorities today have, above all, some fear. But fear of whom? Fear of who? Officials, first of all. Officials should be afraid of breaking the law. And today, those representatives of parliament who are on government committees know that sometimes it's not cute, there's sometimes even abnormal language, because the government is responsible for all the questions that come to it, which is what we want, by the way. People in Ukraine today should have respect for their authority. So I'd like to make sure that there's a normal responsibility in Parliament and in government as soon as possible. I'd like to support the government's Action Programme and I'm sure we'll support it in the general room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u125	Thank you. Instead of Sokirko, Mikola Polishchuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine", has to prepare Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u126	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, Reverend Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national deputies, government officials. I would like to put a stop to the achievements and shortcomings of the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, namely, that in 2002, when we formed the budget, the budget was increased from 2.6 to 3.2 GDP for the first time. I mean, when the government wanted to get the support of the people's deputies. What happened in 2003 when support was no longer needed? As GDP rises by 8-9.5 in terms of health financing, it decreases from 3.2 and to three and one-tenths of a hundred, the first time in Ukraine’s years of independence. That's good for you. The other one. The Ministry of Health has made good use of the funds that have been allocated, partly oncology, diabetes, and other programs. But you and I know that health care depends 10 percent on medicine and 90 percent on other factors, namely: 30-40 is a socio-economic state and an inheritance. What kind of inheritance do we have? 25-30 percent of children are born with developmental defects and underweight. So the government's execution of the program is, in my opinion, underappreciative. First, GDP growth, lower health financing. The other one. Reduction of minimum wage. Medical professionals today are on the verge of poverty, earning wages below the minimum wage. And it's going to be a pitiful pension, because the pension is accrued on profit. So there's going to be a beggar's pension and a beggar's salary again. This demonstrates the antisocial orientation of the government. We spent Government Day on cardiovascular, vascular, brain disease. We've also asked the Ministry, and we're 25 million to fund the heart attack. There's not a penny left. So this is social orientation? The Supreme Council has adopted the Law on Helping Mothers to Succeed in Childbearing. What's in the budget? Only those mothers who work. What, then, do the children of mothers who do not work want a promotion? And what's VAT worth, raising VAT on drugs, excise duty on medical alcohol? How much did the opposition factions have to do with the media to tell the president that it was founded. And what are the reasons? Again, the same government. Spitt is not doing the right thing in medical institutions right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u127	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine. Get ready for Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, distinguished members of the government, national deputies. The question that we are discussing today in the session room is extremely important. Not every day do we hear the summations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And right now, it's time to get rid of the over-emotional, politicized, and completely openly analyze what the government has accomplished under the leadership of Viktor Yanukovic in the last year, which remains to be done. It is noteworthy that today’s Cabinet of Ministers came to power at a very difficult time. He inherited a balanced budget from the previous government. In December 2002, an international FATF organization applied sanctions to Ukraine, creating adverse conditions for a domestic exporter who, by the way, forms 60 percent of gross domestic product. As a result of natural disasters, we had serious problems in the agro-industrial complex, which we remember well. With regard to social security, the vast majority of problems have been found to be positive by the government’s last year’s program of activity. Finally, a reform of the pension system began, which no Cabinet of Ministers had yet taken up. Of course, not all pensioners have received a decent pension yet, but, I emphasize, the pension reform has only just begun. We're seeing that growth is also the average wage. Total debt relief from social assistance payments has been gradually reduced. Dear colleagues, we're seeing how the economic foundation of the state is getting stronger, but some of the indicators are actually very complicated. In particular, we are confident that the government has enough power and responsibility to ensure that this year's arrears are fully met. We will influence further implementation and tax reform. Yet, one year to carry out priority tasks aimed at improving the welfare of citizens is a very short term. It is comforting to know that this government is working in the long run. So today we expect the Cabinet of Ministers to consolidate positive economic results as well as complex reforms. Unreasonably, criticism has always been easier than working together, correcting mistakes, and making compromises. The criticism of the government should be constructive, not emotional. I believe, my fellow Members, that this government is more open to cooperation than any other government. And let's work together so that, in fact, the final result is felt by all our citizens, the citizens of Ukraine. And lastly, dear colleagues, I would like to address Victor Fedorovich, with the proposal to improve the mechanism of cooperation with the Supreme Council so that we can really make decisions that will have a constructive impact on the situation and improve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u129	Yes, Mikola Odinenik, faction of our Ukraine. Olga Hinzburg will perform instead of Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u130	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Winnitzkin. Honorable members of the government, distinguished national deputies, distinguished people of Ukraine, good health to you all. I think that everyone, like me, has heard a lot of good words from this rostrum over the course of the year, starting with the date of the adoption of the government program. Especially were these many words spoken of the village, the social sphere of the village, the pensioners, and so forth. And when you listen to this concern for the village, the soul rejoices, wants to live, wants to create. But when you come to the district and see the picture in the country today, you want to cry and it gets a little scary and embarrassing. It's not for itself -- it's scary for the future of its children, for the future of our Ukraine. For example, I think it's a very good decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate mineral fertilizer to the farmer with the repayment of part of the debt, part of the government budget. A good one -- you don't say anything -- a determination, not enough, it's still being implemented. But when you think about this decision and other decisions, it looks more like a commercial. Why, because the same mineral fertilizers have been allocated per spoon per hectare. Of course, each one of you already understands who will receive this minobraví. I don't think there's any need for comments here. Almost exactly that kind of situation, I think it's clear to you both with loans and seeds and so on. So I want to ask the government today with a big request. Let's maybe throw away all these commercials, talk about running the program, about future programs -- let's really do something, do something with you for the village, so we don't really feel ashamed to go out to these people who go around the Supreme Council with their hands out and say, "We need pensions, we need a salary." And if we talk about the government programme today, I repeat that we have everything not specifically, we get it, the future program as we did almost a year ago, it's a very good commercial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u131	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u132	Honorable national MPs, distinguished government representatives, distinguished voters. Today, we are discussing many complex questions, as if they identify our lives and our future. And I would like to say these words -- the government is reporting to us today not for that. To enjoy ourselves, well, in any case it should be that you go out, say what you did and your goal is not to like us and we'll say, God, how beautiful they are, but for this to be done, and our citizens of Ukraine actually, in every place, in every village, in every school, in every factory and factory, they felt that there was, in fact, some movement in the work of this government. I, for example, as a deputy myself, working with today's government, would like to say, yes, I'd better work with this government, because what questions that I didn't ask or celebrate before them, I've always gone to a meeting, maybe it's my obsessiveness, maybe it's really that the government has asked itself, but it's true and it's where the kids are from. But I have another question when I come to the district, and I'm not treated like the Prime Minister, who is prevented and told, these questions need to be removed and asked a lot of questions. For example, I understand that you can talk where you put the chair one, where you put the table the other, where you step one foot or the other, and there's just a big one, and the little one doesn't talk about it. And so when the government wants to do something, I can't understand why these questions are being asked. For example, the 50 dollars that our citizens need to pay off make them such a terrible drink. For example, people from the village travel to the city five times, take turns, and ride again on that bus, which rides once in the village from just one village to the area. And on the next day, and on the next day. Well, what I have to do is just say, "Today's village schedule, and tomorrow's Red Morning, and the day after tomorrow. And don't go there, either, John or Sidorov. And you'll come tomorrow and they'll give you 50 bucks." Or else. Recalculations and pensions. Well, they wanted to do a good job. So why did they make these lines when a man standing in that queue is standing up, tormenting and tormenting, and they say to him, "There's four bracelets on you." Not four bracelets, not four bracelets, but what he was standing there, he was tormented. Well, you can't do that. Today's one street. Count another tomorrow. And it's very simple. You don't need any money, you do. Or, for example, half the villages in schools were frozen by children. Well, they sat in schools and they were frozen. So why can't the local authorities or someone from the government tell you what you have today, the head of the city council, have children frozen in school? Why are you freezing in a village like this? And it's over and over again. Or the same non-payment of salary. That's all. Or, I already said, no pensions, no money. Let's see a normal movie on TV. Well, there's no money for that either. And this is our morale, and this is the dignity of our Ukraine, and this is the image of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u133	Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u134	Dear national deputies, Vladimir Mikhailovich, members of the government! I'm looking in two directions. One thing is, if it's just to declare a program to be supported by the government, and another thing if it's something to do for the people. I liked the following words in the program: "The government will focus on improving the quality of life of the population in ensuring the dynamic and harmonious development of human beings, their spiritual, life and intellectual qualities, social justice and poverty reduction." Very nice words, if even this were to be done, at least the government would no longer have to do anything. But the point is that the program was already in operation in 2003, not to the point of something being done in this direction. Debt on salary is expected to be eliminated. But it's long overdue. It's a great storm for our nation, which we have up to this point in time, 1.8 billion dollars in debt on wages. Or the improvement, you write, of the legal and regulatory basis for compensation for lost savings. What else needs to be improved here, what legal framework? There is a law that has been passed, and we need to do everything we can to find ways to pay off these worthless savings to our people. Increases in official salaries. Well, we're going to raise our official salary just like we did in some way. And prices eat it up, literally, in half a month or a month and a half. One way to do this is to make sure that there's a rise, and prices don't eat that increase. What worries me most is that this is the standard: giving unemployment loans to unemployed citizens for personal farming. Is there a need for such ones to foreknow even their intentions? But let's give credit now, let's give it to those agricultural enterprises that are now working, even though they're producing something. They can't take credit now. I think if the government were to take such a step to achieve compliance with the Constitution, that medical care was really free. And in conclusion, I would like to support Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk in the direction that we should think about each other's contribution to the matter that we are doing. Leonid Makarovich made such a big contribution that we will spend 30 years raising that contribution with the people. So let's think about what we're going to bring in and what it's going to give to our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u135	Yes, dear fellows, the time is up for performances. The closing word is given by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! The Honorable Presidium! Well, first of all, the government listened very carefully to all the comments that were made today, and there were a lot of them. There were many constructive suggestions. We will have a transcript and study it carefully, and we will have a feedback. It was a pleasure to hear the talk today, and this was the first time that I heard criticism or criticism of the national MPs who also took part in the program. That's nice. I'm not going to go into a situation that, in my opinion, is positive today in terms of economics. You, honourable national deputies, have the opportunity to take another step this year to improve this situation along with the government if this program is adopted. The priorities, those set out in the 2003 Program, are all implemented. Today we can criticize and say much about what has not yet been done. I agree with you. I agree, and I agree with those people, the Ukrainians. To whom we have not yet arrived with you. And I apologize to them that we really didn't do what we should have done years ago. But there have been discussions in this room for many years, similar to today’s discussions. The main thing is that we have a year from the river to improve conditions, and the economy is working today. And the figures show that. It is said that no one in this room has refused to do so. The quality of life is the main thing that we need to do today in order for the Ukrainian people to start living much better in the near future. And this is what we all know in our lives, that it can only be done with difficulty every day, 24 hours a day, and there are no miracles here. So we'll work, we'll live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we have a draft of the Unacceptable Implementation Order on this issue. Bogdan Kostinjuk, please state your position. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u138	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinuk. Dear national deputies, distinguished members of the government. For days I received a letter from a resident of Frankiv Stéphanie Baidichuk, and she writes that in our country, people like the juvenile prisoners of the totalitarian regime are living their lives. At the age of 16, she says, "She switched schools for a car where she drove a peat in Mordova, came back from camp, and I didn't have the opportunity to study, nor to find a prestigious job." The state apologized by rehabilitating us, adding as many as nine dollars to our pension. We were paid a ridiculous compensation of 30 dollars for confiscated property. Savings made during life on a black day were lost. It's the black day. I'm a cripple of the first group, like most of us, and I don't have enough medicine pensions. Please note, there are not many of us left. In these former juvenile political prisoners and in many thousands and millions of pensioners, this year’s government took out an average of 30 dollars each month. Dear government officials, remove this decree from the Cabinet of Ministers, which reduced the calculation of pensions from 376 dollars to 306 dollars. Surrender and give the pensioners the money they owe. And the money for that is there, and you know that there are funds. And the 16 percent that you've been talking about there's going to be an increase in pensions this year, they're not going to be able to pay this money off on January 1st of this year. In recent times, government-controlled media have been actively promoting the so-called success of the socio-economic policies of today's authorities. But all these successes, as in the old Soviet days, are nothing more than osmosis and adjectives. Customers of this campaign have little concern about what is actually happening in a society that concerns millions of our fellow countrymen. The result was a rapid rise in the price of bread and other foods. The so - called pension reform has become a pension abuse. However, the conditions for special and special pension schemes for the selected are preserved. The question is, why does the growth of the economy bring about a fall in real retirement and a fall in minimum wage? The 2004 budget in real prices is lower than the budget in practice last year. Where are billions of dollars from the growth of the economy? All this success along with freedom of speech, along with the dark.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Honorary colleagues, national deputies Bogdan Kostinuk and Mikola Martinenko have introduced a draft decree, registration number 5244-p on the inadmissibility of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and its implementation, registration number 5244. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting first on this document. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[14:21:57]] For 109 The factions, please. Let's do the factions. Our Ukraine is 91, the Ukraine is 0, the Communist faction is 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine is 0, the SDPU (o) is 0, the People's Government is 0, the DPO is 0, the Deminitives are 0, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 15, the Agrarian Party is 0, the People's Choice is 0, the NDP is 0, the Postfactional is 3. [[I'm reading pros.]] Please note, I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the registration number of the 5,244 National Deputies Group of Gavrish, Osik, Tereshuk, Sharov and others on the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and its implementation. Two points, I'm reading: the government's work in implementing the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action "Openness, Effectiveness, Performance" in 2003 is considered satisfactory. And the second item is to endorse the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility." Please vote. In general, I put it as a determination. Please vote. [[14:23:15]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 1, Ukraine - 67, Communist faction - 0, Industrial and Entrepreneurs Party - 39, SDPU (o) - 37, People's Government - 22, SPU - 0, Deminiciative - 19, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Agrarian Party - 15, National Choice - 14, NDP - 14, Postfraction - 11. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the government and wish for further joint fruitful activity. [[Applause]] I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, recess until 4:00. Please work in this warehouse after 4:00.
