ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u1	Good evening, dear folk colleagues. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:17:26]] Registered -430 There were 430 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the results of the Conciliation Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The head of the State Property Fund also took part in this meeting. An interesting, fundamental discussion remained virtually the same results that we discussed at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. Therefore, such proposals will be put to the vote. First. We will now consider the President's Law with remarks on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing State Property Objects That Are Not Privatized. Two votes will have to be taken. The first is the President's proposal to reject this law. If the President's proposal is not supported, if he doesn't get 226 votes, then the issue of overcoming the President's veto will be put into this law, which requires 300 votes. After considering the matter, we will determine how to proceed. A proposal was made to review the proposals by the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized, so that consideration of the matter and voting can be carried out in secret. Right? And then we're going to figure out the second. Well, that's not one question, that's two questions. Peter Mikolaiovich, well, I can't. Let's stick to the Rules now. Did I make the right decision? Microphone, please, Peter Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Just at the Conciliation Council, in conclusion of the meetings, we agreed on what would be appropriate, taking into account the situation itself, the complexity of the issue and many other factors that affect the decision-making of individual deputies, to vote on these issues, including what Vladimir Mikhailovich said in secret. And thus, allowing each national MP to express freely his view of this complex problem of privatizing the Crevice Metallurgical Combined. Once again, I stress that we Communists will vote against this privatisation. But given the circumstances, I would like to support the idea of a closed vote of all draft laws that address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u3	Thank you. Just a minute. Assadchev. Then there's Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u4	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you promised to ask questions about your accomplices at 4:00. Either before or after that, but let's solve this question too. Let's get this over with. But we have already promised, so let us also decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u5	But we also promised that at 4:00 we would consider the law with the President's proposals. Let's look at this, and then we'll go back. Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u6	The point is that if we are to consider, for example, the President's proposals for legislation concerning the impossibility of privatizing the "Criminals", then the procedure should be to ensure that the arguments that have just been made at the Prime Minister's meeting are discussed, because many of the deputies obviously do not understand what mistakes have been made right now, gross errors, if they consider it to be the errors of the Fund to be a detainable one. And obviously this could then determine the position of a particular MP. And then, there was the thought that, he said, some weak MP, let him be determined in an open manner so that all people could see and see everything else. That's not the point. If one of the deputies lacks the courage to vote differently, give him the opportunity to vote in secret. This is the norm of most of the parliaments of the world, and for some reason we avoid, by voting we want to control the position of one or the other. Let's support Simonek's proposal for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, once again, I want to say what we agreed on. We are now on the agenda and we are on the agenda of the President of Ukraine's proposal for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized. There is a proposal to consider this issue and vote on this bill, and we will need to hold a maximum of two votes: a deviation of 226 votes is required. If the decision on rejection is not taken, then it is necessary to put the President's veto to the vote, trying to win two thirds of the votes of the national MPs. Let's define with this question, and we're going to have to include those questions in the agenda. And then I'm going to put it on a closed ballot and we're going to vote on it. And then we'll have their discussions so that the MPs are consciously determined. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on a proposal for that. to consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Items of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. [[16:23:54]] For 209 The offer is not supported. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine," 92, "Ukraine" - 0, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Initiatives and Peoples" - 0, "Democratic Initiatives and Peoples" - 2, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, "Centre" - 14, "Soyuz" -0, NDP and industrialists and entrepreneurs - 0, Agrarian Party - 0, non-fractional - 5. Let us turn to this question. Please, who will report from the government? The minister of industrial politics in Ukraine has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies. I will focus on several aspects related to the privatization of the Krivorostal. First. This is because the combination “Criogestal” does not fall under the list of facilities not to be privatized, since it does not meet all the requirements of article five of the second privatization law. Thus, the inclusion of the Krivoroztal combination in public property facilities was carried out without an appropriate economic justification and, in the context of limited financial resources, there was a complete absence of non-State funds for the development of the combination. I would like to emphasize that, to date, almost all metal industry enterprises are enterprises of non-State ownership and, in general, 75 per cent of industry is produced in enterprises of non-State ownership. The financial and economic indicators of the Krivoroztal combination are at one level with privatized enterprises such as Azovstal, Ilicza Plant, Zaporoztal, Donetsk Metalworks, where the privatization of the enterprise has not in any way affected the deterioration of the financial and economic situation of the enterprise and the deterioration of the social conditions of the labour communities that operate in these enterprises. Next moment. Despite the apparent well-being, Krivoroztal is one of the most vulnerable enterprises in the steel industry. Market sensitive, which is very limited in terms of competition. It's braces, locks, and stuffing. He wished to inform the people's deputies that China had almost completed its steel production programme over the past month and year, with an annual increase of 40 million tons per year. It has virtually closed markets, and the supply of our Ukrainian products to the Chinese market and to the south-eastern market has declined dramatically. But the main thing is, if the square price was $400 for another month and a half, it's 280 today. The price of the resupply dropped by $75-65. And that's exactly the same situation on the padlock. Therefore, the downward trend will continue to decline. And I would very much not like to see the combination of Crimsonfoot in the 1998 situation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next moment. Next moment. Only large-scale investments that today, yes, are making a combination of $12-15 per tonne of steel at world-class steel production rates of $35 per tonne of steel. Clearly, as part of the State enterprise, such investments in the plant would not be sufficient for the public and its own working capital. And despite all the technical characteristics, the consumption of coke per tonne of iron, electricity consumption and so on, and so on, is now one of the best among the metallurgical industries. Yes, it is, but they are far from in line with the world's best indicators and the competitiveness of products at cost of production will never be achieved. We have therefore developed investment requirements, participated in the development of investment requirements for potential investors, where all these points have been taken into account and required investors. Therefore, the Ministry of Industrial Policy, yes, and the delay in privatizing Krivoroztal in a shrinking market, I think will inevitably lead to the loss of the investment attractiveness of the combination. And I would very much not like to get the second Makeyevka at the Krivoroztali site, which today is in such a dire state of state ownership. The Ministry of Industrial Policy therefore supports the position of the President of Ukraine to exclude the combination of Krivorostali from the list of facilities not to be privatized. Thank you for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to the Minister of Industrial Policy. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Five minutes to ask. Mikhail Kosov, your question, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u10	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Well, Mr. Secretary, what you're reporting is the difference between what specialists say, because what they call different numbers is still an annual profit from the Crimsons' activities is, well, they're called 400 to 600 million. That's what I'm talking about. In addition, the cost of this facility is also estimated at 30 billion. That's right. And you put it out, not you, but they're putting this 700 million-dollar object on the market. That's right. So it's obvious that this is just a hairy piece that wants to be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u11	Thank you so much for asking. I want to say that I'm also a specialist and a metallurgy engineer who went from a waltz to a factory metal producer, and I also understand a little bit about the figures, and I can do some analysis. I don't know where 600 million dollars came from. 7 billion in 2003 and 5 billion in 2002. [[That's what I call bracelets.]] The fourth month of falling prices has already seen a decline in the yield of the combination. If the price situation, particularly in the world market and 75 per cent of the products of the Chrystal, puts it on the world market, unfortunately, contrary to our hopes, will continue, if we look objectively at this situation, I fear that by the end of the year we will not be talking about billions of profits in the company's bracelets. As far as evaluation is concerned. I'm not an evaluator here. The assessment was carried out by certified firms licensed to carry out an assessment of the approved method.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u12	Colonies, the Ukrainian region's deputy faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u13	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask you to pass on the word of Pecklusenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u14	Alexander Pecklushenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u15	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Regions, Zaporozhye. Today, the situation at Zaporoztal factory, thanks to the literate policy of the investor and the Director-General of Sacko Vitali Antonović, has shown that there are no alternatives to privatization. And that's clear. I'm interested in how the Minister worked out the situation that privatization of "Criminals" would give a specific worker an average salary, which would give the factory in general in terms of investment and budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u16	Of course, we have done this in options, as I have already said, both public enterprises and in the context of attracting investment, and indicative investment levels, as if determined by the requirements. And there's a technical re-arming plan at the company. I want to say that, ideally, up to $100 million a year, we have to spend on technical re-arms at least starting with the machine of continuous casting. We all forgot what the first set of LDCs had done in the Soviet Union, but we are now pouring 20, less than 20 per cent of them, and in Japan they are spilling all 100. We have a metallic permeability factor of 1.45, Japan 1.04. We're 400 kilos of metal free of charge, free of charge, free of charge. How will we be competitive with such technical equipment of our factories? I want to say that the wages in the "Criminal" combination are in no way higher than the wages for Zaporoznaly now, the "Austali" numbers are one order. And these issues are, of course, the statement of the labour community and the preservation of social guarantees and wage increases and certain social guarantees by the investor will not be respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u17	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. I ask the Minister to make more specific answers to questions, to ask, at least in a minute, as the people's deputies do. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u18	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Well, Alexander Leonidovich, I'm not convinced by your answers for one simple reason: I'd like to see in your face a public husband, not a husband who is spoiling what benefits the State today. A few questions. You and I know, and this is a tragedy for us, which Ukraine is producing, let's say, 100 percent of the metal, 85 percent going abroad, 15 percent to the internal market. Thus, as a minister of industrial policy, you kill machinery all: common, agricultural, chemical and other. I'd like to know if you're a minister: please tell me, what is the loading of machinery factories today from installed capacity? This time. And say the ratio of the price of the metal sold abroad to the internal market. And why do we have machines loaded today, as far as I know, up to 30 percent?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u19	I'll answer that. I'll answer, I haven't been two days in four months, so I'll answer that question. You're absolutely right, Petr Nikolaevich. The current loading of machinery is on average 30 per cent: one enterprise is larger and the other one is smaller. Last year was the only first year when the machine industry achieved a 35 per cent growth index, thus changing consumption patterns and market metallurgy to 18 per cent domestic consumption. The aim of creating competitive conditions for machinery companies was to freeze prices before December of last year for enterprises, first of all, construction and so on. These are the measures that are being taken. Provides the Ministry of Industrial Policy with a view to maintaining the internal market infrastructure, primarily machinery. The ratio of domestic and external prices for metal varies from $70 to $100 this year. Internal prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u20	Vernigora, please. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u21	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, from the faction of socialists, a few questions, please be careful. We hoped that Minprompolitics would analyze the economic outlook of our internal market, not just to focus on the international market. Already, the figure just said, 18 percent shows that our internal market is not limited if production is stimulated, such as machinery. And of course the rate of growth from zero probably shouldn't convince anyone, you know that as an analyst. The other one. You say, profitability, profit goes down, trend comes up. How profits can fall when profitability increases. We've just been to the factory and we've seen, we've been talking to experts about this. And finally. Why privatization conditions do not provide income levels, wages, social conditions, the number of jobs to be saved, the term to be saved, and that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u23	Dear Alexander, we've done some readings. Even if the machine-building complex were to load 70 to 80 per cent of the production capacity, it would give only 38 per cent of the consumption of propellant in the steel complex. We are originally, the structure of our steel production, built in the Soviet Union, we are export oriented. And without external markets, just from the inside, we will never survive. That's the first one. I used to call it the fall that happened in the fourth and now the fifth months. Yes, the profitability of 30 per cent and last year it increased. It grew in the first quarter when prices were stable and stopped rising. Now the price has gone down. And the downward trend will continue. So, social issues on wage levels, on all matters relating to wages. There is a requirement that a statement from the “Crivorostali” labour group conference listing the issues of all social guarantees be listed, the issues and views of the labour community on the participation in the competition for the sale of only the Ukrainian investor and the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the Gosimacy Foundation will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u24	Thank you. Sit down, time's up. The committee’s report is given by the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property, and investments by Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u25	Dear Ukrainian People's Deputies, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! As early as March 2004, the Committee on Economic Policy considered the proposal of the President of Ukraine to amend the Law on the List of State Property Rights Objects Unprivatized. The Committee decided, by majority, to recommend acceptance of the President's proposal and to repeal the Ukrainian Amendment Act amending the list of public property objects which were not subject to privatization adopted by the Supreme Council on 20 November 2003. However, the views of the members of the Committee were divided. We understood the pressure placed on the members of the committee, and therefore we understand that proposals will be made by deputies for the adoption of the law. Indeed, the Committee has received seven draft laws through the Supreme Council, which confirm the need to privatize this company, Krivorostal. In addition, these proposals contain very good indicators that speak of the following. First. The work of this State enterprise is often better and, in other cases, not worse than in the best privatized metallurgical combinations. And this is confirmed today by specialists from other metalworking combinations of the country. First. Second. A question that no one will be able to answer today: "How will privatization affect the metal market and the position of the Ukrainian metal industry in this market?" Third. The Minister's observation that privatization will return that the Krivorozian Metalworks is not part of the list of enterprises which are public, it today does not require confirmation of the status of the State, because it is still a State enterprise, and we hope that it will remain a State enterprise. The analysis of the situation today around this metal combination shows that it is likely that State-owned shares will be acquired to resell them. Today, we have these sad examples in Ukraine. I would like to remind you of the experience of selling the Nikolaev clay plant, when $70 million a year was lost on net profit, in order to obtain $100 million for the privatization of the state stock package. Today, the investment obligation for clay, the sale of the clay plant is not being met, the aluminium combination or the primary aluminium production plant in Kharkiv region is not being built. I'm afraid I'm running out of time. There is such a proposal from the Committee. We're trying to beat the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u26	Allow me to finish the phrase, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u27	If the President's veto is not overcome, then any of the seven, or each of the seven proposed new drafts of the law on the inadmissibility of privatization, shall be put to the vote. I mean, it's actually a new law. As provided by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. True, this is not the decision that the committee made. No, it's not. You've considered this question on 14.04. Question, please to the co-rapporteur, three minutes. Please sign in. Please indicate the name of the national MPs on the board. Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u29	Sobolev, Our Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear reporter, have you analyzed at least four or five of the largest companies in the metallurgical complex how these companies pay their taxes? Because when we're told about modernization, how much do new owners who sit in offshores and don't pay taxes? That is why I am interested in five of the largest metal - mining giants in Ukraine. What taxes do each of these companies pay directly? And in comparison to that, is it "Criminal"? I think it will open the eyes of many to the need for such a unique enterprise to privatize and embezzle the property of the state, or should it be prohibited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u30	You're absolutely right here. I can give an example, only, of a comparison with the Mariugal Metalworks Unit, which is privatized not through an off-shore zone, but rather by a Communist group. And there's actually a tax pay today that goes in line with the law, not like the ones that stole our powers and formed them in off-shore zones. That's the first one. Second. The "Criminal" regularly pays taxes in accordance with the law. Businesses that are profitable. Thirty per cent of the rate of profitability. To privatize such an enterprise is simply to put this entire profit in someone's pocket, taking it from the State, taking it from the people, from the Ukrainian people. That's the first one. Second thing I'd like to say. There was talk of the need for self-investment of the Crimson Coastal increased its assets by 120 million bracelets last year. Independently, without attracting foreign investment or assistance from the State. This process, if the State takes less taxes to update production, can be further intensified. That is, the competitive capacity of this enterprise can grow on the basis of the economic indicators that they themselves earn.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u31	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u32	I repeat. I have a situation in front of me at Zaporoztal factory, a privatized factory. The best social sphere, the best hospitals, the best holiday homes, the best working conditions. That's why I have the next question. Most often, there is an argument that there is no need to privatize, because there is good today. Where is the guarantee that tomorrow will be good? That's the first one. Second argument. You don't have to privatize because it's going to be resold. So let's talk about the terms of the competition, the sales mechanism, not just the point of not privatizing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u33	Got it. I answer in a popular way. First. No one guarantees that privatization will lead to the owner of good faith. No one can give that assurance. Today, the Crimson Castle is a city-based enterprise. He's working on it, the work of the Creatures is connected, if not half, to at least a third of the people living in the Horn of Curve. Whom will we today guarantee this third that, once privatized, the situation will not worsen? We can't give that guarantee, we just can't give it. That's the first one. Second. "Locked up" was really lucky. But I'm going to give you an example of the same clay plant that dumped the entire social sphere today, that's not financing anything, that money went to Russia. And instead of the “kurral” of the firm “Ukraine”, today “Rosaluminium” manages all this business, today the financial plan of this company is being built in Moscow and as Moscow needs it, not as it needs to be done in the Ukraine. Who's gonna make sure we don't get there?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u34	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, sit down, please. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the discussion. 15 minutes to talk. Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor. Prepare Alexander the Frost. Chibko's microphone. Are you going to perform? Do you pass the word to Alexander Frost? Turn on Vitaly Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u35	Respectable comrades! Sibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovsk. I, as an MP who is anchored by our faction behind Dneproperty, often have to be in the Horn of Curve, and part of it has to meet both the workers of the Creatures, and the people who worked on the Creatures, and today they are retired. What was surprising about the words spoken by the minister today? Well, first of all, I have the impression that there is no analysis in the Ministry today, as the prices for metal products, including metal products on the external market, which are made on the Crimsonstocks. In particular, I would like to say about the fittings that are produced in Crimsonstall and Crimsonstall are the only enterprises that produce this fitting. So today, this product on the outside market goes into circulation, and I once got the prices of the organization that controls today, which is being sold from Ccrivogestali to Qatar, who sent his request for a large party of fittings to build houses there. And do you know what the price was? There was a price of $480 a tonne. And now you're calling $70 a ton. So could there be a tendency to lower the price of metal products by increasing the price of energy, by increasing the price of coke all the time? It's some kind of paradox, it can't be like that at all. At the same time, you call! I'd like the audience that's working in the Horn of Curve and the buyers who are buying this fitting to know that it turns out that the price that's sold there is $70 per tonne. Then let them come and buy at that price. That's what you just said in your speech. Secondly, I would like to point out that to date it is possible to sell the business only in order to resell it in third hands. I know these firms that have already learned how to do this, and so far they are willing to profit from what is low at a price, as it happened to the Nicolai Ferroelectrica factory to buy and then to resell at a fabulous price, which is sold entirely abroad and abroad. And thirdly, it's the social sphere that's throwing itself at the Crimson House today. Did you consider the conditions that are there, in the State Property Fund, that, as far as layoffs are concerned, how much area is lost? Read it, announce it. Why didn't you say so when you were asked a question? This is the main fault, which is the reason that today's non-privatization of this plant is needed, especially because it works with profits. Profits are made for renewal of production. Where this is done when there are profits, they privatize.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u36	Alexander Moroz, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the word. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u37	Honorable fellow MPs and those who listen to us! Our faction held a field meeting at the Chrysalistal, and we have a lot of fresh impressions. During my time and political activities, and not only did I have to go to many businesses. I want to say that with equal organization and social issues in this company, it's hard to find anything like this in Ukraine. It's really a giant industry, which is a fundamental enterprise for the development of the state. Even today, it would be obvious that both the government and the State Property Fund would have to think about the prospect of what Ukraine would be like later. And when we hear here that one of the reasons for privatization is the danger of falling in terms of metal, rolling especially on the world market, there's obviously not many nuances. Following the expansion of European society, the European Union, capital from countries with high technology in Germany, France, Italy flows to new members of the Union. And there's going to be a lot of production going on, and there's going to be construction going on, and there's going to be a lot of production going on, and there's going to be a lot of production going on, and there's going to be a lot of production going on, and there's going to be a lot of production going on, and there's going to be a lot of production Another point is that if we were smarter and properly guided by our own internal policies, these flows of capital could take Ukraine. But an investor abroad does not want to go to us for reasons that are not economic but are related to corruption and other activities. So there's obviously no calculation here. And one more detail in this context. If the global market is down, and the business is on the world market, it will not invest capital in expanding this production, in modernizing it, because it is a specific complex. And whoever was there, and who knows the essence of this production, realizes that there's a change in profile or something that's not possible, a profile of production. This needs to be sustained by the appropriate time, and the modernization that the combination has already provided allows all the fluctuations in the world market to be met with dignity, as has been done by the efforts of the same group in previous years. Finally, when we speak, only the Ukrainian investor should privatize this enterprise. As we speak here just now in the presence of the Prime Minister, we have made it clear that there are no guarantees. For this, there's an example of an aluminum combination, that's what he's talking about. They can also buy with our owner -- and it'll go into someone else's hands, and we're not going to manage and define politics in this market. So I am convinced that the way out is either to overcome the President's veto, or to accept at least the conditions for consideration of the human beings, as discussed, for privatization. Well, you can't do any harm by defending the interests of one man only in Ukraine. Well, it's a disgrace to Parliament if he accepts it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u38	Yes, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine. ” Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u39	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! It's just that you're being taken away from the most profitable business and you're silent today. Today, it's just that they're taking away a company that's more unique in the world and it's in the 20s, it's in the 30s of at least steel production, at least at the rate of 20. The main advantage is that this combination should ensure the sovereignty and security of this state. It has to provide economic security for the state and has strategic significance for it. And I was very sorry that the President signed a letter saying that the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization was approved by the Supreme Council only by the submission of the Cabinet. Where, then, is the constitutional right of a national MP to make proposals. It's obvious that that's what they wrote. And he goes on to write that a combination that has no national significance is not a criminal enterprise, does not guarantee the State's performance of its functions and its economic independence, nor does it provide a material basis for Ukraine's sovereignty. And that's why you don't have to wear it. I heard Minister Neustayev today, and I was terrified for our industrial policy. More specifically, I've come to understand why it's becoming more and more non-ours today, more Russian, more and more Israeli. I understand exactly why. I understand why colleagues from the Russian Federation called and said, "Tell me what you're doing because we already have customers ready here. Already repurchasing this object. So what's going on? There's Putin still, thank God, planting these oligarchs, and you're growing them all the time. Therefore, the honourable national deputies, what needs to be overcome by the veto, are clear. Look at the volume of produce of 7.4 billion, and the pace will continue to rise to 27.25 percent, and what are we talking about? I've introduced a 2405-15 project where we're proposing with National Deputy Gurvoy and School that the government not only look at this object, but submit to the Supreme Council until everything is understood, the principles of deferral in order to protect national interests and the defence of the state, its economic independence and to ensure that such enterprises are controlled by the most profitable objects that are owned by the state. You and I will reduce the government budget only this year to nearly half a billion, and we are calm about it and we are not making any changes to the State Budget Act right now. What are we doing, my dear friends? Let's stop this and beat the President's veto. If not, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u40	Yuri Solomatin is referring to Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists, please. Prepare Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u41	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to emphasize that the fundamental position of our faction is that we will not vote in favour of criminal acts at any level by officials. We also met in the working group in Krivo Rog, we know the situation, the city party organization is fully supported by the workers of the factory in order not to privatize the combination. Second question of principle. No economic indicator of the combination's activities today suggests that it will work poorly. The reconstruction has been carried out, huge funds have been invested, new opportunities have been created, including technological opportunities, and today the main thing is to use them properly in order to enrich the internal market rather than just to talk about the external market for realisation. Second problem. We must not be left out that this combination is a city-based enterprise, and the state of the workplace and the economy of the enterprise depends largely on how the citizens of the city of Curve Horn live. What's going on? I just got back from Pavlovgrad. And when Pavlogradugla is privatized in an unconscionable way, social infrastructure is thrown into the local budget, while the price of coal is not reduced to a penny. That is, those who privatize throw social infrastructure back on their necks, as they say, and low wages, the same workers, and put all this profits in their pockets. Naturally, capital and private capital for this enterprise will, I am convinced, bring about the hardships that privatization has brought to all the people of Ukraine. This is a problem of unemployment, a problem of social needs and specific facilities in the city of Krivo Roge. It's a wage problem, it's an inflation problem and a lot more. It seems to me that the Ministry of Industrial Policy has shown its incompetence when, without worrying about filling the internal market with metal and ensuring the normal operation of machinery factories, it is now only thinking about putting these enterprises in the hands of so-called investors. Then I ask you a question. Why don't you pick up the Constantinov Metalworks Plant, whose variety is needed today by the entire machinery industry in Ukraine? Why don't you pick up and call investors to pick up this factory and sell the best today, trashing the core values? I therefore believe that such a policy will ultimately lead Ukraine to a commodity country, not a country that sells the final product. The Communist faction will categorically vote against it and calls upon all conscious people's deputies not to allow two clans, two mobs today, to practically, so to speak, to take the plant and leave it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u42	The word is Anisim, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u43	Anisimov, 30th constituency, Dneprodžinsk, basic education - metal-lurg. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! In the Minister's report, there were many examples of spending factors in iron production textbooks, steel, rolling back in the early 1980s, which are very far from what we can see in the steel industry today. These factors were relevant to the Soviet authorities, and now the issue needs to be addressed on the other hand. With the profitability of the steel industry, between 20 per cent and 40 per cent of the wage spent is so small that it cannot be compared to the wages of the steel industry operating in the West. Nevertheless, by operating on these facts, the rapporteur is trying to hide the huge surplus that the owners of the metallurgical enterprises receive. You don't have to cheat on that, Mr. Secretary. The same can be said of the social sphere. As soon as the owner comes to the business, I stress, not the investor, but the owner, he immediately throws the social sphere into the utility property, and almost always does not hand over a penny to repair the apartment. Next. With respect to the collection of trade union signatures and so on. We all know how this is done and where these signatures go. That's not an argument either. And with regard to investing money in development and modernization, this fact is generally “obsessed by the ears”. Let the rapporteur state, as a percentage, how much is invested in the enterprise compared to the value of the core funds of those enterprises, and everything will immediately be in place. And let him say, like enterprises that are privatized, then cut into scrap metal and sell abroad for nothing, and how many of these examples can we bring in mass. And the last. The price at which an enterprise is privatized is generally twenty-two times cheaper than the current property of those enterprises. I'm talking to my colleagues. Let us vote once, contrary to the Hebelsian expression, that fear is stronger than conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, the time for consideration is exhausted. And since the author of this law was Vadim Gurov, please turn on the microphone and then the head of the Special Control Commission. Microphone, please. Please, here. What difference does it make? A minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. I want to say one thing. I wasn't really touched by the idea that how many tons they give, where they give them, who takes them, steals them, or anything else. I was touched by our minister's statement. I can do anything, but it's illegal for anyone to kill the Crimson with me. What's the question? The question is as follows. It's not the right thing to do to privatize. If only we, MPs, had been told that we had to replace management because there were so few people there. That's what I'm saying. The Director was recognized as the best director of Europe and Ukraine, and the plant was recognized as the best firm in Ukraine this year. That is, the question goes away automatically. The second question could be said. Fellow MPs, the penalty is empty, there is no money at all, and we need to give money to our grandparents. Let's take two billion dollars, let's multiply by five-- that's ten billion bracelets to be distributed under control. Shall we not vote with you? One hundred percent would vote. No, they're making up all kinds of shit that this factory is bad, and no one needs it. They need a savior. I mean, no savior is better than the "Crimsons" team has ever been, never will! Because it can't be. [[Applause]] And now this fifty-fifty-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand is listening. He's told he's a fool. Do we have the right to say that? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u46	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u47	This combination cannot be privatized; it is a crime. You can't touch him. Why? I'm explaining. Because this is the Stahans of our industry. And that now Austal, Zaporoztal, Ilicha, is chasing them because there are Stahanov. Let's destroy Stahanov - everyone else will fall to ten percent, five percent of the cost. The budget will lose so much you don't even know. We can't let that happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u48	Thank you, yes. Valentina Seminouk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u49	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, yesterday we examined in detail at the meeting of the special review committee the terms of the competition that have been submitted. And when we're looking in this session room with you, where we're going to take a few, they say, copies to pay the salary, today, preparing for such privatization under such conditions, we're just destroying the fullness of the budget. Under the terms of the competition, there is no guarantee to those in the 50 ’ s that they will have the same salary tomorrow. Under the terms of the competition, they are not guaranteed a salary. Under this sessional hall, some of the members of the previous vocations remember that there were many people who demanded a raise in wages and pensions. By voting today, we can take away the wages and pensions of all those who work on this combination and the whole city.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of this matter, time is running out. I've given those who were registered to be registered. Dear colleagues, we've been discussing this for an hour. If you want, let's keep going, let's keep going. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the President's proposal to reject the project is the first to be voted on, more specifically, by the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. That's why I'm voting on a motion by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. [[17:10:36]] For-195 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? The factions? May I have your attention, please? "Our Ukraine" - 0, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 56, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 39, "The Hard Ukraine" - 29, "Deminiciates" - 21, "The People's Government" - 0, "The House" - 0, "The Center" - 0, "The Union" - 13, "PDP" - 14, "The Agrarian Party - 16, "The Faction - 7. May I have your attention, Your Honor? Attention, here comes the vote. I'll take the vote, please. I am voting for a proposal to defeat the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized. [[17:11:57]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions. Just a minute. “Our Ukraine” - 98, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, “Deminitiates” - 0, “Deminitiates” and “The People’s Government” - 1, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Centre” - 12, “Soyuz” - 0, NDPs and industrialists - 0, Agrarian Party - 0, “Afterfractional” - 3. Write your motives, please. Three minutes. On the board, please. Yuri Carmazin. Masenko will have his word on the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u51	Yuri Carmazin. Please pass the word to the People's Deputy, "Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u52	Peter Porcelain. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The problem is not only that the budget loses four billion dollars, not just because the population of Ukraine is being robbed, but because privatization is being done with a brutal violation of legislation, particularly the deprived rights of all Ukrainian citizens, and I would like you to hear it: according to law, each of you has the right to apply for a competition, to participate in a competition, and to become a shareholder of the "Cruvoristal" combination. The holding fund in breach of legislation has deprived you of this opportunity to give Ukraine's best metallurgy to financial and industrial groups in an untransparent procedure. And the actions of Parliament today are aimed specifically at protecting your rights and putting an end to the violation of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u54	Masenko, the Communist faction. The next thing you know, it's gonna be a bad word. Simonenko, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u55	Please pass the word to Gmiri Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u56	Gmir's National Deputy, Communist faction. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u57	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say two things. First. Today, during this vote, an unprecedented fact occurred, in my view, that the outgoing President of Kuchma had bribed himself with a bill of money worth billions of dollars. What happened was simply a disgrace. And the second. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think the voting system has failed. As I recall, yesterday, the Joint Social Democrats, in response to the statement by Poroshenko, stated that they were against two things: the privatization of the budget committee and the privatization of the “Crivorostali”. I can't believe my colleagues lied. So they must have made a mistake. Let's re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u58	The word Semenyuk is quick to pass, isn't it? Please, Valentin Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u59	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you with a compromise. Deputies Semenyuk, Gurov, Bastriga, Nadrag introduced draft law No. 5043-3 of 4.03.2003 on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. This is an inclusion in the list of objects that may be corporate, that is, our site of the Civoristal Enterprise may be included in the list of objects that are not subject to the privatisation of List 2. That's the compromise you can find in the hall today. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's take a look at this proposal and include item number two in the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on the procedure. We've got--please, attention! - we have a number of draft regulations concerning the privatisation of the Crimsons. I call these draft decrees: 2405-15, 2405-15-p, 2405-15-p1 draft decree 2405-15-p2 and draft decree 2405-15-p3. [[by Karmazin, Gurov, School]] [[authors - Semenjuk, Turkinov, Tkachenko, Sovkovic, Yehanurov, Nadrag]] [[author - National MP Borschewski]] [[author - Alexander Baranowski]] [[author - national deputy Šibko]] Since, your honor, I'd like your attention, please. - this question has already been asked, and my deputies, Alexander Zinchenko and Adam Ivanovich, have been asking questions about the return to this question, so I will also ask. First, a motion will be put to the vote for a return to the consideration of these rulings that I have called. May I have your attention, please? I called yours, too. After we get back. We've checked all the transcripts. When we return, the decision will then be taken to include in the daytime schedule. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on who's to go back to the draft regulations that I've just named for the privatisation of the Chrysalis. We go back to the question of putting them into the agenda. [[17:18:33]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Now, take your time, I'll read it with your permission. Our Ukraine - 98, Ukraine - 0, Communist - 59, Labour - 0, Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine - 0, SPU - 20, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 19, Centre - 13, Union - 0, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 1, Agrarian - 0, NDP - 0, Postfaction -3. [[united]] From the procedure, please log in, let's exchange thoughts for five minutes. On the board, please. Eugene Jovtjak, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u61	Please pass the word to Basil Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u62	Basil Red, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u63	Thank you. My dear friends, after such a vote, I think it would be worth it on the pages of Voice of Ukraine to publish a roll-call list under the heading "They Betrayed Ukraine's National Interests", those deputies who are in favour of the so-called privatization of the "Criminals." The Ukrainian People's Party to which I belong is definitely against this kind of "admission." Please show us one country on the map of Europe that would allow for such privatization, where for one or two years of income. A super-profit enterprise is privatised at such a price. In eight years of her reign, Margaret Thetcher allowed only one enterprise to privatize, and Parliament’s discussions lasted several years. I'm like a man.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u64	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u65	Dear people's deputies, the President of his time, when he was on the Summit, we were present, listening to his speech, and I loved it when our President said, "You understand that I'm not doing everything I want to do. I work under pressure from other countries because sometimes I can't solve all the problems on my own." In this case, I'm addressing the President and the factions that support him. In this case, no one pressures you, you can make a decision about what you said at the time and what people liked. And why is this issue resolved without the opinion of the working group? We see today how many problems in every area, in every region of privatized enterprises, on wages, in such an unwarranted attitude towards people, in the social sphere. And today a faction of Communists can only support this. And the decisions we are discussing should be voted on again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u66	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u67	I ask that you pass the word to Valentina Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u68	Valentina Seminouk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u69	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! When we were discussing the list of objects that were not privatized, especially in the cryo-christals, we broke the offer I was making. I mean, they didn't finish the question. Because we've registered Bill 5043-3, which is identical to what we've been looking at on the President's veto. So let's just say that, given the corporate situation at this company, let's include it in the number two list. And that's going to be the compromise option. And don't break the procedural issue that we need to consider today. Let's also consider the bill prepared by Semenyuk, Gurov, Bastrig, Nadrag. These are representatives of both the majority and the minority. I think it's going to be a compromising decision. And then we'll go back to the regulations, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, Turkinov, please, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u71	Turkinov, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I started my work biography on the combination of "Croebristal." Even in Soviet times, it was the best combination of all of Europe. Now it's the best business in Ukraine. Who benefits from this privatization? A state that loses billions of dollars in its budget? No, it's not. A working group that's sold along with the company? Neither did I. This is conveniently exclusive to Kuchmi and his family, who privatize this object and actually rob Ukraine and take it in their pocket. Dear colleagues, there is now practical, demonstration corruption. When Kuchma promises our law prohibiting privatization so that his son - in - law can privatize and, more faithfully, steal this object. This is a disgrace to the parliament that sees this horror. Next, dear colleagues. Our faction will not vote in favour of any bill until we have passed either a law prohibiting privatization or a decree. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we demand that we put to the vote decisions that may be considered in connection with the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u72	Warm up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u73	The faction of our Ukraine. You don't? None. Puzakov, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u74	Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u75	Yuri Solomatin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. We are now in a very strange situation where a certain proportion of people, modern fat cats, are defined by President Kuchma Leonid Danilovich at the beginning of his presidency, but then there were few, and now, according to the State Tax Administration, millions more than two thousand two hundred in Ukraine, including 300 among the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can these people, or can this powerful summit, this so - called self - captured national elite decide this issue for the benefit of the people? No, it's not. So let's get rid of the illusions that they can do that and ask the labor force to start an untimely strike to support the ban requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, everything you asked us to do seems to have been put to the vote for a return to the question. Regrettably, the support of the Supreme Council has not been obtained. I'm asking because we agreed to listen to the question of combining the positions of national MPs. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Activities of the Supreme Council of Matthew Valentin Grigorovovich to make an appropriate report in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Despite the complexity of this problem, I would like to give you at least five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u79	Please, as long as it takes for the chairman of the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u80	Thank you. First of all, respectable colleagues who are provided with legal standards to resolve the issue of the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities and the permanent cessation of the powers of the national MP. Article 78 of the Constitution establishes that the Ukrainian National Deputies exercise their powers on a permanent basis and cannot have another representative mandate or be in the service. Requirements for non-compliance with other types of activity are established by law. Part of the first article 81 is also defined by the cases of the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, and I would like to remind you of this: first of all, it's the formation of the authority of his personal statement, I emphasize, according to his personal statement. The second is the taking of legal power by a judgment of the accused. The third is that his conviction is ineffective or unknowingly lacking. The fourth is the cessation of his citizenship or permanent residence outside Ukraine. And the last, the fifth, in the event of death. Part four of the same article of the Constitution establishes that in the event of failure to comply with the requirement of nonconformity of a parliamentary mandate with other activities of a national MP’s mandate, they are suspended on the basis of a court’s decision. The Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine also establishes the procedure for putting an end to the powers of the national deputy for the term. In particular, in accordance with part one of the first law of part one of the first part of article five of this Law, the decision to suspend the powers of a national MP in cases also provided for in paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Law, i.e. a personal written reply and so forth, I have already listed them, calling them the corresponding article of the Constitution. In particular, part two of this article of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies provides that in the event of a failure to comply with the requirement of nonconformity of a national MP’s mandate, it is also suspended in time on the basis of law on the basis of a court’s decision. The Regulatory Committee examines the relevant materials and concludes with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who applies to the court for a period of ten days or returns the materials to the committee for reasons of refusal to refer the case to the court. In the event of a return by the Chief of the Supreme Council of the Committee’s materials with such grounds, the Committee considers them and, in the event of disagreement, suggests that the matter be considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the Supreme Council’s decision in this case, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to appeal to the court to decide on the question of the early termination of the mandate of such a national deputy. Thus, honourable colleagues, no so-called "package" vote on the early suspension of the powers of the national deputy or group of even national deputies, cannot be because it would be a gross violation of the Constitution and the relevant laws of Ukraine and, in particular, the law on the status of the Ukrainian national deputy. I mean, today, you and I, Your Honor, have just cause for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine just a question about the statement made by the national MP, Tolstouchov. With regard to the status of matters relating to the reconciliation of positions of national deputies with other activities of the Rules Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u81	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u82	I am also prepared to report to you, distinguished national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u83	So, respectable colleagues, come on, sign up, please. Three minutes to ask if there is. Please. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u84	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." As I understand it, we have all the formal reasons, and even the constitutional duty, to vote today in favour of depriving Tolstoy of the term of office for his personal claim. Those who do not vote will violate the Constitution and the law. This is the first one. The other one. Please tell me, for example, whether the prime minister or the vice-premier does not constitute a parliamentary mandate, how to interpret the President's actions. On the other hand, then, is the President of Ukraine likely obliged to release them from their positions in government? And I would like to comment: what happens if Tolstouchov, there, and other very distinguished people don't leave the MP's mandate? Should we then obligate the Head of the Supreme Council, or should he himself be obliged to ask the President to be removed from office in the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u85	Thank you, Boris Jacobovich, for asking. Well, first of all, I think this is where we're supposed to be on our Tolstoy College. His statement is, the relevant decisions and submission of the Rules Committee to the Supreme Council. And as for the failure to comply with those constitutional or other legal standards by other national MPs, we have only one way with you: either they make such statements, or we are considering this with you in another established order, as I said. Therefore, on March 2nd of this year, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, addressed the committee with a letter of request to consider the question of the compatibility of Kluviv, Slavuta, Zločevski, Moisik, Onopenak positions of national deputies with the positions of high-ranking civil servants and judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. On March 17th, the commission was adopted by the Committee, having considered the problem in its entirety, made the appropriate decision and invited the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer to the Kyiv Court of Appeal for a timely suspension of the powers of the elected national deputies of Ukraine, which I also referred to by reference to the requirements of the Constitution and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u86	Yes, Lechchenka, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u87	Please pass the word to Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u88	Valerius Mishura microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u89	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Dear Valentin Grigorovich, I ask you to explain this to me. The Constitution is a direct act document. You explain to me why I should vote in the room and confirm the desire, say, the same Tolstoy to take it off myself, it says "on application." He made a statement -- it's already a fact that, let's say, he withdrew his authority. Or, say, a person died. Or let's say that's where all these things fit in. Let's say that if such a fact is established in some order - either in court or in any way - why is it the Supreme Council, which has not approved the mandate of the deputies, has to vote to withdraw those powers. I don't understand. If you applied, why vote? Explain to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u90	Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich, for asking. But I want to remind you that the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine are the same for everyone. The Supreme Council should make an appropriate decision on the termination of the powers of a particular national MP. And the rulings, as you know, of the Supreme Council, of the supreme legislative body of our country are taken by a majority of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! Thank you, time's up. Regardless of our political decision to put to the vote a package on the early termination of the powers of the national deputies, we do not have such a right, and we have a draft decree, and there is a statement by the People's Deputies of Tolstouchov that the powers of the people's deputies are suspended on time. Therefore, in accordance with the decision of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tolstouchov. [[Registration number 5589]] Please vote. [[17:37:39]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 98, Ukraine - 0, Communist - 59, Democratic Social Party Ukraine -35, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, SPU - 20, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 17, Centre -0, Union -6, NDP and PPU - 0, Agriculture -3, Postfraction -5. [[united]] Dear National Deputies! We've been considering today the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the General Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment. It was project number 4350. For various reasons, especially political ones, we were unable to make a positive decision on this issue, but during the Conciliation Council meeting, the factions' boards asked us to go back to the matter and adopt it because it was absolutely necessary. If you have no objection, I will put to the vote a return to this bill. Please vote. [[17:39:31]] For 193 I want to draw the attention of the majority factions -- this is a project by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill was rejected. Please turn on the King's Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, for several months now, we have not been able to give you any reason to consider the issue of Ukraine's Shareholder Bank. On February 17th, we adopted 401 votes in order to give the most bankrupt bank "Ukraine" money. But the President vetoed his proposals. Today there is a request, it is agreed with both the profile committee, and with the government, to accept with the President's proposals and to return to the charities, to the district councils, to the farmers their money is legal. So I'm asking you to just move this question, right now vote it, and then go back to the everyday issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u93	Just a minute. Dear colleagues, what will be your will? We were just looking at the President's proposals on "Criminals." We would logically consider this law today. If you don't mind. Is there no objection? For reasons, please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You can see that the question of the Chrysalis today attracts attention not only to this room, but also to the entire population. Now it is not ruled out that some factions will not vote until the issue of the Crusades is resolved. There's a compromise offer. Today, at 3:20 p.m., a meeting took place with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, where an agreement was reached to create a working group to try to compromise on the issue of Croatstally on the terms of the competition. There's an offer. If we now agree that tomorrow we will listen to the work of this working group and come back tomorrow morning to vote for the Crusades, if this agreement is reached, so that we can continue in the normal mode. Request to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u95	I don't think we're going to have an extraordinary regime. I would then ask Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk, to prepare a draft decree for the creation of such a working group, namely that the Prime Minister has given his consent. Please, and by the end of the day, we will be voting on this working group to have the right reasons and to work out and make the right proposals. What are we going to hear tomorrow when we didn't create this task force? Please work, we'll make a decision. Moreover, the Prime Minister supported such an offer. Ukraine's Act of Amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Settlement of Debt for Depositary Persons and Other Creditors of Ukraine's Business Agribusiness Bank, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 10.03, is under review. In 2004 Please, who will be speaking from the committee? Is there a cabbage? The King, please. Number 4178 in section "To review the President's proposals. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I understand that, like the Bank of Ukraine, this law has nothing to do with it being adopted. I'm willing to make proposals and MPs, give you any information on the Bank of Ukraine, all of it. But today there was a question that was being considered in this room. [[401 Votes Supported]] The question that each of you approached me, and I told you what the situation was. The question was that the cost of implementing this law was 50 million. This is what we need to give to farmers, charities, rural councils, and those most needed. If we do not accept the law today, they will be cheated tomorrow. This is Sergey Burjak, who has discussed this issue, supported the government with the President's proposals. They're not important enough to change psychology. So trust me, the head of the interim commission of inquiry, whose members are representatives of all factions who would unanimously ask you to uphold this law and remove this problem. Because absurdity, money is, desire is, there is no time. I'll be very grateful for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let's trust the King. What's more, all the President's remarks are taken into account, and we'll make the right decision. Please, Alexander Frost, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u98	Vladimir Mikhailovich, an extremely important question. There's no doubt about it. But the consideration of the preceding questions shows that we may not be able to gather voices right now. Let's vote it in the morning, let's look at another question. Well, you don't have to take that chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, I would ask you, but we agreed, I put everything to the vote, let's not be hostages making people at least for that matter. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Settlement of Debt for Depositary Persons and Other Creditors of the Ukrainian Commercial Agro-industry Bank "Ukraine". Registration number 4178. Please vote. [[17:46:07]] For 423 Well, what unity, you see. It is announced for the consideration of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, with proposals by the President dated 04.03 2004. Yes, is Budjigan Philip Philippovich there? Please, Philip Philipovich. Very short. If you count, we'll vote in a new line. This is 2041-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment considered the observations made by the President of Ukraine before the Act amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. The committee, in principle, agrees with the President's proposals. Yes, indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine cannot be excluded from the number of organs. They're doing government policy in the lease area. With regard to the exclusion from the law of the position that a whole property complex or a structural unit as an entity of leases also includes buildings, premises, this position may be challenged. The president refers to the Codex Masters. You know, so far, there are contradictions between the rules of the Master's Code and the Civil Code. The same is true of the president’s third observation of the renter’s authorization in relation to state property. The position of the committee on these issues was this: to agree with the comments of the President of Ukraine, not to delay the process of signing the law, but to remove any existing contradictions in the Ukrainian Rent Act. This is a normal natural process of lawmaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, since all the proposals of the President's committee have been taken into account, we have every reason to put the matter to the vote in such a way as to approve, in a new edition, the Law of Ukraine amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. Registration number 2041-1. Please vote. The President's proposals are all taken into account. [[17:48:45.]] For-84 The law is rejected. Please, Philip Pilipovich, on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Property Act with the President's Proposals of 16.12.2003, bill number 2030. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u102	The Supreme Council Committee reviewed the President’s proposals since December 16, 2003. Presidential proposal: The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Property Act is proposed to reject. Leading Scientific and Experimental Authority in its conclusion of 01.03. In 04, he noted that the requirement of repealing the Ukrainian Law “To amend the Ukrainian Property Act” was only based on the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine was considering a project that envisaged the repeal of Ukraine's own law itself, "Probability" could not be considered to be duly justified, but that, at its meeting, the Committee had supported the proposals of the President of Ukraine and had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the decision of the Supreme Council of 20 November 2003 on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law "To amend the Ukrainian Property Act" should be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee that matches the proposals of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Property Act, the registration number of the 2030 document. Please vote. [[17:50:29]] For-157. The law is rejected. It is announced for the consideration of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for Further Exploitation and Removal of the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES to an Environmentally Safe System, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 08.04. In 2004, registration number 3641. Yes, from the committee, please, who's the reporter? Is there a Boyko? Victor Alexiovich. Now let's see what this project offers, what proposals. Dear colleagues, all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine for this law are taken into account. The committee proposes to adopt this law, which is sponsored by the Cabinet of Ministers, in a new edition with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I am voting on this proposal, i.e. to adopt, in a new edition of the President's proposal, the Law of Ukraine amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES into an Environmentally Safe System. Registration number 3641. Please vote. [[17:52:11]] For 185 The law is rejected. The Ukrainian International Contracts Act has been announced for consideration with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 4.03.2004. Registration number 0924. Igor Ostaš, please. Yes, there is no Igor the Rest. Now let's see what proposals are made here. Wait, please. There were two proposals: the first proposal, the President, rejected, the second proposal taken into account. So I'm going to turn down the President's proposal now. This is a proposal by the President of this content: "Point (c) of the second article of the law after the words "receiving Ukraine from foreign states" to be supplemented by the word "bank." I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:53:31]] For a hundred and This proposal is not supported, so I am voting for the adoption in a new edition, taking partial account of the Ukrainian President's proposals on Ukraine's international contracts, registration number 0924. Please vote. [[17:54:04]] For-200 The law is rejected. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Social Protection of Victims of Nazi Persecution, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 1503.2004, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 3383. Reporter Nadrag, please. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our committee, it can be called something agreeable, but that it is not unique, so I would like to tell you that with all the President's proposals we have agreed on this bill, regardless of the MP's and the faction's, because it will be a full-fledged legislation on victims of Nazi persecution. Dear colleagues, let us stop and vote for these people today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m1.u105	Dear National Deputies! Since all the President's proposals for legislation are taken into account, I am voting on the adoption in a new edition with proposals by the President of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Social Protection of Victims of Nazi Persecution. Please vote. [[17:55:39]] For 209 The law is rejected. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. on Friday.
