ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:59]] There were 424 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Gabrieluk Vasilovich. Let's welcome him and wish him well. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I will inform you of the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Musiyaki Viktor Lavrentiyovich, Stasevski Stanislav Telisforovich and Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovic into the House of Deputies. Honourable National Deputies, on June 30, 2004, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leluka Alexia Volodymyrovich, elected on June 20, 2004, in the midterm elections in the one-man election district number 151. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leluk Olexy Volodymyrovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Alexi Volodymyrovich, we wish you fruitful work. [[Applause]] Please sign up for three minutes of procedural questions. Please sign up. Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u4	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u5	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u6	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I thank Igor Ostasha. I'd like you, Mr. Head, to inform us what was done on your behalf yesterday on the grounds that people are being dealt with for broadcasting Parliament? This is in terms of the "Volume Cable" leaders, in terms of the pressure on the fifth television channel, on the parliamentary channel, that they're not broadcast at all in the Donetsk region. Is it that the area is free of information or that this area is free of morals? And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is now illegal to leave the question on a non-regulatory basis on Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to explain that if this happens, we're going to take 70 of the questions that are being asked today. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u7	As far as the last problem is concerned. Nothing's ready to throw. Please calm down and don't electrify the session room. As for the first question, there is a study of this problem and an integrated High Council of Human Rights authority on this subject, and you will be informed. Alexander Zinchenko is in charge of this issue. Colonies, please, "Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u8	Colonyari, 56th District, Mariupol City, faction of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are a great deal of questions brought to the session hall today. A great request from the "Regions" faction to hold a full-time session to address all issues in today's agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u9	I think it'll be the 24th hour, if the people's deputies can stand it. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u10	Please give my word to my colleague Leschchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u11	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We, the Communist faction, are concerned about the state of affairs in the agricultural sector. We need to save the village. But unfortunately, we've also had a situation in Parliament that's all the same. For several weeks in a row, there has been a whole series of bills in the village, including the peasants’ interest in costing the issuance of acts and so forth. Last night we came up to them, two looked around, eight left. They came up to them yesterday, they didn't look at them, they're gone today. I'd like to at least look at numbers 5197 and 5391 today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u13	5197 and 5391.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u14	5197 and 5391 at least today. The same is true of a number of social issues. There's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u15	I'm asking you, you give me this list, we'll figure it out. Dear Alexander. Prepare Kosinov instead of Savitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I have a request to the Head of the Supreme Council and to all colleagues who have. If you don't mind. There's a bill, it was scheduled yesterday for his consideration in the agenda, 5246. It refers to car duties imported by foreign diplomatic representatives in Ukraine. And the question is, well, those of us who were in these courtyards, they see that they just can't get rid of old cars, and the situation is just pathetic. Request: if possible. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we looked at this yesterday. Perhaps today, if there is no objection, the bill is simple and has the positive conclusions of all administrations and so forth. Thank you. 5246, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u17	Okay. Kosinov, please. Instead of Savitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time, we cannot come to the attention of Act No. 2152: on the administration of justice. Please revert to this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? As for the bill that Alexander the Road was talking about. We need to look at it, because we're going to have conflicts with diplomatic representations. If you don't mind, we'll look at it. There's a very simple law. As far as the Law on the Organs of Justice is concerned, if you don't mind, let's include it as well. And those bills that Vladimir Leschenko proposed, now he'll give us, we'll also consider them if you agree. Is there no objection? Then let's work effectively, qualitatively and expeditiously. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings is announced for consideration: "On measures to protect against terrorist acts and other criminal attacks against judges and courts in Ukraine" in September 2004. Please, Santa Onichuk, very briefly. And we'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Presidency, distinguished national deputies, citizens of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of the present vocation has already done much to make a substantial improvement in judicial activity and in general the departure of Ukraine’s judiciary. But there is another debt: it involves ensuring the safety of the courts and all other members of the court. You know very well that on the ninth day, and the country shuddered, on February 9, this year at the Darnick district court in Kiev. And God grant him to be the last of the judicial system. And it may be the last thing in Parliament if you and I, in particular, take a number of steps to ensure the safety of the courts. In this regard, it is proposed that parliamentary hearings be held in September of this year on measures against terrorist acts and other criminal attacks against judges and courts in Ukraine. It is anticipated that the results of this hearing will result in the adoption of the Supreme Council Regulation, which will give appropriate instructions to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General's Office, the Security Service for the development of a national court protection programme, the establishment of a judicial police, honourable colleagues, and the subordination of it, in particular, possible together with the IMF and the State Judicial Administration. We must respond to events that are said to give us first signals that Parliament cannot remain apart from this important problem. Please support this draft decision on the holding of parliamentary hearings in September of this year. Thank you for your attention. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I completed the report on the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Measures to Protect Against Terrorist Acts and Other Crimes against Judges and Judges in Ukraine. Registration number 5154. [[10:15:45.]] For 267 Decision taken. For reasons of what? Semenyuk, please. Someone's the one you're going to define.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u22	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Mikolo Vasilovich! I voted in favour of such parliamentary hearings because it is a form of at least a few people to participate in the discussion of the problems that exist today. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we make the right decisions on such matters. But we have no terrorism, no nowhere, nothing. Today, 10 million people are being robbed, not including the issue of privatization, so-called, through an additional edition of the Oranti. 5626 Bill. He was fine yesterday. He's not here today. If we look at this issue urgently, tomorrow 10 million people, if Pinchuk privatizes Orantu, we'll essentially leave the rights to compensation, to return savings and insurance, because of the extra issue, they're taking this organization away. The Committee on Economic Policy considered it. Let us consider it along with those questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u23	I, my dear fellows, offer. Now the suggestions we made, let's stop at that, we'll add them and work until we've exhausted the entire schedule. We'll add them now, the secretariat will give these draft documents. A draft decree on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on HIV, AIDS, tuberculosis and drug addiction is under consideration. National Deputy of Ukraine Rudenko Hennady Borisovich Please. Is there a Gennady Borisovich? None. Please, Soboleva, please. Sergey Sobolev of the committee, head of the committee's committee on legal policy, Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u24	You've been given a project of this document. Please, I won't be talking for very long, we've been conducting a number of parliamentary hearings on these issues. And that is why, in order to generalize the data received by the experts who were provided by the relevant experts who were presented during the parliamentary hearings, it is desirable to generalise within this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's define by vote. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just wanted to clarify whether there are deputies involved from the Yulia Block Timoshenko, because I don't know, it's going to depend on whether we vote in favour or not, because this commission can't be one-sided. If you don't, of course we'll support it, because the very idea of creating such a commission is justified and motivated, because it's a necessary problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that I have been twice addressing committee leaders and factions with proposals for nominations. The candidates are all accounted for. If there's a candidate from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, I'm happy, I think the Supreme Council will agree to work on this issue. So with your offer, please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I believe that the decision should be voted on, but a big request. I think in paragraph 2b you have to write, not the question of the loan, but the question of the effective use of the loan. I think it'll be better because the question of the loans themselves is still about the powers of more economic committees, and the effective use of them can be the mandate of this commission. Therefore, the proposal with such a right is to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u29	I think we should agree. Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u30	Victor Taran, Timoshenko Street. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We had this school and Sas on a faction yesterday as part of the commission. I mean, I'd like them to vote for these candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u31	I think we need to decide about one representative, and then please identify one representative, or School, or Sas. You're proposing to school. Dear colleagues! With the refinements just mentioned by Valérie Assadchev and the introduction of Andrew Skull to the commission. I put to the vote the entire draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis and drug addiction, registration number 5696. Please vote. [[10:21:03]] For 405 Decision taken. A draft decree on the marginality of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced for consideration. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council reviewed the request of Zajczuk's Chief of Staff Valentin Alexandrovich to increase the number of units in 50. In this regard, I would like to inform you of the following. On July 4, 2002, the Supreme Council decree on the marginality of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was set at 1,065 with us. Since the adoption of this decree, the amount of work carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has increased significantly, including the number of bills, and this is what we know with you that are being submitted to the Supreme Council by law enforcement entities, the number of requests by national MPs, the number of parliamentary parliamentary factions and groups has doubled. Taking into account the repeated appeals made by committee heads and heads of parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups, as well as the average workload of one committee secretary and with the aim of improving the legislative organizational work of committees and parliamentary factions and groups, it is proposed to increase the number of committees and deputy factions to 29 units. Also, with the submission of the heads of structural units, it is proposed to provide services to the new administration of the Supreme Council on the street of Sadowy and the newly created Advisory and Advisory Council on Local Self-Government at the Head of the Supreme Council to increase the number of individual structural units in total by 16 people. Leave five units in reserve. So the number of apparatus is going to be 1,115 units. Since the cost of implementing the Supreme Council’s mandate for this year was not expected to increase the number of Apparatus, this year the increase will be ensured through the economy of the Wages Fund. The cost of the asset for the following year will be foreseen. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of the Supreme Council and to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the marginality of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 5723. Please vote. [[10:25:08]] For 372 Decision taken. For reasons, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin. I'm motivated. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of reducing the apparatus to 300-400 people, who could be reduced, we've just added it. It's like we just destroyed a dozen schools that we could finance for that money. I'd like us to look at the matter the way we should. We could shorten the control departments, the orders of the Supreme Council, which we talked about, the requests for answers to requests, including copies of the replies just given to the deputies. We could cut back on the use of computers instead of delivering. I ask you to consider these questions at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee. You can't just increase the numbers, mechanically, you can't. So to get out of this logic that if you increase not by 50, but by 350, then everything in the country is going to be okay. And that's the wrong logic. The whole country is shrinking, and we have to think about cancelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u35	A draft decree on the restoration of the village of Svitanek Volodymyr-Wallin district of Volin district of the former appointment is being announced. Oluika, Vitali Oluiko will report on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u36	Dear People's Deputies, the Volinsky District Council violated before the Supreme Council of Ukraine the concern about the return of the village "Svetanok" of Vladimir-Wollin district of Volin district of the former historical name, the village of the Honest Cross. The question of the restoration of the village of the former appointment was discussed at the Selec Rural Council session and was supported by the local referendum of residents of the populace, as well as at the session of the Vladimir Volinsky District and Wallin District Council. The Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule supports the Woline District Council’s concerns. The decision was voted in favour of 14 members of the committee, three against. Please put to the vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u37	It is the goal of the voting project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to restore the village of Svitanek Volodymyr-Wallin district of Volin region of the former appointment. Registration number 5621. Please vote. [[10:27:52]] For 334 Decision taken. A draft law on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money to Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the security of the card market]] Kaputin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u38	Dear National Deputies! We remember that two weeks ago, we approved this law in a second reading, except for one paragraph that was passed on to the third reading. This is paragraph 15. 08, which was re-examined by the Committee on Finance and Banking the other day, and the formulation of the National Bank of Ukraine was supported by the Committee on Finance and Banking by 13 votes in favour. One vote against. So there's a proposal, on behalf of the committee, I'm putting out this proposal, to support the amendment of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is in the table here, it's accounted for, this amendment, and it looks like this: the issue of cash through cash machines within Ukraine is made in the national currency, and through bank machines of authorized issuer banks in the currency of the payment card. The amendment of the national deputy Teryochin was rejected on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments that are unaccounted for? I can't see. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the third reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft law on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money to Ukraine. [[on the security of the card market]] Please vote. [[10:29:54]] For 345. The law is passed. A draft Ukrainian Administrative and Procedural Code is being announced for consideration. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the committee, please. Who will report from the committee? Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Ah, is Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, you have an extremely important draft in your second reading: Administrative procedural code. They've been working on them for years. Today it's a complete normative act. You have a draft decision. We're asking you to move some things, let's say, to the end of the line. Those chapters and articles that relate to electoral legislation, to third reading, and this draft of the Administrative Procedure Code to be adopted in second reading. It is very important for the formation of the judicial system, the administrative courts to have a proper procedure for the courts to deal with complaints of citizens, legal persons against public authorities, local self-government and actions, and the inaction of officials. I think that this procedural code will, if it is adopted, protect the rights, freedoms, and interests of the citizens. I think that maybe some people don't like that this draft code provides for a court-martial and an accusation of decisions that are not normative: the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, his actions and his inaction. Those decisions of the authorities, which are of a normative nature and acceptance, are considered in the Constitutional Court. Thus, when the Committee considered the draft Administrative Procedure Code in its second reading, it actually considered 85 percent of the proposals made by the legislators, 25 percent rejected. I think you could accept it in a second reading. If anyone has any comments, any suggestions, please, I'll give you an answer. But in general, it's an extremely quality act. It has been worked on by the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, the scientific institutes and the Committee on Legal Policy, for which I am extremely grateful to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again: I would like to take the second reading of articles 172, 173, 174 and 175 of Chapter 3 of Chapter 6 “The Specialities of the Implementation in Certain Administrative Matters”, as well as section 7 “The Final and Transitional Positions”. Maybe with that in mind, we should put this proposal to the vote. No objections? Just a minute. Microphone, please, Onopenko. Microphone, please turn it on. Please turn on the microphone of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The honourable colleagues also suggested that the codex itself be defined in the light of European standards. We're ready to go back to clarifying that name. And in addition, the definition of some of the concepts in the Administrative and Procedural Code itself. I think the more we make good suggestions, the better this legislative act will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u43	Yes, Mikola Oneschuk, please, and then Boris Bespallian. Attention, Your Honor, the question is serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u44	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs. Dear colleagues, indeed, the Committee on Legal Policy has made great efforts to have this important procedural law voted on in the second reading today. And our faction will support it in order to be able to continue working on the third reading. At the same time, a proposal is made to transfer to the third reading article 20, which deals with the separation of the jurisdiction of administrative and commercial courts, and in this context relates to transitional positions. [[Vasil Vasilovich and Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is very important]] If this article is moved, "The 20th, for the third reading, we vote in favour of this bill. This is the agreed position of the majority faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u45	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u46	I think we need to back up Mikola Vasilovich's offer. We really need to work more closely on the position of article 20 in relation to the transitional positions of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u47	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u48	Victor Yuschenka's block of "Our Ukraine", Boris Bespali. The "Our Ukraine" faction also believes that this project is qualitative and will support it in a second reading. Yet, I would like to draw attention to one position that, in our view, might trigger a well - founded veto. It's about amendment 114. [[This is for article 17]] It is known that in Ukraine the only body of constitutional jurisdiction is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which is enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. Among the bodies that worked together, there is no Constitutional Court. Perhaps that is why administrative courts provide for the determination of the unconstitutionality of individual acts. I understand that in the Constitution, as stated in the explanatory statement, it is that the Constitutional Court determines the unconstitutionality of acts not all. But this does not mean that if the issue is not settled, we can personally introduce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u49	Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We discussed your amendment quite carefully, and there really is such a grain, but these positions appeared in connection with the fact that today the Constitutional Court does not consider these issues, nor does it know when it will be considered. Hence, the situation is that these relationships are not settled. There's a gap, we've just logged into the jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the administrative courts to deal with these issues. I think it's only for the benefit of the citizens of Ukraine and the state in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u51	Then should we put it to the vote? Please, Bespali, re-intercom. I see, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u52	Well, given that the question will be considered on the third reading, I think we should go back to it. Do not vote here, but the veto is inevitable. We cannot impose constitutional jurisdiction by law. But I wanted to make one more request, take into account the work. The law is very widespread in its use of parentheses. The parentheses are an ambiguity indicator. We write laws, we take laws very often, you know, as a principle, you know, as a no, who wants to take the "no" who wants to take the "h". I'm just going to the committee when you're working on this, because this is still a document of direct action that's a very important procedural document, where, wherever possible, there are clearly clear formulas that are absolutely clear. Which would not allow for a double interpretation in the course of the case. I think you can do that on the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u53	You can answer that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Boris Jacobovich and distinguished colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that when we were working, we were preparing a draft Administrative Code for second reading, and I invited lawyers from the President's Administration and thanking them for working with us on this code so that we wouldn't have, you know, a game of football at different gates. We have one state, one country, and that's why we can only thank the lawyers for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u54	Sergey the Chief then Yuri Klukkowski and then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u55	Dear reporter! The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, will support the Codex fully in the second reading. But we hope that his name will be clarified during the third reading. The point is, aside from the Administrative and Procedural Code, which is, in fact, a procedural code, we're going to adopt part of the substantive law, the Code of Administrative Procedures, on the basis of which the subject matter will be and will be prosecuted in procedural order. The problem is that in both the translation and the Code of Administrative Procedures, and the Administrative and Procedural Code in foreign languages, English and French. They'll sound the same. This will cause inconvenience for citizens who may appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. And that's why I think on the third reading, we're going to specify and call this the Code of Administrative Judiciality. And accordingly, of course, we're going to have to define the administrative act, and I think that's actually the subject of an accusation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u56	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u57	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I've been alerted by your answer to a question asked by colleague Onichuk regarding the possible separation of powers between the Administrative Processual and the Master Processional Code. I couldn’t understand what the problem was. It seems to me that the administrative and legal relations and the economic and legal relations are so different that I don't see any reason here for any distinction or preservation to any extent of the current practice of resolving competent administrative disputes by the court of the household. It seems to me that this is so contrary to the very spirit of administrative justice, which is established in accordance with the Law on the Judiciary, that just putting such a matter in perspective is a violation of the idea of the Administrative Procedural Code. Please answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u58	Thank you again for that question. It is not simple. After all, you know that today the courts are dealing with cases involving the activities of the taxpayers and so forth. There is such a practice. But there is also reason for these complaints to be handled by administrative courts. We're going to be working on this in more detail. Because it's still working in parallel to the second reading of the Master's Procedural Code. We need to make these decisions comprehensively, in parallel. So the proposition of Mikola Onichuka is true in order not to rush, and even from the theoretical point of view of the matter, they begin with a material right. There is both material law and administrative law. We need to separate. This is another reason why the committee should work more closely on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u60	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to thank Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka. The correct offer is accepted. I think both Oneschuk and Bespali and others, the Keykovsky right proposals have been made. And only if we take those positions that we said for the third reading will we come, whether we want to or not, to go back to the third article, to the definition of the concept and to the chapter of the first general provision. So let us leave the door open for ourselves and vote in the second reading, but let us give the commission to the committee, and in the first chapter also bring everything into line. Because the name will change, the articles will change, and the 20th, and the other articles that we put out. Of course, it's going to change with the machine, and it's going to change the definition of concepts and other things. So let's leave the door open. I'm in for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u61	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u62	I support Yuri Anatolyovich. I think it's a constructive offer. And if we make the first, second, and third articles, especially with regard to the definition of concepts, some articles may have to correct terminology. But it's a purely legal and technical regulation. And we'll do it on the committee. And you're already voting in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading of the Administrative and Procedural Code of Ukraine, with the third reading of articles 172, 173, 174 and 175, chapter three of chapter six, "The Specialities of the Implementation of Administrative Rights in Certain Categories", and chapter seven, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of article 20, which was discussed with the clarification of the definitions of the first, second, third article. Please vote. [[10:44:52]] For 401 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we were now to consider the draft Criminal Procedure Code, re-reading the second reading. But there's this proposal: because it's a huge document, a very responsible document, the committee is proposing that people's deputies get to know this document in depth, work on it so that they can have a committee, and send it to the European structures to carry out the test. And the first plenary meeting in September-month will return to the consideration of this document. Is there no objection? But I would ask, honourable national deputies, that you don't lose these three volumes during your summer vacation, because then we won't be able to reproduce them again. Here are the documents, please hold it. We're moving on then, aren't we? Sergey the Head of the Motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u64	Sergey Glaucus, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, while Paul Mokchan speaks to you and to the national MPs. In September-month last year, when Ukraine heard about its obligations and responsibilities in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in a resolution, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the Assembly resolution of September-month stated clearly: The Assembly calls on the Ukrainian authorities to implement the Criminal Procedure Code only after the previous conclusions of experts of the Council of Europe. So we should bear in mind that until there are any expert conclusions from the Council of Europe and until the committee is operational, and I would like to add to this process and the Committee on Legal Policy of Onopenka, we cannot consider this project in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! We have a question on the schedule of meetings: a draft decree on the granting of approval by the President of Ukraine for positions of head and members of the State Commission from securities and stock market. As you recall, we have considered this issue, and three candidates have not found the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine reiterated his suggestions to consider this issue, with one candidate introducing a new one, and two others inviting us to consider it again. So let's now take a look at this issue and make a decision that is appropriate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market, the President of Ukraine requests the Supreme Council to grant approval for the appointment of members of the State Commission from the securities and stock market of Nestrenk Ivan Ivanovich, Petrenk Vladimir Onykiyyovich and Port Andrija Volodymirovich. Dear colleagues, the relevant biographical documents on the candidates of Nesterenko and Port are given to you today, including the documents concerning Vladimir Onikiyovich Petrenka, well known to us as the People's Deputy. Therefore, after considering these nominations, they were asked to be assigned by the President to the State Commission on Securities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u67	Please sign up for the questions. Three minutes. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u68	Dear reporter! Why ask the same question several times in four months before the presidential election, if it doesn't work? It seems to me that the Chamber of Deputies was determined a few days ago, and to repeat the same candidatures, well, it doesn't make any sense. What's the procedure anyway? Once the question is considered, we should vote in favour of re-entering the room. There was no vote, the candidates were actually the same. I think there's a repetition of the procedure, and because of that, maybe this question needs to be removed from the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I will answer the question, as to the very Supreme Council and the Head of the Supreme Council. This does not apply to the Rules of Procedure. The President can make endless decisions, and the Supreme Council can determine whether or not to support a decision. So in this case, we didn't do anything wrong. If there's anything going on with you, please tell me. None. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u70	Fucking Communist faction. Please give Michael Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u71	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u72	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please tell me, last time I reported, I had the question that to date the value of intellectual property is not taken into account in enterprises that are privatized. And the people who are going around this block are doing it. What is your view: How do we eliminate this gap?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u73	Thank you, Michael. Well, I think it's touchy about the issue that's being discussed today. But I am deeply convinced that I have been, and I am, and I remain an idealist of the rule of law: if you and I provide for this in the law and convince the hall that this law needs to be supported, it will be, if not - it will not be. So I'm willing to join you in drafting such a bill. Let's put it in -- and that's the question that's going to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u74	Valentina Seminouk, please. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u75	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear reporter, first of all, I think it would be more correct for me to understand that the President is in a hurry, that we're all in a hurry -- the last day, but I have to -- at least the contenders have gone through the factions. We're, for example, colleagues Petrenko and the same Portnova -- I know them because Petrenko was with me in the session room, working, decent, and of course we'll support him. But for everyone, we need everyone to pass through there are committees and factions. You didn't have to hurry like that. We haven't even been able to get to know each other. So I think it's just not right for the MPs and for themselves in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u76	Valentino Petrovy, I still want to draw your attention to what, well, they say, plus and minus. In this case, the answer to your question is a plus. Since Nesterenko and Portnov, they've been on the committee for over three weeks now, as candidates are in the Supreme Council, they've been recommended, but for various reasons, including political misunderstandings, they haven't found support in the hall. By the way, the vote on Nesterenka's candidacy is 218. I mean, there were no political moments, but there were no warnings directly to the candidates. What we know about Vladimir Onakiyovich seems to have been working in the same room for more than a year, so we have another specific insight, I think we're going to have enough time to answer the question from the rostrum. So here, as they say, pluses and minuses. In this case, it's a plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u77	Thank you. Time's up, Alexander Viktorovich. Have a seat, please. From the Kaputin Committee, Victor Volodymyrovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, three candidates from Nesterenko Ivan Ivanovich, Petrenko Vladimir Onykiyyovich, Port Andrija Volodymyrovich, are under consideration. Two of these three candidates, Nesterenka and Portnova, were discussed at the Financial and Banking Committee last time and were supported and recommended. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to consider the last candidate, because there was no time. It was introduced yesterday. But the hall can be defined. I think it has to be that way. To vote in favour or against. Because the Securities Commission should work, and now there is no quorum of members of the commission, of the nine approved members, of the four members of the commission. That's why the work of this committee is slowing down. I therefore propose to vote in favour of the nominations, separately for each candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! We listened to Nesterenko Ivan Ivanovich, Portnova Andrija Volodymyrovich, Petrenko Vladimir Onikiyovich, you know. Why don't we put it to a vote and you decide how to vote? May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of approval by the President of Ukraine to serve as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Nesterenko Ivan Ivanovich. [[10:55:02]] For 336 Decision taken. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of approval by the President of Ukraine to serve as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Petrenk Vladimir Onikiyyovich. Please vote. [[10:55:34]] For 281 Decision taken. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the part of granting approval to the President of Ukraine to serve as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Portnov Andrija Volodymirovic. [[10:56:05]] For 261 Decision taken. Let us welcome the members of the National Commission of Securities and wish for fruitful cooperation, including with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the payment of duties and the taxation of transactions in cultural values is being announced for consideration. Pussy Vasil Petrovich, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! We've been reviewing this bill last week. So the Committee considered it, and in paragraph 3, we made a proposal to allow imports of cultural property over 50 years of age, meaning that I read by text. Made 50 or more years ago for the purpose of their subsequent transmission to museums, you need to add words -- galleries, exhibition centers, archives, State or municipal institutions of culture, or education. We have added a bill which was submitted to Mr. Burjak and the Kalinick to adopt on second reading and in whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill of amendment to certain Ukrainian laws on the payment of duties and the taxation of transactions of cultural values, registration number 4147. Please vote. [[10:58:03]] For 359 The law is passed. A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of Ukraine's Electricity Act, second reading, is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! There's a letter from this point of view. The committee requests him to transfer a number of laws to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the circumstances that have arisen during the adoption of the bill in recent times and the need to reconcile the bill with them. Is there no objection? We are taking the matter to heart. A draft Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations, registration number 2580-1, is being announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please. We've already voted on the amendments, haven't we? Please, Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. In accordance with a decision of the Supreme Council, the Committee prepared and introduced for re-reading a draft law on the registration of immovable property. In the process of preparing for second reading, the Committee received a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank on the need to support the concept of the draft as drafted by the Committee, and to withdraw its previous proposals. Similar letters were received from the people's deputies of Ukraine, Tsusko and Seminogi. This group of proposals was deleted from the table. Included in the table of the proposal of the Czernovecki People's Deputy, two have been taken into account editorially. They are included in the table of proposals of the people's representative of Tkac, but are rejected because this is not the subject of the law under consideration. The bill proposes registration of real estate rights, but not the procedure for issuing a certificate of the right to real estate. In our view, this is the draft Law on State Land cadastre. The finalized project proposes the establishment of a single system of State registration of real estate rights within the State's land inventory. The registration system will be based on a cadastre number of land plots, both in cases where the owner of the land coincides with the owner of another real estate and where the owner of the land and the apartment does not match. The draft was prepared in follow-up to the provisions of the Civil Code, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. With the adoption of the law, respected colleagues, we were six months late, placing many Ukrainian citizens on the basis of the procedures imposed by the Ministry's order. The Committee asks citizens about the absence of the Registration and Non-implementation Act of the Civil Code and violations of the rights of multiple real estate owners in real estate transactions. The right of ownership arises from the time of registration of the transaction in accordance with the law. The holder of the State Register of Rights shall be designated by the authorized executive body on land matters. The Administrator is the Earth cadastre centre. Their real estate inventory and real estate accounting functions remain in place for the Bureau of Technical Inventory. Dear colleagues, the table contains 279 proposals, some of which are rejected because they are contrary to the provisions of the Civil Code or the concept of the law. I would like to draw your attention to the comments of the Legal Office. There are no comments on the text. Please support the adoption of this law on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u83	Dear colleagues who insist on amendments We have considered them, indeed, but there is still insistence. Who insists? Boris Bespali, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u84	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say immediately that I insist on a whole series of amendments and consider these amendments. And the first one, that's about amendment number eight. Before that, I would like to point out that the table is given to us today. There are 279 amendments. This is contrary to the Rules and so forth. The amendment deadline was artificially limited. This speaks of a very intense and uncivilized lobbying of this law, which is generally invalid. Now essentially the amendment. In some cases, the law does not exclude the registration of specific restrictions imposed by legislation that directly apply to children. So you don't register, for example, the right to pass through the land, the right to pick up mushrooms, berries, and so on. This too must be done. Because this is the only criminal case involving the use of weapons against teenagers, it was because such difficulties were not registered. I think we need to postpone this project and complete it with registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u85	Yes, please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u86	We have considered all the amendments very carefully. Once again, respectable colleagues were guided by one thing: compliance with the Civil Code, which was adopted, and not destruction of the very meaning of the law. I propose that the amendment of the esteemed Boris Bespalogo be put to the vote and that it be decided in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u87	I'm voting on amendment number eight of Boris Bespalogo. [[11:04:20]] For-47 The decision is not taken. It's the 10th Lebedovsky Correction. Are you insisting on her? No, they don't. Let's move on. Zhangiya, 11th. Lip, 12th. Lebedivsky, 13th. Insomnia, 14th. Are you insisting? Boris Bespallian, are you insisting on 14 amendments? No, it's not. 15th. Are you insisting on the amendment? 16th, Boris Bespallium. No, it's not. Yes, Kravchenko, 18th Amendment, insists? Come on, then, who insists on the amendments, and which ones? Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u88	I insist, 96 amendments, this is page 25. It is said that the bill foresees the principle that the system of state registration bodies consists of the central authority of the executive authority of land resources and it deals with the established state accounting legal person, that is, the classical mechanism, when people pay money to a state legal person who works for himself. Then they'll say the Supreme Council is guilty of everything. We already know that if a chicken runs into a neighboring town or a goat dies, the Supreme Council is to blame. Now this law is going to make people pay crazy money, some kind of mythical person. We'll be guilty again. Now the registration system is in place, the law on local self-government says it's in the system of local self-government. So I think we should not accept what the committee is imposing on us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u89	Well, if there's a single system, of course, there's got to be a payoff when you make a deal. These tariffs will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The same is being done today by the Ministry of Justice. Why should we exclude payment? Another question is the level of this payment. If, in the case of a secondary transformation of real estate or land, it may be slightly higher, and the primary form can be made minimally possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u90	I'm voting on the amendment of the 96th Boris Bespalogo. [[11:06:58]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Boris Jakovic, your next amendment. Microphone, please, Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u91	Incorruptible, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." The next amendment is 103. I'm not just saying that we're not just the Bureau of Technical Inventory that's in the settlements that somehow subordinated the Statecommere, although they have to register, say, and urban apartments and so on, we're also subjugating the entire personnel policy of these Bureaus of Technical Inventory. It is the central authority that selects, prepares and enhances the qualifications of employees of the entire system of state registration agencies. That is, in fact, the authorities of the local self - government are disenfranchised even in the original registration. They're getting rid of any influence on human resources policy. Despite the fact that article 30 of the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, a basic law, refers to delegated powers of local self - government. So I think we need to support my amendment and not support such a bold attempt on the part of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u92	If this is a single system, of course, there must be a single ideologie for training. BTIs retain their functions and remain in local governments. We believe that this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u93	There's an amendment to the 103rd Boris Bespalogo vote. [[11:08:48]] For-53 Correction not accepted. Next amendment to Boris Bespalogo. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u94	Amendment 117. Actually, there's a strange system on the committee, a strange logic. They suggest that the Bureau of Technical Inventory be arranged directly by the State Commission, more faithfully, even by its business structure, and then they say it remains in the system of local self-government. Well, I think it might be a complete misunderstanding of local self-government. But since there are very competent people in the rostrum, I think it is a conscious destruction of self - government. My 117th amendment says that the local authorities of the state registration of property rights and their limitations are municipal enterprises of local self-government. This is local self - government. Another question is what should be a centralized register at the state level to which the information is transmitted. But when there's a real estate tax, he'll be fine with the local budgets. Thus, the local self - government authorities have to register again. And here, without any argument, the logical position of support for local self - government is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u95	The main argument is that this should be a unified, holistic system, so that we do not, even when investments are made, create the whole system, fail to make the system unmanaged. We insist on rejecting this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u96	There's an amendment to the 117th Boris Bespalogo vote. [[11:10:39]] For-74. Correction not accepted. Next amendment to Boris Bespalogo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The next 125 is an amendment. Here we will examine the sincerity of what the committee is proposing. I propose that the head of the local state registration authority, who is a state registration officer and is appointed a local self-government authority in the territory of which the registration district is located, be in agreement with the central registration authority. I think it fits the principles of self-government. When we are argued that the main purpose of the law is to be the only system of whatever it is, it is simply reduced to a slogan. It's just the slogan of self-government. Why the local self - government, then, why the decentralization program that is being carried out by the UN? If we're told, "It's important that there be a single organ." Let's leave Ukraine with only one president. With him as a registrar and then the committee's dream will be realized.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u98	I would like to stress, my fellow Members, that this is all about registration. And the system must be absolutely objective and reliable. And we do not in any case beg for the function of local self-government. We don't interfere in property matters. It's only an objective registration. It's if you want a system, it's a device that has to work very objectively and accurately. We therefore insist that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u99	There is 125 amendments to Boris Bespalogo's vote. [[11:12:38]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Boris Bespalogo's microphone. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u100	Thank you. Next amendment to 153. It's not about the global concept. It's about filling the database. The project suggests that the database should include, in addition to clearly indicated non-controversial data, other data are provided for in the State Land cadastre regulations. I mean, what does that mean? And that means that this same Statecommunity or its business authority can make any demands, require any data. So in general, laws shouldn't have all-consuming formulations like "other data." In fact, it turns out that a few officials who are already trying to usurp the registration, they're going to further require any data that's not provided by law. I suggest that this list of data be set up solely and exclusively by the Cabinet of Ministers and no official activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u101	We must be consistent in our decisions. We have not adopted the Land Cadastre Act. Today it is also a very important basic law. And to say that officials will demand any evidence, in the end it means not trusting the government or the Derzcomme. I don't think there's gonna be a hospital report. We insist on rejecting this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u102	There's an amendment to the 153rd Boris Bezpalog vote. [[11:14:33]] For-68 Correction not accepted. Boris Yakovich, your next amendment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u103	Thank you. 159th Amendment. I want to point out that the committee is really very consistent in its position. He's really completely destroying self-government, creating a business structure in the country that will require any information, make any money and register or not register for his own judgment. So this total system of bribery is being created. It's very consistent. But is such a sequence needed? And for example, the 159th amendment specifically denies one of the elements of such a sequence of legitimate corruption, which is that it still tries to take the right to take the money for the payment of government duties, for the state registration, and also for the rights and payments set out in the order. So they're going to self-absorbing the payments that people have to pay them for, this business structure. I think it's completely unacceptable logic, and I suggest we remove these same payments, which are legitimate bribes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u104	But you can't just see bribes and corruption in everything. If the system exists, if it responds to requests, the relevant certificates are issued, why not pay for it is not reasonable, we will not build a market economy. If, for example, real estate is used as a bank asset, why does the bank receive information from the system not have to pay for it? We insist on rejecting this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u105	The vote is amended by 159 Boris Bespalogo. [[11:16:40]] For-58 The decision is not supported. Next amendment to Boris Bespalogo. Please. Bespalam's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u106	The next amendment is 239. And that's the last amendment. I didn't say at all that I only see corruption in this law. As the reporter, I see, really, there's a lot of corruption, but there's not only corruption, there's still an attempt at abuse of power and so on, because corruption isn't at all harmful to this law. So this is what the 239 amendment is all about. They're trying, the committee's going to take a position, which means it's going to be the only one, it's the registration number, the cadastre number, and so on. So what I'm saying is that the position of our faction is that the only real estate register has to be and should be at the state level. But physical registration is carried out by self - government authorities, which then give data to this register. So there's both the public interest and the self-government interest, as opposed to what the committee is proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u107	We do not believe that the interests of local self-government are affected. And the data that will be used in the system are just local government data, BTI. We insist on rejecting the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u108	The vote is amended by 239 Boris Bespalogo. [[11:18:29]] Z-77 Correction not supported. Boris Bespalogo's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u109	243 and the last amendment. Dear colleagues, I certainly didn't expect the amendments to be voted on, because a really dead park is useless. And I understand that this law will be rejected along with the amendments and so on. I took the floor to motivate why this law in general is certainly impossible to vote on. And I think that none of you, each of us, live either in a village or in a village, most of us in cities. And of course, no one is voting for a law that completely destroys local self-government in this part. So the registering organs are going to be controlled by the State Commission for something. Human resources policy is established by the State Commission. Payments that will be paid by people, far from just banks, are established by the State Commission. And as a result, we're going to have one great Democrat instead of a local self-government. I think we're going to go for it, and we're going to give the law zero or one vote for it. And I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u110	I think that the local authorities should be grateful that the central executive body will provide them with professional support and assistance and will help to ensure that objective real estate and land are taken into account. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill on second reading and in general. It is an essential law to improve the investment climate in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u111	Dear colleagues. That's not all. These are other adjustments. The vote is amended by 243 Boris Bespalogo. Then Roman Tkac will make his amendments. [[11:20:33]] For-60 Correction not accepted. Roman Tuck's microphone, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u112	Roman Tkac, National Movement of Ukraine The faction of our Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I realized that after voting for the amendments, that all my amendments would not go away, and I would take them off. But I still want to ask one question to the honourable reporter. I have a question. I understand that we are now creating the only organ of state registration and rights. But there is another question. Why do we destroy what is already created? In this case, do you mean the Bureau of Technical Inventory? Today, there are 361 offices in Ukraine that are communal and are created by local authorities. I proposed to the 43rd amendment that help, characteristics or technical inventory should be carried out by an existing office, a municipal property office. You rejected my amendment. That's why I have a question for you. Why destroy what is already created? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u113	The Bureau of Technical Inventory remains and will perform its functions. In all, their information will be used for a single system. We have discussed this issue many times with the leaders of BTI cities and district centres and have found mutual understanding here. BTI remains and performs its functions. It is only a matter of staff policy, a professional approach by the State Commission, that is, a registration structure. BTI is an enterprise of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the committee's proposal, please note, the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions. Registration number 2580-1. Please vote. [[11:22:49]] For-286 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u115	Thank you very, very distinguished colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u116	The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 10, "Ukraine" - 61, Communist faction - 47, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party - 40, Dem. Initiatives. [[united]] The People's Government's 29th, Labour Ukraine - 29th, National Agrarian Party - 16, SPI - 1, Block Timoshenko - 3, Union - 15, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, Center - 14, Non-Faction - 8. The draft Law on Inter-budget Relations between the District Budget and the Budgets of Rural Communities, Villages, Cities and Their Unions is being announced for consideration. Reporter Poshenko Peter Alexiyovich. Who will report from the committee? Katerina Fomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u117	Dear National Deputies, Ukraine’s Budget Code, which was adopted on June 21, 2001, launched budgetary reform and inter-budget reform as well. But what we have to say is that those relationships that ended the maternal budget formation, they stayed and stopped right at the border of the district and at the district level. If they were distributed by formula, by formula, then lower levels of local self-government were given budgets that were formed, let's say, by manual administration. The Budget Committee has therefore developed a bill under the Budget Code, which has just developed the formula and defined the indicators that are approved by the formula in the distribution of budget transfers, inter-budget transfers. I want to say that this bill was discussed with representatives of the districts, along with representatives of the congress of the local regional authorities of Ukraine, along with representatives of the Association of Cities of Ukraine. And very, very many of the proposals that were on their side were taken into account. I also want to say that all the proposals of the people's deputies that we have received are also fully taken into account. What does this bill foretell? The bill introduces a formula, a formal method of budgeting the local self - government authorities at the village, village, and city levels of regional significance and their unification. We offered in the formula indicators such as the region's revenue forecast. Indicators such as the estimate of income from natural persons, the relative tax index, the financial regulation of fiscal security, the number of inhabitants and the number of consumers of social services, the leveling ratio, and also the factorial impact factor. With this bill, we finally set deadlines and deadlines for the adoption of budgets at the village, village, district, city and its unification. And the bill should also approve that rule in case of timely adoption, such as the State Budget Act, not the law, but the decision on the adoption of the budget at the village, the village, the city of regional importance when these terms are being violated. We've offered these relationships to regulate the decision of the district council. I mean, we got a lot of comments from the Ministry of Finance. But so far all of these observations have been settled, and so far we have the support of the Ministry of Finance and Bill 4006-1 is being supported today by all those working on it. Therefore, there is a proposal to support this bill so that the 2005 State Budget is already in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u118	Yes, Your Honor, the position of the committee towards your acquaintance has been proven. Corrections counted, Bill worked. There is every reason for the committee’s proposal to vote: the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of the Law on Inter-Budgetary Relations between the District Budget and the Budgets of the Rural Communities, the Villages, the Cities and Their Unions. Registration number 4006-1. Please vote. [[11:27:45]] For 377 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Metal Smack Act is being announced for consideration. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich reports on this, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Registration number 3281.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u119	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, we have recently adopted this bill with you on first reading. I would like to remind you of the basic nodes to re-establish in memory what this is all about. It was that we allowed cash calculations, i.e. cash calculations, in the scrap sites, we removed the limit on the color debris on the sites so that the volume of these purchasing firms that could work on the market could be increased; introduced the licenses and standards that worked in the EU and the world community; we will say so, American standards, which could not have led to certain moments in the adoption of the law on second reading, that is to say, this bill. The Legal Office also made a number of comments. Because the basic rules of this bill, which we adopted on our first reading, have not yet been able to correct the second reading in such a way that they relate to the fundamental body of the law, to the bases that are in force to date. We have therefore set up a commission to finalize this bill together with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Industrial Policy Committee. We have re-examined the bill, and it has been reviewed on several occasions. And, in agreement with the authors of this bill, we propose to put to the vote and to adopt a decree proposing that the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, registration No. 3281, should be repealed. Order No. 3281-P of 18.06.2004. So we get out of this conflict that we have. In turn, the authors who prepared the bill for consideration in conjunction with the Committee have already prepared a new bill to replace the bill, which, so to speak, all the positive points that have been laid down in the bill will be introduced into the new bill and will be brought to your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u120	Corrections. Let's do the amendments, and then for reasons before the vote there will be. No, one minute. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u121	No, no. The order shall not be voted on. First the second reading is voted out, and then, if not, it will be cancelled. Let's go to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u122	Then let's do it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, then I have an offer. Then we put the bill on second reading. The Committee's proposal is not to vote for it. And it automatically shoots. And we're preparing a new bill in exchange.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, first the vote in the second reading. If not adopted in the second reading, then the bill is cancelled. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u124	No questions asked. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u125	For reasons, please, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u126	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable reporter, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine thinks that the situation that arose with the scrap metal in Ukraine is a natural disaster, a disaster for Ukraine. And that's why we need to, I agree with Sergei Matvienkov that we need to get this bill out. Because what we're proposing is the liberalisation of the metal industry today, not what they liberalize, but what we need to do is make tough sanctions. Therefore, we must vote against it. And this bill is to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u127	There is a proposal to put it on second reading, and the Committee's proposal is not to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u128	Paul Silent, with motives, please. Microphone, please turn it on. Please. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u129	Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm addressing you. As I understand it, when we discussed in the first reading, the main point was that this process of liberalisation, as Nikolaynko said, we are turning Ukraine into a complete metal scrapper. Because you know the consequences of what happened over a long period of time in Ukraine. In fact, this process allowed for the destruction of the entire industrial base in Ukraine. How is this supposed to be stopped or not? Finally, stop this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u130	That is why the Committee has taken the decision I am talking about today. The adoption of the bill would worsen the situation of the work being carried out today in order to work with the fracture.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Cosachenko, as project author, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the law on second reading took the form that distorts the situation at first reading, the committee took the decision that Mr. Matthews proposed to vote. I support that he should not be accepted as a law in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u133	Dear National Deputies! Since this is already the property of the Supreme Council, I put the first question to the vote. On adoption in second reading and as a whole, as a law, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy. [[Registration number 3281]] [[11:34:15]] For the The law. The law is rejected. A draft law on the introduction to the Ukrainian Post Office Act on written correspondence, second reading, is being announced for consideration. Long Stanislaw, please. Who will report from the committee? Dear colleagues! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on the Construction of Housing and Communications Transport reviewed the draft Ukrainian law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Post Office Act, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. And he suggested to the Supreme Council that he accept it as a basis. Considering that no comments and proposals have been made from the legislators, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u135	Yes. Dear colleagues! We need to be clear. I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Postal Communications, registration number 3167. [[11:36:04]] For 241 The law is passed. There is a draft law on transport and freight. [[second reading]] Head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, Klimpush Orest Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the Adoption of the Draft Law on Transport and Expedition, 1359 of December 09, 2003, the draft was prepared for a second reading. All the proposals have been worked out. 154 proposals were submitted to the bill. The project's developers thank the national MPs Mikoli Kruhlov, Oreste Klimpush, Vladislav Otroshenko, Vasil Gorbal, Alexandre Edina, Yuri Karmazin, Eugene Red, Volodymyr Cherniak and others for their creative contribution to the text of the draft provisions of the new Civil Code, for bringing the articles of the bill to the standards of economic legislation, for their introduction. the conditions of the shipping activity, the specification of the fundamental rights and obligations of the participants in the shipping activity. To sum up the work done, it should be noted that the proposals taken into account correspond essentially to the general direction of the bill. Editorial regulations were introduced after a comparative table was edited by the Legal Authority and the Editorial Department of the Supreme Council. Editorial regulations do not affect the general content, directing the bill and bringing the project into line with legislation in terms, requirements of Ukrainian language, logical design, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, taking into account what has been defined, please support this bill in the second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of the authors of the amendments insists on their reasoning and voting? There's no such thing. Yeah, then before, now. Before voting, we have a decree on the inadmissibility of the People's Deputy Kruglov. But I don't see him in the hall. Yes, then, I will put to the vote the draft decree of the People's Deputy Kruglov on the inadmissibility of Ukraine's draft Transport and Expediture Act. 2474/P-1. There is a decree that the bill is not acceptable. The draft decree of the People's Deputy Kruglov. [[11:39:27]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Thus, we have reason to propose a second reading vote and the whole Freight Forwarder Act. Registration number 2474. [[11:39:56]] For 242 The law is passed. Thank you. There is a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the order of circulation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. Second reading. Bill number 5340. Report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Cuzko Vasil Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u138	Dude, it's a faction of socialists. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, this bill has been discussed with you, the Presidential Bill, all supported. And then there was a bill by a colleague of Veretennikov, which said to take account of the second reading. After the adoption of the budget law, you know, there were protests and so on. There was, let's say, an increase in serious excise duties. As a result of the negotiations with the Government, we have found a common language on this bill and have come out of this situation. It's been missed editorially, I see he raises his hand with his colleague Noshchenko, I'll read that we've missed. Article 2 "For ethyl alcohol, which is used by the enterprise of primary and mixed wine production" is to be written "for the manufacture of wine and fruit-based wineries" as well as "for the alcohol of the horse's own production and brandy imported into the territory of Ukraine by law until 01.04 and the alcohol of the ethyl grape of its own production". It should also be clarified in the End Positions that the new excise stamps have been in effect since 01.01.05, the DPA requested and the application of the 0.275 bottle since the law was published. In principle, all positions on the Committee were unanimous. I propose to vote on the law in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, all the comments, the proposals are taken into account, except for the 15th amendment, which is the author of which is the National MP Tsushko. Don't you insist? It's just rejected. What is the correction? Sobolen, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u140	Sobolev, national MP. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u141	Tell me about the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u142	Amendment 14, this is page 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u143	Partially counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u144	I would like to point out that this is not just my amendment. The singers of this amendment are the national deputy Kruglov, the Omelyan Parubek, and many others who have made suggestions at the time when the issue is being considered in a valid form. What are we talking about? Literally two weeks ago, when the budget changes were made, eight times nearly raised the rates of excise duty on our Ukrainian wines. This amendment thus regulates the situation in order to return to the same rates of excise congregations that existed. That's why I would ask the room to support my amendment, because voting on this amendment leads to terrible consequences, such as cutting down vineyards. We have experienced this in our time. I would ask that this amendment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u145	Vasil Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u146	Dear colleague Sobolev! So, at a committee meeting, the Government did not veto the bill and to get out of the situation, everyone proposed and agreed. Five kopecks per degree of strength on semi-dry, semi-sweet and reinforced. Ten copies were recorded in the budget. Kruglov also attended and supported the Committee's meeting. Anyone who attended the committee may be confirmed. In the end, I ask you to support what is in the right column for the same purpose, in order to really help the winemakers, rather than allowing us to vote now, the government will veto because we are breaking agreements with them and there will be a position in the budget of 10 copies. And then the vines are really cranes. Therefore, I ask you to support what the Committee has supported. And the amendment to Sobolov is rejected. The Committee therefore does not support the amendment of Sobolva. Although he has the right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, Sobolev insists. I'm voting, I'm voting for Amendment 14 Soboljeva. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u148	Committee v. If we vote, it'll be veto. We'll play it by ear. [[11:44:45]] For 224
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I repeat. We've broken the third law in wine. If we break up with the government again now, we're on vacation. Believe me, five copies is better than ten. Yeah, worse than three. But it didn't go away. Please, let's not play. We had to make a deal with the government. I'm talking again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u150	"For" - 224. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 89, "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communists - 47, Social Democrats - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 13, Socialists - 0, Timoshenko - 10, "Soyuz", NDP, "Industry" and "Centre" - 0. Dear colleagues, who would like to return to the vote on the amendment, please identify themselves. [[11:45:59]] For the 250. I'm voting on Amendment 14 of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. [[11:46:20]] For 256 Correction counted. Any other changes? Pinzenic, repair number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the amendment of the fifth, which I propose not to support. Because this fifth amendment foresees monopolizing the production of wine. Because it allows licenses to be obtained only to those who own at least 10,000 delicacies of wine. That means there's going to be a few manufacturing companies left. So once again, I want to emphasize that we have initiators who want to destroy Ukrainian winemaking. And this amendment to the fifth paragraph, paragraph 47, please remove it from the right column and do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u152	Respectable colleagues, after the amendment of Sobolva has been voted on, this amendment loses its meaning because a single rate has been adopted. It can therefore be excluded from the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u153	The committee agrees without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u154	You can take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u155	Then the fifth amendment is deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u156	No, it was not the fifth amendment, namely, concerning the Moroccan wines of licensing, which was due to Pinzenyk. Here's this part, just the part about the Moroccan wines.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u157	This part is being removed. It's a deal. The stenograms were fixed. There's still some change. Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, my eighth amendment, which concerns the procedure for granting permission for the removal of alcohol. It is included in the previous amendment, but added the point that alcohol removal is made on the basis of documents, permits and other instruments defined by the legal acts. This means that there will be a lot of instructions, determinations, and so on. I ask you to remove this from the law: "and other documents defined by the laws of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u159	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u160	Do you agree with the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u162	All right, you got it. Yes, the Verethennikov, please. No. No.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, there are almost 90 percent of my amendments, so I want to invite you, they're all accounted for. Last week, we were all looking at them, supporting them, and if we don't support this bill, we're going to have wine production and grapes destroyed in Ukraine, as it was done in Ligačov and Gorbachev. So I really want to make sure that we don't do it again. I ask everyone to vote. This will be very and very good for us, as winemakers do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u164	It's not like you should have said anything. Yes, please, all the corrections are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u165	In the second and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u166	Then please, taking into account the amendments that we have voted on and which committee I have agreed to put to the vote on adoption as a whole, as a law. The Act on Amendments to Some of the Ukrainian Laws on the Circumstances of Alcohol, Alcohol and Tobacco. Bill registration number 5340. Please vote. [[11:50:08]] For 388 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation is under consideration. Registration number 5260. Report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Sergio Terjohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u167	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Mr. Chairman. Sergey Teryohin, "Our Ukraine." For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Income on Second Reading. This law, I remind you, aims to improve tax administration, namely, the definition of the normal price, the definition of a fraction that ends with discrimination against Ukrainian carriers, the long-term life insurance that makes it impossible, on the one hand, to avoid tax evasion and, on the other hand, to reduce the level of corruption of the organs involved in current business activities, to regulate the rules of taxation and the release of fiscal subsidies and subsidies, to establish rules of reference for gross expenditure of charitable assistance, to establish clear rules of combat, so-called, fine capitalization. The project is aimed at gradually moving tax rules to accounting rules and so on. I would like to point out that in the process of this project people's deputies have taken an active part in practically all factions. It's like Burjak, Homutinnik, Veretennikov, Gorbal, Tsushko and so on, I don't want to offend anyone. The project is fully agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, has no comments, so the Committee on Finance and Banking has authorized me to ask the Supreme Council to accept it on second reading and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! Most of the rights are counted. Who among the national deputies insists on law enforcement? Polack's, please, the number of your editing. Polyclavian microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u169	No. 37, page 16. To introduce an additional three per cent reinsurance tax. I would like to say that the adoption of this rule as drafted by the Committee will first strike at those types of insurance that have large levels of liability.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u170	Excuse me, please tell me the number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u171	Number 37, page 16. In fact, it will lead to the withdrawal from the Ukrainian market. I suggest you accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u172	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u173	Yes, please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u174	Yes. I would like to inform the Supreme Council that this is a compromise between the position of the League of Insurance Organizations and the position of our committee. It's about covering the transfer of capital that's now happening through intimidation. I'll give you one digit. So the total volume of such tools is about 9 billion dollars per year, 9 billion dollars per year. The return from abroad is not even up to 4 percent. You're well aware that this is a way of halving the capital out of the country. When the League of Insurance Organizations compromised with our committee and with the government, we came to the conclusion that this would allow, on the one hand, not to discriminate against internal intimidation, but to make the border open for such reprisals with non-residents. Therefore, this request is not supported, but the government also disagrees with this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u175	I'm voting on Amendment No. 37 of the People's Deputies of Poland. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u176	The committee does not support this. [[11:54:31]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Who else insists on repairs? You don't? Yes. Another Polack microphone, please. You've been covered up, you can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u177	Line No.62 on page 32. It's about what I've already said. Discrimination against brokers is imposed. Please take into account my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, you remember that we made a decision a year ago to have a 15 percent repatriation tax on non-reviewing companies. This bill reduces to 3 percent. But how do you get taxed from 15 and 3. There's a treaty with a non-resident broker who's not completely in control of our nyuanks government. over finance. It's fine. Services. That's it. So if you have direct contracts with nonresidents, there's no question, or a non-resident broker has to become a resident, get under the jurisdiction of normal regulation, and then there's no tax evasion. That's why we don't support this amendment and we don't support the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u179	I'm putting to the vote number 62, introduced by the People's Chamber of Poles. Please vote. [[11:56:15.]] For-149 Not accepted. Yeah, no more national MPs? Please, National Bank. Yes, what are the adjustments? 54. The 54th vote is on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u180	Wait, you have to explain. First of all, that's what we're talking about. The National Bank wants to make a privileged tax regime for one of the civil legal transactions, for financial leasing. Why this operation cannot be explained. Probably because some of the National Bank’s deputies have an interest, to put it mildly, in some financial lysing companies. That's the first one. It's different. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers is strongly against these changes, these benefits that the National Bank wants in financial lysis. The committee's proposal was this for the National Bank: please, there's a particular leasing law. Let's do, work out the law on financial leasing, work on the draft law on so-called depreciation, and count it there. And this is the position of the Ministry of Finance, which was expressed on the committee yesterday. As the National Bank suggests, it's a hole that's just done for one of the operations. I'd like the Cabinet of Ministers to make their offer out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u181	The Cabinet doesn't have to make their proposals, because that's the National Bank's offer. These are different subjects of the legislative initiative. I'm voting on the National Bank's proposal, number 54. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u182	The committee does not support this. [[11:58:15.]] For-48 Overruled. Edit the 57th National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u183	These are three adjustments related to the creation of tax duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u184	I put to the vote number 57, introduced by the National Bank of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u185	The committee does not support this. [[11:58:44]] For-35
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u186	Edit rejected. 58th National Bank Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u187	Same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u188	Same thing. I'm betting on the vote. [[11:59:06]] For-30 Edit is not supported. Anyone else in the legislative initiative who has applied and is not supported, please state. There's no such thing. So all of us, the changes we insisted on, we voted on, we voted on. That's why we have reason to vote in general and to pass as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. Registration number 5260.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u189	The committee's asking for general support. [[11:59:53]] For 268. Thank you, that's a very wise decision. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, why don't we work all the time? Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u190	It's announced, Your Honor. Invite the national deputies to the session room, we'll continue our work. You see, I'm gonna take a bad break. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on pension contributions]] [[second reading]] Rapporteur of the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. [[Registration number 5275]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u191	Thank you, sir. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Finance and Banking reviewed, elaborated a more faithful bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation from the Income of Persons to Second Reading and introducing it for consideration. I'll remind you what this bill is about. The bill aligns the terminology of the law with the terminology of the Ukrainian Laws on National Compulsory Pension Insurance and Non-State Pension Insurance, legally distributes the concept of pension and pension contributions, exempts the aid of pregnancy and maternity from taxation, frees the heir of the owner of the insurance policy and the pension contribution from taxation, broadens the scope of the social insurance tax credit, extends the benefits to the heroes of social work, standardizes other inconsistencies with the Civil Code and with pension legislation. The bill is fully aligned with the Cabinet of Ministers, except for one position that I would like to speak of separately. The Supreme Council Committee, following the insistence of the National Bank, accepted the number 92 of Burjak’s national deputy, which says that taxation of dividends in banks will take place at a rate of 5 per cent, not from 1 January 2005, but from 1 January 2008. This is not accepted by the Ministry of Finance, and there is great doubt in the individual members of the Committee on Finance and Banking, or that the benefit of the banking community is necessary, is moral, let's say, and there is great doubt that the continuation of such benefits over the next three years will discriminate against other markets, financial services that are given to the citizen, these are also pension funds, which you know are not public payments, but payments that are taxed on by 13 percent. It's both the stock market and so on and so forth. Therefore, the honourable Lord Head, in view of the fact that number 92 was not present at first reading, was introduced to the second reading. I would ask her to vote separately to support her in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. If she gets 226 votes, she'll be transferred to the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u192	Sergey Anatolyovich, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u193	Edit 92 people's deputies of Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u194	92. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u195	Sergei Vasilovich. It was not, it was not in the first reading, so according to the Supreme Council Rules, it should be put to a positive vote in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u196	Does the committee support it? Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u197	The committee divided its thoughts on this point, but given that the two tyrants of the committee are bankers. Well, you know what kind of decision was made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on amendment 92 Sergio Burjak. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u199	Well, to a certain extent, Minfin doesn't support that. [[12:35:40]] For a-117. Correction not supported. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u200	The suggestion from the committee that everything else is fully in agreement with the Committees, the Cabinet of Ministers, to adopt this law in second reading and in general. It takes effect from January 1st of the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the committee's second reading proposal. One minute, cancel the vote, National Bank, please. Well, I can't hear you, the repair number. 63rd. The National Bank insists on voting for the 63rd amendment. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u202	The National Bank of Ukraine is in the 63rd direction. I'm sorry, now. I'm offering to free interest on dividends on deposits not all of them, but only for those who spend more than 360 days. Clearly, administratively, this cannot be controlled. Please tell me, what difference does it make if I have a contribution of six months, a year, or five years. If six months is taxed, if a year, something is not taxed. So this is not a norm of fiscal law at all, the committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the 63rd National Bank of Ukraine. [[12:37:50]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Mathematician microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u204	Dear Sergey Anatolyevich, I'm referring to the 14th Amendment. I understand that you have applied this right, so to say, not to the norm of this law, this is about the journey to recovery and the tax that is now levied on non-member families of this trade union. I mean, it's like we're in a paradoxical situation with the laws that have been enacted. I mean, the head of the family, we'll talk like this, working at the company, getting a trip, including for family members for children of minors. Thus, they are taxed. That is, we cannot provide them with a normal concessional journey because they are not members of this trade union. Let's get this rule straight. So I passed a separate law, a bill. The Committee has not yet considered it, let us consider mine in the complex. Here you take away this right, considering that this is not the norm of this section of the law. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u205	I'll explain. In accordance with the applicable law of the Law on the Taxation of Physosíb’s Income, it is established that underage family members, as well as for a wife or a husband, that is, the first level of relationship, are entitled to benefit from the provision of such travel to a professional if he is a member of a working family to whom he is issued, that is, to any member of a working family. It is not required in accordance with the law, and there is an explanation of the tax service for the children to be members of the trade union, and the wife is a member of the trade union. It is enough that the employee who receives these travels for children and for family members should be a member of one, a member of the union. You're suggesting something different, I'm sorry. You're offering the kids a raise. We have until we are of age, you write: children between the ages of 18 and 23. It's an extension of the benefits. And we didn't agree to let you know. Yeah. So once again, regardless of whether a wife or a husband is in a union, if a member of a family of the first level is a member of the union, he may receive taxes on his entire family.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u207	They have already provided such an explanation. It's today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u208	Sergio Anatoliyovich, Matviyenkov, takes off his amendment. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. [[on pension contributions]] Registration number 5275. Please vote. [[12:40:57]] For 230 The law is passed. The draft Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, second reading, is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5476. Bronnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich. Panasovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? This bill, registration number 5476, I reported the first of the two working days of Tuesday. It was previously considered under number 3605. I report that all the contentious issues raised in the discussion of this bill have been resolved, the comments have been resolved, the fundamental differences are taken into account, the proposals have been made. There is no basis for his secession. The document is absolutely ready for adoption as a whole as a law. The bill proposes an integrated approach to addressing the debt problem in the TEC. Unlike previous texts, the bill excludes a refinancing mechanism, a mechanism that has led to a mixed response in the process of considering these bills due to the introduction of a targeted energy tariff allowance. The implementation of the debt-recovery mechanisms proposed in the bill will not result in an additional cost burden on energy consumers and their delivery services, nor will it result in additional budget costs. The provision on the establishment and operation of the clearing house was excluded from the bill, and the provision on the operation of current accounts with a special regime for the use of debt repayments was excluded. The bill itself has been modified. The law must be adopted, the law aimed at resolving debt problems in the sectors of the TEC, creating preconditions, conditions for the settlement of the fall-winter maximum. The adoption of this law has a decisive impact on the guarantee of the second tranche of 275 million. For the development of the TEC and the APC in August this year. The main condition for obtaining these complaints is the need to implement the measures in the TEC, which are primarily provided for in this law. Comrades, I do not have the opportunity to vote in the Chamber in favour of a bill as a person with no evidence of opposition in the defence of public interests. The sole objective, professionally based on incontrovertible facts, is to report to you an objective situation and possible exit. I did it on Tuesday and now. Your task is to really assess the situation for an adequate decision by Parliament and possibly by power. There's no doubt in the truth about my information. I strongly request that we vote actively in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u210	Dear National Deputies! All the corrections, all the warnings, they were taken into account. So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of draft legislation on measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of the fuel-energy complex companies, registration number 5476. Please vote. [[12:44:36]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Yes, I'm voting for re-reading the draft legislation on measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of the fuel-energy complex, registration number 5476. [[12:45:11]] For-183 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations, registration number 5423-1, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning control of imports of raw sugar]] Philip Philipovich Budzigan will report on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u211	Dear National Deputies! Two suggestions, two amendments, were made to the bill. One is counted, the other is not counted. The committee considered the bill, more faithfully, and puts it on second reading, and asks it to support it, accept it in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u212	Teryohin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Finance and Banking also considered the bill. The introduction of a new tax control system in tax transactions is considered correct. It helps customs to determine the customs price correctly, does not allow tax evasion after it is imported into Ukraine. So our decision was unanimous. We ask you to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u214	I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations. [[concerning control of imports of raw sugar]] Registration number 5423-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:13]] For 276 The law is passed. Section: "Re-examination of Bills With Presidential Proposals." Ukraine Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 08.04. In 2004 Registration number 2415. Please, who will be from the government? The Minister of Justice will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u215	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On March 18, this year, the Supreme Council passed the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which was not signed by the President and returned with proposals. The President's proposals in this bill are fully taken into account. The proposals put forward by the committee take into account all the President's proposals, so I ask you to support the President's proposals and the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u216	Thank you. From the Bespali Boris Jakovic Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u217	Boris Bespalij, State Building Committee on Local Self - Government. Two proposals have come from the President of Ukraine, and I can only confirm here what the Minister of Justice has said, the committee fully takes these proposals into account. One of them was of a technical nature. The second proposal offers the responsibility of officials as well as government officials and officials of local self - government for acts of corruption that are not subject to criminal persecution to complement disciplinary responsibility. Since disciplinary responsibility is provided for by law, it must be established, in no other way, the committee proposes to take this proposal into account by the President and thus by the Colosseum, as it were, and the committee asks the deputies to support the agreed position in this case of the President and the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2415]] Please vote. [[12:50:20]] For 314 The law is passed. It is announced before the review of the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 24.06.2004. Justice Officer Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please. Alexander Valeriyovich's frost to prepare for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u219	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 June of this year, the Act on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters. Not signed by the President of Ukraine on the grounds set out in the President’s statement, since this law severely limits the rights of a number of business entities working in the Fear Market. In particular, according to the Ukrainian Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters, it is possible to carry out activities with compulsory liability insurance only by insurers who pay to the Road Traffic Victims Protection Fund at the Ukrainian Motor Insurance Office a guarantee premium of the size determined by the regulation of the Fund, but no less than the equivalent of 50,000 euros is 51 articles of the law. This provision of the law makes it impossible for the specified type of compulsory insurance to be carried out by a majority of insurance companies that are unable to pay a guarantee contribution to the Victims Protection Fund, taking into account its size, which will make up half of the minimum statutory insurance fund defined by the Ukrainian Insurance Act. Thus, the law that came to be signed creates the conditions for monopolizing the market for the listed insurance services, which does not correspond to part 3, article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the State protects competition in entrepreneurial activities rather than the lawful restriction of competition. By the way, in other countries, these are also much smaller contributions. The law also provides that one of the authorities of the Ukrainian Motor Insurance Office is its Coordinating Board. The Board's competence includes, inter alia, the exercise in individual cases of the powers of the general assembly of the Ukrainian Motor Insurance Office, the establishment of the amount of the premiums of compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners to centralised insurance reserve funds. The law proposes the inclusion of three representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and four national deputies from Ukraine, representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, candidates approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and the ruling of the Parliament. Thus, the administration of a non-state, non-profit organization actually relies on those representing the legislative and executive authorities, and thus on the average they exercise power over the motor bureaux. So we see that there are those positions and a number of others set out in the President's statement that are fundamentally violating the rights laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine and do not take into account the delimitation of the functions of government and of self-government. I ask you to support the President's remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u220	Thank you. Have a seat. Please. Committee position. I'd like her to speak to Morozov Aleksandra Valeriyovich, the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u221	The committee reviewed the president’s remarks and agreed to the principle of reducing the mandatory contribution to the guarantee fund. Although at the time of the installation, 500,000, 20 companies agreed to make such a contribution. 20 companies are not monopolizing the market. But the observation is taken into account and the size is reduced to 100,000 euros. At the first stage, that's enough. Also included is the President’s principle of joining the Coordinating Board of the Motor Bureau of Deputies. Note taken into account. And now the composition and order of the coordination board is referred to the internal issue of the motor office, which will be determined by the statute of the bureau. Two other comments were made regarding the non-compliance of the Civil Code, and they were also taken into account. That's why the committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u222	For reasons, please, Lucenka. Then the Colonyari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u223	Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, we made a big mistake by adopting this law in our second reading. In fact, we want to create new trusts, the truth is already in the insurance sector, which will be forced to raise money from populations that we don't have much. Then, in case of an accident, this insurance will be paid to the victim. And whoever's guilty is going to pay for everything through the courts. Question: What are people making money for? Are we today such a developed country that there is nowhere to go? And above all, pay attention. Leonid Kuchma proposes to reduce the premiums from 500,000 to 100. I understand that man is used to doing trusts in a naked place that are not responsible for anything. But why is such a law supported by the Supreme Council? What will we explain to people who do not have the necessary funds to pay their premiums?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u224	Colonies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u225	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Indeed, the law that we are trying to adopt now affects and undermines the interests of the 14 million adults in Ukraine. In favour of lobbyist interests of insurance companies. And the President has vetoed this law. I'm sure if we adopt this non-national law, the President will veto it again. I therefore call for no vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u226	Mikhail Dobkin, please. Then Andrew School and Terjehochin. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u227	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Unfortunately, two previous speakers of my colleagues did not seem to have read the bill at all. No lobbyist aims are pursued by insurance companies in this bill. It is the protection of those who suffer from accidents and who cannot compensate for their morals, who cannot get money for hospital treatment. That's why this law is social. This law is in force in all countries of Europe. It is currently in operation in all CIS States. The law must be passed as amended by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u228	Andrew School, then Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u229	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like one of the speakers to deny the President's strong attention and the promotion of social laws. The veto here has been dictated, the veto is very rarely imposed for reasonable reasons, it really should have been reduced by 500,000. Up to 100,000. the euro and allow normal calculations during the creation of the accident. And plus that with current insurance, when a car buys credit, insurance is compulsory, it involves franchising, which is simply not an option and insurance. So when it comes to the sociality of this law, remember that it is imposed on the owners of the means of transport, not on pedestrians. So I think here, in this situation, common sense must prevail. In this bill, of course, it's not so smooth, but it deserves to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u230	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, let's not speak popular. And this bill does not touch, as Mr. Lucenko said, 14 million, it touches 48 million. Ukrainian citizens who, in fact, today cannot pay for themselves, for treatment, for damages. I remind Mr. Lucenko that if this law is not available, there will continue to be anecdotes about "The Prisoner" and "Mercedes," when, you know, how the bandits base these low-security people, take their apartments for damages and so on. This law therefore fully takes into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. It should be accepted as proposed by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u232	Dry and we'll finish, dear fellows. This is a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u233	Dear National Deputies! Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Trouble Ukraine". I want to remind everyone that this bill is a European civilised bill. A recent accident occurred in Zaporozhye, where the car of one of the hospital’s chief physicians was completely evicted. A man came out, threw his keys on the ground, and said, "Take this old Griguli, I have nothing, I will not make any reparations." The driver is still in the hospital. This is a normal bill that allows for compensation. the loss. Look at what's happening on our Ukrainian roads, see who's there, where he's going, and how he's going. And the reasons here, right this time was said by Terjochin, and the reasons here. Social and populist demagogies. It is about protecting and protecting a person’s property, protecting him with money. This bill should be adopted in a new edition as amended by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u234	Dear colleagues. What? Well, please, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u235	Dear National Deputies! I wouldn't want to be taught here, honestly, because this bill, as a member of the committee, I read and acted against it at the acceptance stage. Indeed, in all nations, including Europeans, there are insurance companies, in fact, they insure people against accidents or other accidents, but there is never a mechanism left in this law. And that's not a fairy tale. Sergei, this will be a new story about the new trusts that were created, you remember well who. And today, Mr. Kuchma insisted that there should be unlimited moral compensation. Do you know what that means? The uncles will pay for their 20 bracelets, and one very close to the old company sufferer will receive millions of compensation for moral damage. Is that the kind of story we want to accept or not? What are we doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u236	Dear colleagues! Positions and approaches have been identified. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. May I have your attention, please, on the adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian law on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners with the President's proposals. Registration number 2054. Please be sure. [[13:02:18]] For 237 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, let's consider ratifications. A draft law on the ratification of an additional protocol to an anti-doping convention is announced for consideration. Yes, from the government, please. From the Committee of Borzov Valerius Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u237	Dear National Deputies! In fact, this law introduces our country into regulatory and legislative anti-dumping arrangements. So the committee considered these issues, supported them. And I ask you to support this decision. In fact, if a positive decision is made, we will be guided by the same regulatory and normative documents together with nearly 200 countries around the world. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Act on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Anti-Doping Convention. Registration number 0194. Please vote. [[13:04:14]] For 370. Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement Reestablishing the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation is being announced for consideration. Chef Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u239	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This is about restoring the agreement that we ratified with you a few years ago for which we can get help, technical assistance from the European Union. I mean, I think it's a very simple question. It's about continuing this deal right now. Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already been defined for this agreement, I therefore did not want to enter into the very essence of this agreement at this time, because today the issue is in the context of the prolonging of this agreement for another five years. However, I have to draw your attention to the fact that, according to this agreement and in accordance with the Ukrainian Treaty on International Contracts, this treaty requires changes to the current national legislation of Ukraine. And so this is one of the rare cases where, in accordance with the International Contracts Act, an accompanying bill is introduced that proposes to abolish any taxes and any congregations for international technical assistance from the European Union. The relevant bill has been introduced, and this is the question. And in order not to take up too much time, I actually wanted to talk to you about each other, because they are, of course, interconnected. The committee’s decision, which took place yesterday, goes back to the next. The committee suggests ratifying or, in the language of the Constitution, giving consent to the obligation of the proposed international agreement and to approve the accompanying bill in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u240	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! No warning? Please sign up, three minutes. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u241	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, Trudova Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask Roman Mikhailovich a question, but he left the rostrum. That's what this is about. 0200 is a project, ratification. There's no problem here, but Bill 5536 has such an interesting thing, and I don't know why in this case there's no conclusion on our profiling committees. Listen to what we're talking about: "Operations are exempt from taxation" in paragraph 5.12. Imports, transfers of goods to the customs territory of Ukraine, as well as the provision of jobs, services for funds provided by the European Community, their use or consumption in the customs territory and so forth. Well, I don't really know that. Such a bill cannot be adopted here without scientific, without economic, without financial and budgetary justification. It's new.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u242	The government. Just a minute. The government gave reasons for this. Perhaps the government does and sees the calculation. Please turn on the flint microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u243	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time all the arguments have been made. Secondly, without the adoption of this law, it's impossible to enter into a previous agreement, because a united Europe doesn't understand, they give us the money that we buy equipment for. This equipment is located in Ukraine, is being studied by Ukrainian scientists, and VAT is still to be paid for the funds they provide. That's what I'm talking about. It's not going here. There is no such thing in any European country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no European country. As a result, we have been blocked for several years from the point of view of co-operation between the EU and the receipt of funds for the unreimbursable, under-primary conditions, insurmountable costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, let us pay attention to the fact that when we consider the laws clearly lobbying, we have no such principle. When it comes to laws that promote science, we have the support of scientists, and we have an impressive principle here. I am putting to the vote, please note, the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, I stress, scientific and technological cooperation. Please vote. [[13:09:57]] For 376 Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? In view of the ratification of the covenant, we must now accept appropriate changes to the law. You have it, it's number 5536. These are changes to the Ukraine Act amending article five of the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. I am voting on the proposal to approve it in the first reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[13:10:39]] For 355 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Tax (for operations carried out within the framework of science) is being announced for consideration. Oh, we've already considered it. We've already considered this bill. Next bill. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on the issue of offenders. Registration number 0203. Justice Minister Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u245	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The need to make this treaty and to ratify it is prompted by Ukraine’s desire to establish legal standards with other countries to prevent or effectively combat crime. The treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on the extradition of offenders consists of 25 articles that create legal mechanisms to combat crime and prevent crime. In particular, under this treaty, the parties undertake to extradite persons accused of committing crimes or convicted by judicial agencies of one party and are in the territory of the other party to be held criminally liable or to be punished in the form of a deprivation of liberty. The same treaty also lists the conditions under which the extradition of wrongdoers takes place. In particular, extradition is carried out if, under the legislation of both parties for a crime against which extradition is requested, a minimum penalty is imposed in the form of a deprivation of liberty of at least one year, and also if a portion of the punishment that remains to be carried out. who is also asked about is not less than a year old. The treaty also contains a list of reasons for refusing to issue offenders, such as if a person is a citizen, such as Ukraine, or if asked by Brazil, a Brazilian citizen. If a person has already been brought before a court, he has been pardoned or amnestyd in the requesting party for political crimes not considered to be crimes of a military nature. In order to implement this treaty, article 9 of the Treaty defines the competent authorities of Ukraine and Brazil to ensure that the protocol is implemented. The pre-detainment procedure is also defined in the text of the treaty and is no different from the similar treaties that we have made with many other countries. In view of the fact that this treaty creates favourable conditions for us to take the next step in ensuring the prevention of crime and the effective fight against crime, I propose that we decide on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on the issue of offenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u246	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Boris, the insular question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u247	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Please state the crimes of a political nature. Is this the case with Ukrainian legislation? I mean, there are crimes against humanity, against peace, and so on. What does it mean to be more specific, in this part, about crimes of a political nature?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u248	It is meant that if there are such crimes in Ukraine or Brazil, and punishment is foreseen for them, that is, what we might recall from our previous country, is the issuing of such Brazilian offenders who will commit similar crimes against Brazil and in Ukraine, they will not be issued in accordance with this treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u249	Yes, thank you, what other questions? None. Have a seat, please. Committee position, please. The committee proposes to approve, or ratify, the treaty. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on the Extradition of Offenders. Registration number 0203, please vote. [[13:15:27]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No.150 on the Administration of Work: Role, Functions and Organization is under consideration. All the necessary documents are available. The committee's decision is. Is there a need to discuss this document? I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No.150 on Labour Administration: Role, Functions and Organization. Registration number 0185. Please vote. [[13:16:16]] For 358 Decision taken. A project on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on technical cooperation and grant assistance is under review. All the necessary documents are also available. The committee's decision is. Is there a need to consider this? I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on Technical Cooperation and Grant Assistance. Registration number 0208. Please vote. [[13:17:04]] For 354 Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the use of the Necka airfield. Is there a need to consider this document? Please report from the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, we'll listen and we'll vote. Please, from the committee of the Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich. Well, we'll listen to the government. From the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u250	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Question: "Affordable for Ukraine" ratification? By the way, Russia assumes responsibility for delivering parts, servicing and maintaining the airstrip to train the airship. So the committee has considered it and asked you to ratify it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u251	Yes, please, School, microphone. Then Puzakov, then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u252	First of all, I want to point out that it's not that simple. This allows Russia to use the Saka range and the testing of technology. Russia provides Ukraine with spare parts of the aggregate, all of which are all of the same, but the movement through the customs border of Ukraine and the customs border of the Russian Federation of Arms, Military Technology, Technical and Technological Equipment is carried out under customs control without the removal of customs duties, excise duties and other taxes. That's why I'm here. Once again here: it's a very, very interesting law, and so just take it and. Ratification with the fact that it is advantageous for Ukraine is not true, because this ratification of Ukraine is not, in fact, convenient. I'd like anyone who wants to vote for ratification to know that because in this situation it's not just the use of the Saka range, it's the movement of goods across the customs border. And you know how much technology is going to be carried out. So I'd like it not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u253	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, get ready for Carmazin. Please very briefly, dear colleagues, in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u254	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština For Ukraine, the agreement provides an opportunity to ensure the technical integrity and continuation of the life cycles of U.K. Air Force aircraft, to obtain modern military and technical information in the areas of aircraft construction and military use and aircraft operation, to preserve the unique material base of the Necka range, to improve aviation and technical equipment, to reduce take-off and to land aircraft. In addition, the agreement will contribute to the economy of the monetary resources needed to maintain the operational status of aircraft of the military and military forces of Ukraine and the range, as well as to strengthen Ukraine's bilateral relations with the Russian Federation and the implementation of the provisions between the two states on military and technical cooperation. But in doing so, I personally have a number of questions, although in general our faction will maintain the position of the treaty. Why, without cutting their planes into scrap metal, did the polygons release cattle, and the airport buildings under the discotheques and warehouses at the holding of the second hend, the anti-national authorities started building new ones? That's how famous we are, masters and patriots of the state. [[in quotes]] That's right. The Kirovgradians spent a week with bitter pain and tears on the last plane that rose from the unique airport of Kanatovo, making three rounds over the city, and with a terrible gulu disappeared. Everyone wanted to see the last hero's face at this moment, and you can imagine him. People have cursed that day that brought so - called independence and freedom to Ukraine. One thing is not clear: How does this benefit the State, and who does it, and for what purpose? Of course, the goal is to stand by the International Monetary Fund and the United States. Imagine how many Ace pilots are out of a job! And their families, with their arms stretched out, are released in the white world. And the moral trauma of these aces is not measured, nor is it compensated to anyone. Blow it all up, roll up your sleeve, and say, "You're building new ranges and planes." [[in quotes]] And now Ukraine has agreed to ratify the agreement between the two states -- Ukraine and Russia -- on the use of the Necka landing range. And it would be good for this thread to unite these nations and never break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u255	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u256	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The Party of Fatherland’s Defenders has always advocated the protection of Ukraine’s political and economic sovereignty. This treaty, which is now being ratified, is absolutely contrary to the interests of Ukraine. I'm talking to the Communists. Do you think Putin respects traitors? He doesn't respect me. Putin respects his national patriots. So let's look at the legal side of both the political side and the economic side. In accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitution, ground military bases are not allowed to be located in Ukraine. Read it. Part seven. The 14th paragraph of the Transitional Regulations allows for the use of existing military bases in Ukraine for the temporary stay of foreign military formations only on lease terms in an orderly international treaty ratified by the Supreme Council. So we're supposed to be looking at what now? The terms of the lease and the order of the contract that we will ratify with you. There's only one 4th article here that speaks of financial accounting in spare parts. And I'm drawing your attention. For those of you who haven't read, there are patriots in this room. Article 6. The right of ownership of movable and immovable property acquired to provide for the needs of the polygon after signing this agreement belongs to the party that has financed, created, purchased and supplied it. At the same time, the Ukrainian side ensures its preservation. That's it. They put whatever we have in our territory, it'll be their property. People are good, please tell me, is there a conscience in the Ministry of Justice? Does the Secretary of Defense have a conscience? Did he just take Velizhansky there from Crimea to sell the land of Ukraine? I urge you to stop selling land to Ukraine. And look, article 7th. Same thing. What in Ukraine’s national interests is such a deal? Read it, look. If you're giving up, remember how you just ratified the deal, not just a week ago, but a week ago, that we're compensating Russia for a Russian missile crash. And there's an unfinished criminal case that's not our fault. And we take it and we pay for it. I'm talking about people who vote today, I'm going to say that they didn't vote, they didn't even wave, they didn't go up to that level. I urge you not to do that. And the fifth column, I tell you, will not pass your purpose, you will be stopped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u257	Question completed. For reasons, please, Bubba. Time's up, dear fellows. Question completed. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u258	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I want to tell those great defenders of the country that they're going to figure something out when they're making such speeches with determination, cheer, patriotic. We have already destroyed a lot of things with thoughtless reform, with decisions during a time of so-called military reform. Yes, the Necka range needs Russia, and at the same time we need Russian ranges to train missile forces, I mean rocket training, tactical missiles to launch anti-aircraft weapons. And what happened to us in Ukraine. That's why we don't have these polygons. The Socialist faction will vote in favour and calls for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the use of the Necka airfield. [[Registration number 0152]] Please vote. [[13:26:40]] For 277 Decision taken. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Ukraine's Economic Policy: Current Issues" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5703]] From the committee, please. Draft decree on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings. And we've already voted Japan. We've already voted. All ratifications have been voted on. A draft decree on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings "Economic policy of Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Current questions." Philippe Philipovich, briefly and we will vote. He's not carrying any political loads on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee will consider the draft decree and recommend it to you before it is adopted. First. It's to endorse parliamentary hearing recommendations, "Ukraine's Economic Policy. Current questions." The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment to inform the Supreme Council in the second half of 2004 about the state of implementation of parliamentary hearing recommendations. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the development of state economic and social development programmes and programmes of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as in the preparation of draft laws on the State Budget for the coming fiscal years, the adoption of legal instruments to take into account recommendations, observations and proposals made by participants in parliamentary hearings. In the second half of 2004, inform the Supreme Council. The publication of the Supreme Council in its order to prepare and produce a collection of materials based on parliamentary hearings. Control over the execution of this decree on our committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, you see, the project, I think, doesn't contradict you. Therefore, there is every reason to put to the vote approval and immediately in the draft resolution on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings "The economic policy of Ukraine. Current questions." Registration number 5703. Please vote. [[13:29:10]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the customs treatment of goods, 5446, is being announced for consideration. Please. We discussed it. This is about diplomatic representation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u262	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a very simple fact: each of you who was in Kiev, in the courtyard of the Pacific diplomatic representations, could be surprised by the large number of cars, such as 17 in the courtyard of the Canadian Embassy. The simple question is, why are they standing there? And in order to sell an old car, you have to pay for excise duty and customs as a new one. Clearly, this is beyond all reasonableness, and transporting it back to the ocean there is no desire, because transportation seems to be in a very serious amount. I was surprised by this situation and deeply grateful to my colleague Sergio Osica, who studied the matter both as a diplomat and as a national deputy. The point is that Ukraine suffers, including appropriate measures to tax our cars, which are in the use of our diplomatic representations. Appropriate measures have been taken by the States of Egypt, India, Canada, the United States, and so forth. So this seems to be a small issue, but apart from irritation, it doesn't cause anything, there's no budget filling, because it's impossible to sell and it's still not paying the tax. So our proposal, along with the National Deputy Osika, which I think is supported by all the relevant institutions, is to simplify this order without giving aid, to allow us to import and use in terms of intelligence. I think that all of the colleagues who have communicated with diplomatic representatives here in Ukraine in any way are supportive of this, because this is a matter that needs to be resolved and put at this point. And the second part of the bill that raised doubts about scientific expertise, but I think it's going to be backed by a hall. We offer to simplify taxation and allow our diplomats, who are, in fact, the least paid in the world, in an untaxed regime after long-term overseas shipping, to import a car. There's a meager salary that our diplomat, who works at the Central Apparatus. It doesn't give him the ability, well, to exist properly at all. The money he saves from the maintenance he receives abroad and buys a car without being able to do it here in our country might not be taxed. In my view, this bill is able to solve a number of issues related to the image, the real image of Ukraine, to move away from the trifles and put everything in its place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u263	Yes. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, well, the question is quite clear. Let's take a look at it. Please, Tushka microphone, then stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u264	Chush, the Socialist faction. So, respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich! This law should have passed through our committee. He was before our committee. Only the other authors were. We turned him down. Now it's being spent, it's actually a tax on diplomats, and two years ago we were looking at a lot of cars and other property that wasn't taxed through diplomatic channels. It's a big hole in our Tomogene legislation. I ask that this law not to vote now, to return to our committee to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u265	Dear colleagues! I want you to look again at this issue calmly and carefully. Please, Igor Ostash. Because we're looking for a financial hole where it's not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u266	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine." Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also considered this issue and has supported and asked you to vote and for what reasons. This document does not primarily protect foreign diplomats, but it protects our own diplomats abroad, because it is usually an international practice, and it builds on the basis of parity. That is, as foreign diplomats are treated in Ukraine, so do Ukrainian diplomats abroad. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs requests that this document be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u267	Andrew School, then Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u268	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I would like to emphasize, you know, of course, that Ukrainian diplomats don't get the kind of material reward that they're supposed to get, representing Ukraine. But on the other hand, just, you know, in this situation, the bill has this kind of duality: import of these. A license to import a car, well, in principle, once a year is quite enough. But once again, I would like to point out that Ukrainian diplomats don't get enough material stimulation because they represent the state, they have all the priorities that other diplomats have in their rank and status. So, of course, there is some duality in this bill, but you can't keep looking for holes and nuances that, in principle, shouldn't exist under honest authority. Well, this dishonest power is not going to last long, and diplomats are going to work for one more year and represent the Ukrainian state with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u269	Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u270	Dear National Deputies! I think it's a completely immoral bill, which, by the way, passed a profile committee. Would you please tell our diplomats to take their cars to Ukraine without taxes? Why don't we release the low-income, scrappy ones who put money in there and buy those backed cars? No, they have to pay in full. No, diplomats have to be released. More than that, I'm going to report to you as a specialist: there's no right to freedom in international law, there's no right to transfer tax goods: there's exemption - on. Personal items and personal equipment. But there is no such thing as excise goods. You don't have to make a new hole on the border of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u271	Dear colleagues. That's enough, dear fellows! We're done. The black man had long raised his hand and Ratusniak raised his hand. Just to say, when we're abroad at the reception, drivers serve there instead of waiters, they work. That's what our embassies do. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, I think it would be non-diplomatic not to adopt the Law on Diplomats. Cars can be viewed as personal things, not tax goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u273	It's a walkie-talkie. One minute, Ratchet, then you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u274	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'd just like to have a specific limit on the quantity. So if a diplomat, it's one machine so that a hundred thousand new cars won't get here tomorrow. That's all there is to it. And then back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u275	It's dusty. Then it's Roadside.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u276	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am somewhat surprised by the position of the President's permanent representative in the Supreme Council, who was passing a bill that was not in the order of the day, which suddenly appears to be detrimental to the State budget, because only two years ago, when this instrument is completely not for diplomats, Mr. Alexander, but for bribers, bureaucrats who have used these opportunities to steal the State budget. I insist that this bill be passed by the Budget Committee in accordance with Article 27 of the Budget Code. Now we need to take it off the table, include a rule that it can't be introduced before January 1st, 2005. And if this authority allows it, I am convinced that since January 1st 2005, this hole will be closed, it has no bearing on diplomats. This bill has a direct bearing on those who want to use it and import it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u277	Paul Silent. Then it's Roadside. All of it. And with regard to committees, respectable colleagues. It's sent to all the committees, let's get our opinions. Calm down, he gave it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u278	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I have the impression that most people are not familiar with the text that is proposed. And they come up with values that are just hypertrophy: budget damage, a hole in capital flows. Your Honor, ask the diplomatic services. This is where Vladimir Yuriovich Yelchenko sits, and he'll tell you what it is about the things a diplomat does when he leaves his service, and his car is forced to pay huge sums today. And that's what this is about. And I'd like us to. So let us, Peter Alexiyovich, if we have any warnings, let us regulate them. But the point is that these are the things that are being polished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u279	Vladimir Jelchenko. Please give me a brief position of MMS on this. It's a friendly, closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u280	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Alexander Viktorovich made all the arguments. I won't be anything more. I'm just surprised at the position of Mr. Dusty and Mr. Teriochin, because there's no hole in the budget. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u281	Please give the opportunity to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u282	Mr. Zadrodnoy told you what this is about, first of all, not even Ukrainian diplomats. Note that as many as a dozen countries grow each day. They're introducing what's called measures, i.e. reverses against Ukrainian diplomats. In the United States, for example, even if this law is adopted only with regard to our diplomats, the Ukrainian has already to pay for a registration fee for a car that is still not convenient to import, even without taxes on our borders. And there's more and more of these countries. So Ukrainian diplomats imported 0.01 cars into Ukraine that were imported into the country. The kind of race I'm talking about, I just don't understand this incompetence. I'm very sorry, but I'm just absolutely surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u283	It's expensive, please. We're going to vote now. It's expensive. Calm down, dear fellows, calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u284	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I want to clarify the language not about the benefits. We have 74 embassies in Kiev that import cars for use. Well multiply by about 5, that's about 350 cars. To get rid of them later, when the deadline has passed, they must be sold but sold at a price corresponding to the date of operation below. According to Article 297 of the Customs Code, this cannot be done. Our offer is that there are no benefits. Import into import mode, thus removing the ban. All of it. What's going on with any other charges is bullshit, that's not true. So in that sense, I'm just asking you to read the bill, it's, it's in the agenda. I asked my head to come back this morning, he's an apprentice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u285	Yes, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in the first reading and generally as a law, registration number 5246. Please vote. [[13:43:36]] For 253 The law is passed. The factions? Please. Dear colleagues, please listen to me vote. "Our Ukraine" - 4; "Regions of Ukraine" - 50; faction of Communists - 57; SDPU - 39; "Deminiciates", "The People's Government" - 25, "Trudova Ukraine" - 14, National Agrarian - 20, SPI - 2, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The Union" - 17, NDP, "Industrials and Entrepreneurs" - 7, "Centre" - 14, Postfaction - 4 I'm voting for the day-to-day draft decision to mark the 110th anniversary of Ukrainian football and the 100th anniversary of the football team "Ukraine". Registration number 5449. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[13:44:45]] For 281 Order's on. Is there a need, this document you have, to report? None. I'm voting on the draft decree as a decree to mark the 110th anniversary of Ukrainian football. Please vote. Registration number 5449. [[13:45:23]] For 329 It's been decided. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation of petroleum products. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[13:45:56]] For 186 Dear colleagues, I'm told I made a mistake. Just a minute. For this reason, there are two draft laws -- governmental and national deputies. So I'm going to put it to a vote, please, on the inclusion of two draft laws in the agenda for amending some of Ukraine's laws on taxation of petroleum products. These are registration numbers - 5579, 5579-1. Please vote. [[1:46:42]] For 262 Questions are included in the agenda. I am asking for the report by Sicily Alexi Ivanovich, Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs and European Integration. Get ready for Rudzkowski. We continue to work for 14 hours for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that you consider a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's tax laws, designed to improve the mechanism for state regulation of oil transactions and to ensure the conditions for the stable functioning of the market for these products in Ukraine. Rates of excise duty on oil products set by the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates for certain goods of production. And it is also regulated by the Tax System Act, which provides that only the Supreme Council sets rates, taxes, and congregations. In such a situation, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers has been deprived of the possibility of using tax scales to react quickly to the world’s oil and oil - products price markets. It is known that between March 30th and June 1st, the prices of petrol and diesel have changed, almost a half-time, and the 95th increase is 54.2 percent. So that doesn't correspond to the rise in world oil prices in the oil markets. What I want to say is that the government has taken a number of measures to stabilize the market and other than the measures that have been taken, so has the decision to set up an oil reserve fund to be used during the period of sharp price increases and to amend the 2004 State Budget, which was adopted by the national MPs. Thus, such a reserve will be created, but with a view to responding quickly to such deviations in the bill proposed by the government, it is proposed that the government make changes and give the government the right to make changes to the rates of the excise congregation in such an emergency situation. Therefore, it is suggested that we consider and adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u287	Yes, thank you. Please sit Alexia Ivanovich. Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudzkowski, please. Prepare for the committee Vasil Petrovich Tsushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u288	Dear colleagues! Bill 5579-1, which I developed with the help of committee experts, offers not the kind of proposal that the government makes by the end of the year, but for the period that we go on vacation by September 5th, in order to exclude the government's right to regulate the amount of excise duty, the excise duty on petroleum products. And of course, on the other hand, it is proposed to set a zero rate for imports of petroleum products into Ukraine. The zero rate of oil products from other countries that do not enter the free trade zone is meant to mean that the supply of petroleum products from Russia is zero if the oil products come from the Baltic or from another state, they are already subject to import duties in addition to excise duties. And so in order to make non-discriminatory conditions and make more diversified sources of supply, and thus, to lower the price of oil products, you had to make that decision. Of course, there is a discussion as to whether it is necessary to do so. We do not know what the situation will be in the world’s energy markets, perhaps the price of oil in connection with the situation in Iraq will increase dramatically as the transfer of power to the Iraqi government takes place, and oil from Iraq will not be supplied to the world’s markets. There is no exception that the price of oil in world markets can double. But if the Supreme Council doesn't work at this time, we won't be able to reduce excise duties to lower the price or make some compensator so that the price of oil products, the price of bread, and the price of other things don't go up. And so my position and the position of socialists is to do this in an exclusive order and only until the beginning of the next session, by September 5, because the position of the people's deputies and ours, that we should not allow the government to regulate excise duties, customs, all of this should remain with the Supreme Council and only be regulated by legislation. But the situation that we have right now, the unstable prices of energy, we have to give the government a chance to react, given what we're currently going through, in fact, harvesting. We can't put our peasants again before the fact that we pay in three ways to pay for fuel-oil materials. Requesting to support a tire-one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u289	Thank you, sit down, please. From the committee, dear colleagues. Wait. Cushka Vasil Petrovich from the committee, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u290	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Chush, the Socialist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you, I have a request: our committee has considered these two bills, then the following three - 5633, 5675 and 5576 - are still the same, one question. I ask: we need to report that they are on the agenda so that we can view them as one issue. Otherwise, the Committee's decision would break. I can't report on parts of them -- we're all looking at them as one question. A separate vote may be taken, but it may be considered as one question. And we'll save time today. If possible, put to the vote in such a way that it is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, let's take a look at this and then move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u292	Well, then, on these bills. The Committee considered and proposed. Dear colleagues, if we accept a proposal from the Government or a proposal from our colleague Rudzkowski, we violate the Constitution because taxes are determined solely by laws and solely by the Supreme Council. We no longer allow decrees to be issued by the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, our committee has clearly proposed: these two bills, both of them, should be rejected. That is, to vote against both bills. If we have to make a decision to change the excise collection now, then we have to take it in the hall. Further bills are those that offer these options. The Committee proposes that both bills be rejected as violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and laws. Therefore, it is possible not to waste time on them. I suggest we turn it down and don't waste time on them. And spend time on those who offer the essence of changing the situation on the oil market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u293	I take it we want to repeal the Constitution by law, don't we? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u294	The Constitution wants to be repealed by law, and the Government proposes both my lord and my comrade Rudzkowski. He didn't get it straight. The socialists will rush him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u295	Let us move on to the discussion of two bills. Two for. Two: "against." Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u296	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this law is completely unconstitutional, it violates article 92. That's the first one. The other one. This law could be called the financing of the election campaign by Viktor Yanukovic or another candidate from power. Aren't you a little short, Your Honor?Oh, my God! You show the head of the holding fund yesterday, you say on every channel that's good that you sold Pavlogradugol for 1 billion 400 million dollars. And in a year of profitable work, this company would give 1 billion 726 million dollars. Haven't you had enough? Aren't you going to eat? Eat once and for all. What are you doing? So, honourable officials, we are absolutely against it. It's a violation of the Constitution, and in whatever way the Constitutional Court is today, it's going to be on holiday or not going to Canicles, and I think it's going to be called down now, and there's not going to be any holidays in the Constitutional Court. But Parliament's right under the Constitution cannot be given to the government. It was you, the government, who allowed these prices to rise, that you deliberately did. Yesterday, your Prime Minister was in Odessa at the oil refinery, and Lukoila's factory got $3 million, which costs $300-400 million. And today you're saying, "Here we are giving benefactors to less gasoline in Ukraine." First take everything to the Ukrainian, survive it entirely, and then count on what we're going to vote, Ukrainian national MPs, against national interests. You've given this opportunity to raise prices by 60 percent at the same time, and the world price has only risen by 20. How? Why didn't either of you get shot? Why are you all still sitting? Why are you all on the 500 Mercedes? Are you government officials? That's why this law is directed against both the people of Ukraine, and I sincerely thank my colleague Tsuko that the committee and he have a courageous position and expressed it here that we should vote against all these bills. I think the Socialists will deal with those who propose other bills that go against the interests of the people, please deal with them yourself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u297	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski. Prepare Solomon. We've got one against us. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u298	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question for everyone and myself. Why do oil prices rise just before the harvest? In the harvest, why are two powerful oil refineries planning to become part of a planned so - called repair? Why does the state, the government, have no government supply of oil to throw oil products out of stock at a time of crisis? Why did the head of the Costusev Antimonopoly Committee receive the President's order for the gas crisis? This is because of the great conspiracy in Ukraine against the Ukrainian people. Four oil companies conspired with each other, conspired with the Antimonopoly Committee, conspired with the government, conspired with the President's Administration, and immediately raised oil prices. And interestingly enough, no one answered, only Costusev was given a presidential order. The bill that's been introduced is now being submitted to us for consideration, it's absolutely not solving any problem. On the contrary, after such appropriate decisions had been made earlier, the price of petroleum products did not fall, but the difference between tax exemptions and other activities was in the pocket of the respective oil - market outlets. What I'd like to say. However, they suggest that the government be empowered to establish its own laws. Recall the time when Leonid Kuchma ruled the Cabinet of Ministers, and he had the authority to issue decrees bearing the power of the law. What have we got out of this? And today, having, well then, there was no Constitution, today having a Constitution, the 92nd article of the Constitution, where it says that exclusively the laws of Ukraine define taxes and congregations. [[I don't want to count it.]] Please tell me, could the government make such an illiterate decision? The MP may not have read anything, but in the government they had to think about it? Therefore, honourable colleagues, all these laws must be given, as they say, from the gate of the return and simply not considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u299	Yes. Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u300	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the passions that believe in this room, and they're primarily linked to what's coming together in the harsh grip of two oligarch clans, one who's already sucked into an oil pipeline and trying to keep their dividends and their profits, and the other who sees it and shouts, they steal it and they don't let us steal it and we won't let them steal it. Both are slaves. It would be very good if there wasn't private property in this particular area of activity, like oil and gas, it was in the government, all of the profits that are now made by private equity or hidden, in the form of equity companies, would belong to the whole nation, so that through proper taxes they would come to the State Budget in the form of deductions to the Pension Fund, and that would be good and understandable. But in order to do that, we need to reinvigorate the power of the people into Soviet power and the socialist system of reinvigorating instead of the predatory capitalist system that is now established in Ukraine. That's why I'm talking to the passionate supporters of the Capitalist Motherland and the bourgeois Motherland, your business is black and dirty. We have to solve one question today that we have to do in order that, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine goes on holiday, these two months, there are certain factors that are important to prevent the price of oil products from rising, so that our farmers, they don't think every night about what the price will be for petrol tomorrow, diesel, oil, etc. Hence, from this point of view, it would be appropriate for a limited time for the Supreme Council to give authority to the government. And that's why so that it doesn't happen here, it's very encouraging for those who want to steal it themselves. Don't worry, you won't get it, it's none of your business. Others will steal. But our common concern with you is to control this so that people know where and how these are going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u301	Anatoly Seminoga, please. Do you have Anatoly Seminoga? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u302	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues, today we are really looking at the government's bill first, and it's surprising the position of the government. Surprisingly, in May months, oil prices rose considerably. And today, almost the second month of the world's decline in oil products is taking place in the world. But somehow, as we have fixed prices of 2.90 on the most popular gasoline, so to this day, it still lasts. And no measure, no action by the government was aimed at lowering these prices. Finally, today, national MPs have been able to submit these bills to the Supreme Council, which really have the opportunity to actually lower prices in the Ukraine oil market. And what's surprising is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, which offers only one thing -- to give him authority, or another bill -- proposes to issue licenses for the processing of petroleum products and its implementation. This will not in any way lead to a decrease in the price of petroleum products, and the price of petroleum products will increase, not to mention that these bills are indeed a violation of the Constitution, particularly article 92, which says that this is the prerogative of the Supreme Council alone. I propose to reject these two bills, which do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u303	Yeah, the speech's over. For reasons, please, Cherniak, then Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u304	Respectable national MPs, distinguished voters, smelled oil and gasoline in the session hall. The questions are obvious, clear, simple and clear. According to article 92 of the Constitution, the government cannot regulate excise duties and duties. Excise, customs, and congregations can only be regulated by laws. So basically, there's nothing to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u305	Michaela Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u306	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I came back from the Cherka district yesterday. That week I was in the Cherniewsky region, in Hmelnicki, Vinnicki. Where did I not communicate with the villagers? Vladimir Mikhailovich, despite the fact that you have instructed the committee to influence the situation so that Kabmin can deal with the fuel situation, so far the peasants have not received fuel at the price of the fuel. When will it be, we don't know? I was already on the phone from the Dniproperty, and the harvest is already beginning, and the grains are already cutting. Indeed, there are several hours left of our Parliament's work, and we will not be able to influence the situation in order for the villagers to feel that there are national electorates here, not those who advocate their own interests. I ask you once again to influence this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u307	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u308	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished colleagues who have criticized my law! What you're saying is that the proposed law violates the constitution is parliamentary demagogies, because the constitution protects the rights of people, the right to a decent life, the control of the state at prices. As you go to the holidays, you will lie in the sun and get 12,000 vacations, and the people at this time will have to be in the countryside to gather that seed to feed the nation and its people. And the prices for oil products in August will be twice as high. And we leave no mechanism for the government to lower fuel and diesel prices. And we have to, if we don't adopt this law, take out the excise. Remove the excise duties completely and now reduce by 20 percent the price of oil products and thus support the real village.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m0.u309	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask in the heat. Calm down! In the heat of political controversy, we do not use unacceptable practices. If someone says that he is on leave, he will not be transferred to all national deputies. And these aren't allowed, and I'm asking them not to use them anymore, because the authority in the Supreme Council is still so low. Let's take a closer look at the Constitution, based on what the Constitution is, we can't pay attention to the Constitution. This way. So pay attention, I'm voting. The motives are over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law, government 5579, on amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:10:13]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The draft law, registration number 5579-1, authors Rudzikowski, Lisin: on amending certain laws of Ukraine on taxation matters. [[on the establishment by 5 September 2004 of a zero import duty rate and the change in excise duty rates for individual oil products]] Based on the base. The motives are over! [[14:10:57]] For-32 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let us give the commission, and you support it, that the bills that come to the Supreme Council from the legislators of the legislative initiative, if they directly conflict with the Constitution, return them without consideration to the subjects of the legislative initiative. And for that, the Legal Department should be preparing, or the Scientific and Expert Office, preliminary conclusions. We're just going to have to get this system back on track. Yes, come on, dear fellows, let's vote for inclusion to. And then we'll call it a break. We need to put in order the daily bills 5570, 5570-1, 5570-2. These are draft laws amending some Ukrainian laws on oil, gasoline and diesel taxes. I am voting for the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. Please vote. These are the laws of Alexander Moroz, Seminoga, and Osika. [[14:12:22]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Then let's go back to these questions after the break. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. Please remember, we're working until the 19th and more today.
