ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:26]] Registered -402 The 402 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Law on National Compulsory Social Health Insurance. We finished the report. And now we're going to the co-reports. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, has the floor. Prepare for the head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, one of the most pressing social problems in our country today is the poor health system. The level of morbidity of the population, as in general the situation in the industry, is critical. According to 2003 only 42 per cent of the population were considered to be healthy; the remaining 58 per cent required systemic treatment. The main reasons for such a joyless painting. First. Insufficient funding, especially budget resources, to ensure the effective functioning of the health system. By the way, health costs per Ukrainian resident account for 111 seats among 190 countries. Second. Insufficient medical and logistical health care. Third. Irregular organization of the health-care system, the imbalance in its primary, secondary and third levels. And the fourth. Very low pay for health workers. There was a need for a multi-channel funding mechanism for health services. All these and many other problems are intended to address the bill under consideration, 4505. It defines the legal, social, financial, economic, institutional basis for compulsory public social insurance with a view to exercising the right of citizens to free health insurance provided for in article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The experience of the European Union countries with a socially oriented market economy shows that the financing of the health financial system based on the compulsory social insurance model is the best. It ensures, compared with other financing models, both the high quality of the provision of health services and the proper level of compliance with social guarantees in the area of health care. The adoption of this bill will provide a solution to social, economic, legal problems in the health sector related to the provision of health care to the population in the current context and will ensure that medical facilities and the quality of medical care are adequately monitored. Simply put, this law will help to get our health out of the deep pit where it is today. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour unanimously supported Bill 4505, supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Ministry of Health, a positive response and the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. The Committee calls upon all deputies to vote in favour of the bill, as it fully complies with the Ukrainian Constitution, the concept of social security for Ukrainian citizens, the basics of Ukrainian legislation and general government social insurance and, above all, the expectation and aspirations of the population of Ukraine. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u3	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich, please sit down. The word has the head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. Please, Mikola Efremovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to say that this bill has been processed and discussed at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. We've practically led him over the last two years to the optimal version he was presented in last year. This time, the national deputies again submitted the bill. And I would like to say that the bill of social law, the bill has a number of inaccuracies, there are a number of issues that may be controversial and which may cause some doubts. But given that the drafters of the bill put one of the main tasks, namely, to increase not only the financing of the health sector but also raise one of the main issues of health - care reform, which would enable economic, or efficient, use of resources in the health sector, that is, the use of funds, as well as health - care institutions, to work more effectively. In this regard, I think it would be appropriate to vote in favour of the bill in order to reform the health sector. At the same time, there is a warning. Warnings — What? The warning is that this may be some extra taxation from the Wages Fund, but we know that health care is one of the most expensive industries, and all the costs are going to have to be looked for somewhere. And next, there's a warning that this is a non-state fund, and some say that, like other non-state funds, it can accumulate money and somehow spend it on purpose. Maybe it is. I think it would be worth doing to make it a state fund, but according to the positions that are and according to the law in the Final Positions, it is written that the law enters into force on 1 January 2006, in my opinion, there will be enough time to adopt a number of laws that would reform the health sector, so I would like to support this bill, because it would have contributed to at least some changes in the health sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u5	Thank you, Mikolo Efremovich, sit down, please. Yes, Your Honor, we have 17-18 minutes to discuss. Please, Karmazin, follow him Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 49 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to health care, medical care, and health insurance. Please tell me, is there a real fulfillment of this right today? Of course not. We're forced to find out the facts today when a lot of hospitals say, "Come with your medicine, come with your bandages, come with everything else." What, then, are we paying taxes for? So it is clear that this sector needs to be reformed. I have carefully studied both bills submitted by the authors and have concluded that the basics of Ukrainian legislation on compulsory state social insurance define health insurance as part of a system of compulsory public social insurance, the law and organizational principles of which are defined by law. But there is no such law yet. That is why the issue of the adoption of this law is raised. According to this project, which is presented, and I prefer the bill 4505, submitted by France, Bogotire and Lilia Grigorovich, who reported this issue today, a member of the faction "Our Ukraine". According to this project, insurance contributions are paid to the Medical Insurance Fund, and their size should be determined annually by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that makes me happy, because politicians are going to look at this question every year, and it's going to go transparent. And that's a positive moment in this bill. Costs will be paid for the medical services provided to insured persons. What do I care? This is what is concerned about the Polish National Deputy, the head of the committee who has just reported that the introduction would be another type of contribution to the compulsory state social insurance. So it's going to be a little bit more tax pressure on business subjects, and we're not going anywhere. So I think it's only necessary to do this in a complex, given what's been going on in other countries. As evidenced by the rich history of global health insurance, at an initial stage the most efficient centralized systems of social compulsory health insurance, for which the central insurance organization assumes responsibility for the insurance of citizens involved in the system. But at the same time, I believe that the first reading of Bill 4505 will require a comprehensive review of the rates for other types of compulsory payments so that we can get the economy out of the shadows, not the other way around, into the shadows. That's why I think I should adopt the first draft of the first draft and work closely, taking into account the opinions of all committees and speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, Puzakov. Get ready for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u8	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In large numbers, the state and authority in place have completely moved away from this area. It is clear that it does not need healthy people and 48 million more. There is no need for a doctor who survives all the time in search of money laundering to create conditions for the patient. You can refer to these people as chief physician of the 4th City Hospital of Emergency Care of the City of Kirograd Tkača Mikola Leontijovich, who has been beating the thresholds of bureaucrats for several years in search of funds to complete the building of the surgical corps of the hospital and Jarinic Vladimir Ilarionovitch, chief physician of the district oncodipenser. These people in the hospital are, unfortunately, not able to see, because they are just money launderers for the institutions. What kind of health care can we talk about when every 45 minutes comes from a person’s life. According to the Ministry of Health, mortality in the 35-54 age group is 10 times higher than in Europe. The mortality rate is several times higher than the birth rate. Although the Ukrainian Constitution proclaims the right of citizens to free health care, where is it secured in our country? The patient is just crossing the threshold of the hospital, the first question is, what is the amount of money you have? How can a sick person be spent in a hospital for 50 copies? The government simply bullies people and turns into a theater of absurdity in which every move is a front-line farce: success and stability and effectiveness only in paper reports. Funding has been made in the Kirovograd district and throughout the country by 30 percent of the need. For example, the Malovsky district of Kirovograd, which was a model for the functioning of medical facilities 13 years ago, is not worth talking about today. The district’s medical facilities, all without exception, need immediate capital repairs, equipment and equipment, are out of order, and it is simply not possible to work under such conditions, and this does not bother any of the district’s authorities. For the district’s medical facilities to function, it takes about 10 million dollars, and only 37.3 percent of the need has been confirmed. So what kind of medical care and social insurance might a sick person be thinking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u9	Please, John the Rabbit. I can't see. Mironenko. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u10	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote in favour of the bill for the following reasons. First, the bill has been drafted in line with the same capitalist orientation that has been in place since 1991 and has already caused much distress to our people. Medical insurance will be followed, we understand, and the pay will be paid, officially, health and so on. We think we have to go the other way. The bill ensures that the State assumes responsibility for the health and life of the people and transfers them to the fund. Which is the care of funds, trusts and so on, we already know. And, of course, you can't rely on that. Besides, we're always told that this is going to do us good, and it's going to do us good, but why not ensure what we had in socialism? After all, this bill is a step back from the free health that has existed in our country. We're told that it's not true again. We all know, we have to stop stealing, there will be money. Secondly, universal privatization must be halted - funds will be available. This and a lot of others have talked about what it is that Gosbudget can provide, the means necessary for the development of free health care. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine insists on the development of free health care, which has been demonstrated by the situation around the world. Close to Cuba, where there is free health care, there is health insurance and health care in the United States. And let the representative of the Committee on Social Policy, who admired this situation, remember in the same United States how they treat people where they die for free. Are we going that way? Where a lot of people pay, he's being treated to some degree. We must not allow the transfer of health care to taxpayers. We believe that doing business for the health, for the lives of people is immoral, criminal, it is, in general, not progressive. In the event of the entry into power of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, it will ensure the restoration and development of free health care. Cuba retains free health care, free education. Despite the intense pressure of the United States, she resisted. Why? Because there are those conquests of workers that truly benefit them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u11	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, please. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u12	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our bourgeois Parliament has been introduced to consider another bourgeois so-called reformist bill submitted by the bourgeois deputies. And it's around this bill that they got into the arms and the MPs of the Social Democrats, and the deputies of our Ukraine, and the deputies of the Ukrainian regions, because they have one interest. I want to address those who listen to us. Hasn't it taught us how the reform so-called about, and we've moved from pension insurance to so-called retirement insurance, have you not felt it, my fellow countrymen, and the respectable radios taste of the transition from retirement to retirement insurance? Now, Ukraine's new bourgeoisie is offering to move from the pension insurance we had to the health insurance. Don't you think you're going to be fooled once again and dragged by the skin into the very chasm that you want to push away from. And these shameful reforms began since December 1991, when you believed these reforms, and they were finally confirmed in June 1996 when the bourgeois constitution that we live by today was adopted? Have you not felt, my fellow countrymen, that the so-called targeted social assistance that every Ukrainian shadow is now mentioned in Ukrainian bourgeoisie, how does it return to you in compensation for so-called residential services, transportation, etc.? Do you not feel that another time you are being deceived? And we, the Communist faction, urge you to understand that. It's not the so-called reforms that need to be reformed, it's the end of the looting of the people's funds that my friend was talking about right here in this rostrum. They joined themselves in pushing forward another deception of another antinational bourgeois bill and most, and bourgeois opposition. So I urge everyone who has not yet lost the taste of life. Do not believe the majority or the bourgeois opposition. Unite around the Communist Party of Ukraine and its representatives, and together we will overcome this repeated deception and this invasion. I want you to understand exactly what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u13	Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of "Trouble Ukraine". Andrew School, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u14	Honorable National MPs, back to the bill that should be aimed at improving the organization of the health system. This is the kind of pragmatic sober and realistic approach that our constituents expect from us. No demagogies, no cynical taste of misery and problems in the health system, no dirty and ridiculous politics, because we're here to agree that a bourgeois nurse or a bourgeois nurse from under a bourgeois patient in a bourgeois vessel is bringing out something bourgeois. We have seen that this room is where those national deputies and some factions who have not voted for medical insurance year after year are actually predestined to the long - suffering Ukrainian people, for whom they seem to care, and continue to be treated at their own expense. That's the truth. The truth is, without the medical insurance of the patient's family, there's going to be a list of drugs that he needs to buy, and if it's before or after the surgery twice as much, you're saving today. What's free? Free medical insurance is a sick person with insurance, and he's not worried about money, and the insurance company will talk to the hospital. Not for the first time in this room from the opponents of this bill do we hear, instead of clear and clear arguments, the voices of accusations and suspicions of everything, and what is the most ridiculous and repugnant is the primitive policy around the bill that has to fund medicine. Perhaps someone else in the camp wanted to create problems or difficulties. Please don't be angry with me, but the authorities are treating the institutions of state administration. She does not know the problems that ordinary people know in local or district hospitals or city hospitals. It's cynical for a deputy to go out here in this rostrum and say that this law is not necessary, but something else needs to be done to break the entire health system, which is barely working on the enthusiasm of medical workers. That's the truth. And the last. Regarding tax warnings. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill gives us the opportunity to review all other payments in a comprehensive manner. We will review them for the benefit of the health system. I urge you to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, and by this time we should have made it possible for the health care sector to become an insurance because we have passed the law. This is the last kind of insurance that didn't get its legal legislative principles. I call on the Ukrainian people's deputies to show their minds and vote in favour of the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u15	Yes, Andrew School. None. Vernighor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the honourable radio audience, first of all, the statement in the Social Committee's co-report made a mistake. I didn't support this bill on the committee, more than that. My bill has been registered in the Supreme Council, which I firmly oppose in order to create a new insurance fund that is public and public. We need to distinguish clearly with you what health insurance is and what insurance is. I always explain that when you read Anton Pavlovich Čechov, and he went to room six, it was for the king - appointed medical services for all residents. And when he visited as a nurse, it was an insurance medicine. Today, we do not have the right under the Constitution of Insurance to provide social insurance to the entire sector, as proposed by this bill. We must insure a person, an individual. How? And if a person loses his job, we have to make it up to him. We have all three foundations that are in place today that are just compensating for temporary loss of employment, or loss, not temporary, but permanent, like the Pension Fund. So my bill proposes some health insurance functions, such as complex and expensive diseases by diagnosis and treatment, to take to the Interim Labour Loss Fund by deciding the amount of insurance that is accepted each year before the State Budget to make sure that these costs are sufficient. But we're going to save two thirds of this new fund's money because the 586 offices that the Bill of Honouring Lilia Stepanovny provides for will not be created, and these offices that are already in operation today will do the same functions. So I firmly oppose the creation of a new fund, I'm voting with you today to move the first reading, and I'm telling you this as the head of the subcommittee that's leading these issues, so that we can postpone hearing the first reading to take account of other bills. I would like everyone to understand that this is not about insurance today but about insurance for every person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, since we have a draft decision on the inadmissibility of which Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik is the author, he has the opportunity to base his opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would very much like this problem, which is very important, not to be politicized. I'm a big fan of health insurance. Sadly, though, what you have been offered is an affair. Dear friends, this law increases the salary tax to 56 percent because the formation of the insurance fund will take place at the expense of the payroll fund. Add 37 and a half percent of existing ones plus industrial accident insurance - 13.8 and plus five - we go out 60 percent on the payroll fund. Remember how much effort was spent by the Supreme Council to get rid of the 52 percent that caused the Ukrainian economy to work in the shadows. Second argument. If we move from fiscal financing to a major insurance scheme, why should taxes increase? Third problem. If we go to insurance, let's decide how many insurance funds we have to have. We now have essentially a third insurance fund. Hospitals pay from one fund, insurance from industrial accidents -- aren't they the same problems? - it's the second fund, and now you're offered to swallow the third fund, the health insurance fund. Fourth problem. I've been trying to get information about this kind of fund recently. Try it yourself. They're opaque. We give the status of self-governing structures where the cost of income and expenditure is confirmed by them. And the last moment. This law provides for the introduction of a slave system of relations with citizens. Citizens do not have the right to choose a hospital where they are being treated will determine the appropriate department of the fund. So the honourable colleagues, in my opinion, have a draft law, and one and the other, which is not different, have no right to life, because we're going to bury the Ukrainian economy and we're not going to help medicine. On the contrary, I do not believe that such a law should be voted on and I ask for support for a decree on the non-admissibility of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u19	Yes, the honourable colleagues, with a motive, since this is the address of the Burjak committee, have the word Kaputin. Then it's Morozov. And we will be determined by vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to say that this bill is more financial than medical. There are many financial issues in this bill that have unfortunately not been addressed by the Committee on Finance and Banking. This has already talked about a very substantial workload on the payroll fund, it's about the creation of a financial fund, and these issues need to be discussed and considered in our committee. We sent you a letter, Vladimir Mikhailovich, asking you to write this bill to our committee. Unfortunately, it wasn't done, but we did talk about it and we sent you our conclusion that we can't support this bill because it wasn't fully discussed and it doesn't have a comprehensive financial analysis. So I ask you very much in the following, however, to send such documents to our committee and to take into account the position of our committee on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u21	People's MP Morozov, faction of our Ukraine. Then there's French.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u22	Here, before the break, the speaker spoke of political discoloration in the consideration of the bill. And I can confirm that because an alternative bill for unknown reasons was not considered by a committee headed by a regional deputy. I don't understand why the financial committee has failed to pass this bill, and I don't understand why Social Democrat Francis is the best Social Democrat of Dobkin, my co-author of an alternative project that is not being considered today. Instead, we are discussing the creation of a closed stockholder society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u23	Yes, Igor Francchuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u24	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, it is not just another bill dealing with the health system that is being considered. Today, it is a matter of whether national health reforms are being reformed or not. Since a number of factions and MPs are not present in this room today, the distinguished Vladimir Mihajlović, given the great social importance of this law, has already made such a proposal from the deputies, as co-sponsor of the bill, would like to postpone the vote on this bill to Thursday or next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, I've looked at the schedule here, and I can't do that. And the chairman of the regulatory committee tells me that I have no right to do that. We have the first decision to be unacceptable. I'll bet on the inadmissibility, then I'll give you my word before the vote. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, the first draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Inadmissibility of Ukraine’s draft Law on National Compulsory Social Health Insurance is to be voted on. [[Registration number 4505/CP2]] It's about inadmissibility. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:35:08]] For-147 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 44, Ukraine is 5, Communist faction is 59, Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is 0, Ukraine's Labour is 1, the People's Agrarian Party is 1, SPU is 17, Yulia Block Timoshenko is 16, Union is 0, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government is 0, NDP and PPU is 0, Center is 0, Postfaction is 4. [[united]] Before voting First Deputy Minister of Health Pedchenko Timur Viktorovich, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'll start with statistics. You went to the Ministry of Health three thousand and six hundred and sixty times last year to provide free, highly specialized medical care to your electorate. All your questions were considered and resolved. The Ministry of Health has one request -- to support the bill in its first reading today and to allow us, along with the two Committees of the Supreme Council on Health, Motherhood and Childhood and Social Policy, to work on it, taking into account all the suggestions and observations you have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u27	For the reasons of the vote, Boyko, please. Let's just not go to the discussion. The position of the government has been brought to you, my dear colleagues. Vladimir Seminovich Boyko, microphone, "Regions of Ukraine". Come on, talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I am not discussing it, but it is very simple that we will never get anything from the Ministry of Health. And the fact that this Act really violates all the businesses that work. I'm not discussing it, but please don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u29	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Since we had two bills, we considered them and discussed them. But Bill 4505-1 was removed from consideration by the authors. We have one bill left. Therefore, I am voting on the basis of the draft law on public health insurance, registration number 4505, authors Franczuk, Bogatirirov, Grigorovich. Please vote. [[16:38:09]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 8; "Regions of Ukraine" - 52; faction of Communists - 0; SDPU(0) - 39; Deminitives, "The People's Government" - 0; "Trust Ukraine" - 28; National Agrarian Party - 17; SPI - 0. Calm down, calm down. Block Timoshenko -0; Alliance -16; NDP -13; Centre -0; non-fractional -6. All nationals here, let's not be able to determine who's anti-national. The people will determine. A committee proposal. Hara, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u30	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a request for the committee to send a bill for re-reading. In general, it must be said that it is very strange to hear unjust, completely unjust and incorrect criticism of the law. Most importantly, today we have had a real step to decide to take a good step to address the health problems of Ukraine. And those who did not vote in favour of the bill continued to exacerbate the state of our health for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u31	Yeah, what's the committee's proposal for one more time. Now I'm going to put forward a proposal, one minute. Well, Pinzenic, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, this law cannot be referred to re-reading because the ideology of this law is wrong, it provides for social health insurance through a payroll tax. And we can't change that anymore. That's why there's a rule, the law's outlawed. We need to prepare a new law. And we're going to prepare this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to re-read Bill 4505 on mandatory national social health insurance. [[16:40:29]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 16, "Ukrainian Regions" - 54, Communists - 0, "Deminicatives" - 37, "The People's Government" - 0, "The Hard Ukraine" - 28, "The People's Agrarian Party - 18, "SPU - 0, "Timoshenko Block" - 0, "The Union" - 16, "NDP", "Industrials and Entrepreneurs - 14, "Centre" - 1, "Afterfraction - 5. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a brief discussion of the bills. The draft Law on State Debt Recognition in accordance with paragraphs 8 to 10 of the first part of article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act and the Mechanisms for Service and Recovery of Debt is announced for consideration. We have four bills. I ask the authors very briefly to explain their position. The national deputy of Ukraine, Taras Cnerwell, is invited to speak. Prepare the Voisha. Three minutes if you put in, you'll be fine, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, there's only one thing to say. At last we started to consider a question that is absolutely principled and socially meaningful, which affects huge numbers today of socially vulnerable citizens of ours and those who make real investments in the future, investment in knowledge, knowledge for students, knowledge for students. The 57 articles on social security and guarantees for education workers provide for their repayment by the Supreme Council’s decree in the past, where we have made clear that these obligations are owed to the State and that they are repaid accordingly at the expense of the State. As of today, a number of lawsuits have already begun to be returned to some of these debts. But the lawsuits were directed against the local education departments and automatically took away their current salary. And so today, there's a crisis where the debt returns actually block the payout. A year ago, 13 months ago, a bill was introduced that, unfortunately, had not yet been considered to reflect the following positions. First. To comply with the Supreme Council's previous decree, it is a state debt. And I have to point out that this is not in conflict with the State Debt Act, because there is an expanded formulation that allows for the inclusion of other provisions. There is a predicted indexation and service by the State of this debt to creditors, in this case to educators. There is a mechanism. A clearly defined mechanism for repaying this debt from the State budget and also provides for the possibility of returning to those local governments or on their own, or the court’s decision to compensate the educational community for part of that debt, because it is the duty of the State to comply with both the budget code and the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that it cannot be exercised by other authorities of those powers that are not imposed on them. These are delegated powers, and they should be delegated to them. I am very much asking for support from the four bills for the very reason that it has a clear set of mechanisms. The 21 articles of this bill also spelled out guarantees for all on return, described ways of returning, defined the very control and possibility of extending the terms that follow the Supreme Council rather than the Cabinet of Ministers, and allowed us to complete this process in the process of the restructuring process. And in closing, I'm asking for one more thing. We need to adopt this law not only in the first reading but also in general in this session, because otherwise the first January of the following year, according to the budget code, will not be able to receive the funds that would be returned to them, will be delayed for another year. This sector and the people working in it are particularly unprotected. Therefore, I ask you, by voting in favour of this bill, to further support the decision on mandatory completion for the second reading, its adoption at this session, and if the budget committee cannot guarantee it, then forward the materials to the Committee on Science and Education which could prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u35	Yes, thank you. Vojsz Vladimir Dmitrovic, please. Prepare Valery Assadchev. Please, it's Assadchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u36	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because there I report from the committee and report on the bill, I have a request to make one report at the end, yes. I think I'm going to save some time and explain the situation, because they're just interconnected, all the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u38	The honourable colleagues proposed for your consideration of the bill aim to resolve the problem of paying the payout to educational workers under article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. This question has long matured and needs an immediate solution. Some government officials have assured that there is no such thing as serious debt to education workers from the 57th article of Ukraine for education because there are judgments in favour of education workers. Thus, the court’s decisions recognize the existence of debt. In addition, this problem affects not only teachers, but also local budgets, because the resources for implementing article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act were not provided. And the execution of court rulings on debt is also on their shoulders. In doing so, it should be noted that the issue of debt to education workers is of a national scale and weight and requires legislative regulation. Our draft law is not a ghost that came up in the imagination of the united social Democrats, it's a response to the problems of the education community that they used to talk to us about in a number of meetings. In particular, the co-author of this bill, Tamara Proscuratov, who is a teacher herself, and does not know the situation in the education sector, held 567 meetings, where the main topic was the settlement of the issue of pay for the 57th article. Our bill, unlike others proposed to you on this subject, does not provide for excessive budgeting and is marked by realism and lack of population. We offer to acknowledge the debt of public debt to education workers, to restructure them, and to make payments from the real budget. These payments can be made over three or five years, allowing for real budget revenues. This is accepted by both the education staff and the educational professions that we agreed with in our bill. The main thing is to get the question out of place. We cannot continue to test people's trust, so I urge you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u39	Thank you, too. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please, your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u40	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, head of the Committee of Science and Education. We are with you today, honourable national deputies, in a very delicate position. There's the Education Act, which provides that teachers and science and teaching staff from 1997 and part of 1998 according to the Education Act, we have to pay, pay for internships, pay for treatment and pay for active work. For three years the government played with the law and did not stop, make no proposals, or pay for it. In 1998, we included even 500 million in 57 articles, but then the government of Valery Pavlovych Desert said, "We didn't understand where we're going with this 500 million." Today, more than four billion dollars have accumulated debts under these articles. Although, frankly, I want to tell you that this number might be a little bit smaller. Education workers from all over Ukraine gathered here today. They demanded that these debts be repaid. People came up with letters of disease and stuff like that, and they said, "Give us back the money." So this problem, the solution to this problem, is facing more than one million people today. And I think all of these four laws that are being proposed here today essentially solve this problem. But I'm afraid it's another law that's going to stop this bill again in the Budget Act. And I think today we have a political decision to make, regardless of where you're at, to say that we, starting this year, partly, and from now on, let's say, four years each of us gives this debt to the education community, and there will be no more debt. My law differs from that of others. I suggest -- this is where Valery Assadchev is going to criticize me, but this is a dialogue, not a criticism -- to add another $200 million from our National Reserve to our National Bank of Nutzbank and direct the repayment of debts. Today, a teacher cannot receive a lower standard of living after a college. We're with you today, like, sending our kids to school and we think they're okay. There's a hungry teacher. How could that be? So I'm going to take the bill and I can take the other one, but let's say that Chernobyl has a nice position on the indexation of this amount, about. Those interests are taken into account by the parents of the dead teachers. For example, Assadchev has normal positive options. So I propose to uphold any of these laws, such as Chernobyl or Assadchev or Nikolainka or Vojsya, and I must do so. And in the next year’s budget, pay utilities to rural teachers and index the average wage to the average industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u41	Thank you. Valérie Assadchev gives the floor to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u42	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Budget Committee, Our Ukraine. Dear friends! In principle, everyone who's talked about stopping this vacchanal and not paying social standards to teachers is absolutely right. And this is the position of the Budget Committee. And when Taras Crnovola's bill first started to come to us, then Proskuratov's bill, they're basically all right from the point of view of the strategy that we really have to give the teachers this money. But the thing is, there's also a budget system, and we wanted to put this idea into the language of the budget to make it realistic. realistically implement these requirements in article 57. To do that, I'd like to stop at the 57th article first. It's all mixed up in this 57th article. So let's say there are some guarantees here that are expressed in numbers. For example, seniority allowances: 10 years - 10 percent, 10 years - 20 percent. This can really be credit debt if it's not paid off. And there are these guarantees, let's say that they could have paid and could not have paid, let's say, one job salary for conscientious labor. It wasn't for all the teachers to be paid for their conscientious work, it was for someone who was conscientious, and it wasn't for someone who was conscientious. There's a difference. Because when you pay everything like in the budget, you have to make a very clear distinction. Next. We wanted this bill to really pass. If you're doing, let's say it's a sovereign debt, you have to actually make a budget deficit and take a loan. Will the government go for it? I don't know, I don't think he's gonna go. So it's better to go to the debt instrument. We've had cases like this before, you know, when we didn't pay teachers back in 1999 for a very long time, and it was a creditor, and we've been paying them for a year and a half. We offer the same mechanism, that is, recognition of its creditors ’ debt, and we propose that it be extinguished within five years. If we say we do, like Stanislaw, I will, but more friendly, criticise, you're going to get the gold money involved. You realize it's not going to work, and we're just going to make a brake to solve this problem. Why should we do that? We're taking the whole budget State actually and we're going to solve this problem. Now. Who should have this debt. I'm asking you to give me some time, because I'm from the committee, and I'm about to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u44	Of course, under the budget system, the debt should have the budget that pays the teacher, the corresponding local budget. But, of course, it's not his fault. So our law says that in order of regression this budget has an appropriate debt to it already in the State budget. The mechanism is very clear. Without this mechanism, it will also be difficult to implement, for the State Budget does not pay the teacher directly. This pays the appropriate local budget. What about the local budget that paid for this money? And so are the budgets. So it stopped, and they paid. By this law, which we propose, they may present a claim to the State and restore it to themselves in the order of regression. We're not touching 2004 because it's not real this year. Believe me, we have two more sessions here, two weeks to go, vacations and a new budget. Therefore, we have been proposing, since 2005, equal shares in five years to pay off this debt to teachers. As soon as we adopt this law, I again answer to Mr. Stanislaw, any suspension of this article again in the budget will immediately lead to debt. Thus, the mechanism is designed so that it is simply not convenient for the government to stop more of this article. It's just technologically written so that it can be implemented. And we're ready. It's to be signed by all the authors of the other bills. He is realistic in his execution. So we ask him to accept it in the first reading. I think we're going to do it very quickly, there's not that much, I think there's going to be work to do, and we're going to be able to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u45	Thank you. Please sit down, Valery Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. It's got a name tag on it. Please, two for, two for. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u46	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I am grateful to those who have been waiting for their debts since 1997. Someone is already retired, and sadly someone has not waited for the Kingdom to come to them in the heavens. In particular, my late mother, who was a physics and mathematics teacher all the time, said, "So when are you going to decide?".. She didn't wait. And so many people can't wait. Now my colleague Valery Assadchev. For the adoption of his bill, I'm in favour of the bill and Taras Blackwall, they don't contradict each other. And Nikolenka doesn't contradict. All three can be accepted. But I object to the fact that, from this high rostrum, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Azarov here at the time of the tax adoption, when he adopted the budget resolution for the following year, he said that we would not be financed for the following year, article 57. And you remember that well. This is the position of the government. Please tell me that I have accumulated 4 billion debts in front of our people who are most disadvantaged over teachers. The most powerful we have to support is the intelligence of the nation. A debt has been made, and we say it's a pity to take the gold of the currency. Or are we sorry, put the numbers together, today we don't pick here from this one billion dollars issue, and it's not even all Krivoriztal, and we solve all the questions all year round. Here's what we need to do, and we need to show both the teachers and us, and the government that doesn't exist today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, let's honor the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Such questions are being considered, whether Azarov is sitting there or Janukovic is sitting there. No, let Janukovich go to the third term, Azarov to the first term. But let them sit here and report why they fell. Ladies and gentlemen, what we're talking about, what we're talking about today, is that we don't have to pay teachers per month. And we pay the police, and we pay the army, and we pay the Security Service? I'm not going to pay them. But why do we pay one and not pay the other? What's more, others get 5 times less. You understand. What's the point? What's the point? And we say, we can't be unrealistic. It's realistic, let's make a political decision that it's our sovereign debt, how we pay it. And not 200 million dollars there needs a National Bank, but 800, please. And there are possibilities. And only then can we. But where will the money of the teachers go? They're going to go for food, clothes and everything, so they're going back to the budget. We have to make a political decision for all three projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u47	Thank you. "For" is what we have. Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u48	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Education in Kirovgradska, who was present at the Supreme Council today, expresses deep concern over the lack of funding for the sector provided for in the 2004 State Budget. For several years now, the education budget has been a survival budget. So 60 percent is salary, 25 percent is energy, 10 to 14 percent is child nutrition in PTU and boarding. For 12 years, the state has not been able to ensure the level of pay for education. Since 1997, large amounts of government-guaranteed payments have been accumulated, article 57. In Kirovgrad today, these debts amount to up to 70 million dollars, including 13 million dollars in the city of Kirovograd. More than 30 million are owed to rural teachers in the area. In many schools, teachers have been able to resolve the issue of court debt. In satisfying these claims, executive services are forced to block accounts in educational administrations that create additional social tensions. Besides, the level of education is the lowest. The teacher’s fees are constantly rising. For example, the teacher's medical examination today costs 153-200 bracelets, where the health service, using its rights, uses simply repressive measures to suspend the work of educational institutions. Over the past 12 years, teachers have not been given a square metre of housing. How can a young teacher cope with the initial wage, even with 235 bracelets? Did the state consider why more than 8,000 teachers are missing in just one area, including in rural schools — more than 5,000? Even though the school is provided by retired teachers, 30 to 50 percent of teachers work in schools because they don't live in cities for a small pension. At what cost should a teacher master new pedagogical technologies? That is how the state cares about the teacher! Although it is unfortunate that such a humiliating life is satisfying for an educated person. Why did not the teacher thus far realize that he had been put on his knees, that as a beggar, he was asking for money that had been earned? The teacher will not understand that there has never been such a savage and shameful disturbance in Soviet power. And so, no later than June 22nd, the bill that Nikolaynka passed should be voted on in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u49	Yes, John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u50	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this about? It is a matter of paying off the debt of the educated under article 57. Last week, I was in the Poltava region, and last Sunday, my colleagues and I went through the Chutovsky, Karlivsky, Novosanjarski, Masivsky, Kobilitsky regions. And we had a lot of meetings with teachers today. And the teacher complains very and very much about the authority that they have a very meager salary, that they have to do private farming, that they don't have time to conduct a normal educational process, and all because the authorities don't appreciate the work of a teacher who prepares for any nation today, for any state the future. Therefore, it is our duty, our sacred duty today, to get the teacher out of this poverty. Our sacred duty is to give people so much wages, to the educated, which will make them free to provide a normal educational process. We have some drafts. And naturally, we have to choose some of the best drafts today. And I would say that today's most realistic bill of four is that of the MPs Victor Yushchenko, Yuri Kostenko, Zagreva, Assadchev and other deputies. He is realistic today. There's a mechanism that's going to pay us off these debts. Sometimes they say we don't have any money. There's money in Ukraine today. It's not about money, it's about treating the teacher. And let's face it, the authorities have given up a teacher today, divided both urban and rural. And especially today, I have deprived a rural teacher. Therefore, we must make a political decision to honor the teacher’s work in order to repay these debts. If we do not repay our debt to our teachers, we will never get a good view of authority, never will we get the support of our own people. We should always keep in mind that if the State has created debts, it must cover them, for this is a matter of people’s trust in power. We know with you that today the authorities have separated themselves from the people, and they have separated so far that they do not see him, this nation. We know with you today that the people of today cannot control power, for this authority has fled from its people. So, dear friends, I urge you to support, any of these bills can be supported, but the best bill is the one that Victor Yushchenko, Yuri Kostenko, Boris Zagreva and other national MPs have submitted. Today, we are making a political decision with you that is backed up by financial resources. We have a shadow economy more than a legal economy. There are funds that will allow you to pay off your debt in full and raise your salary at least twice, but we need to be citizens to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u51	Yes, thank you. Mironenko, please, the Communist faction. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u52	Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! First, let us first remember when this debt appeared to education workers. We remember that it appeared right at the time of the Yushchenka Government, which initiated the suspension of the Education Act, and the debt then grew. We were then told that there was no money in the state to surf. But I would now like to recall that the annual faction of Communists at the reception of the State budget insists that funds be made to ensure that 57 articles are implemented. We're told, "No money in the state." I want to turn here to those present, to those who sit on the gas pipe, to the oil pipe who hold the trigger, you get money from what's built by the people. Please stop raising money for your own good! Well, I understand that this call won't come to them, they won't leave this ruby, they won't leave the pipeline, they won't leave the pipeline, they'll keep pumping people's money into their own pockets. In view of this, we must all conclude that only after the arrival of most communists in the Supreme Council will socialist supporters be made available in Gosbudget, will the budgetary industries be nationalized, as has been the case in our case, the Soviet example, Italy, France, Britain and other States of the world. Next. I would also like to remind the distinguished gentlemen that, in this case, the Communist faction is forced to compromise. We have insisted and insisted that the 57th article, and that the State has the money, be fully secured. But given that in the Supreme Council, it is those sitting on the pipe -- gas, oil -- who hold on to the electric truck, who won't vote, who won't support the Communist initiative. We are therefore prepared to compromise: we call for a vote in favour of this compromise bill, which provides restructuring, although in the long run, of debt to education workers. I call upon those to whom I have just addressed: remember at least who you have studied, give at least a small debt to education workers, remember that education cannot be developed in these circumstances, help education, remember that science cannot be developed, the economy cannot be developed without education. The Communist faction proposes to vote in favour of the proposal of the Sectoral Committee, the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order to register the bill, we will vote on the adoption as a basis. Dear colleagues, the first to vote is a project sponsored by national deputy Czarnovil and Steckov. This is a bill under number 3470 of the draft Law on State Debt Recognition in accordance with paragraphs 8 to 10 of the first part of article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act and the Mechanisms for Service and Recovery of Debt. Yes, there goes the vote. Please vote. [[17:10:22]] For 224 Yes, the following, dear colleagues. Project number 3613. The authors are the national deputies Vojs, Proskuratov and Šufric. This is a draft law on the restructuring of debt from pedagogical, academic and other educational staff, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. [[17:11:04]] For 237 Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Project accepted. But let's do it this way. Given the importance of this project, we will assign the committees responsible to work on it so that we can consider and finally make a decision on Tuesday. Let's give this protocol assignment, lady. No objections? It's a deal. What? By factions, please explain the factions. "Our Ukraine" -60, "Ukrainian Regions" - 55, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 39, Deminiciatives and People's Government - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 29, People's Agrarian Party - 21, SPI - 2, Block Timoshenko - 6, "Soyuz" - 16, NDP and industrialists - 5, "Centre" - 1, non-fractional - 3. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of the circulation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products has been announced for consideration. There are two drafts here, so the reporter for the first draft is Mokriyev Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please go to the rostrum. Deputy Head of State Tax Administration. Prepare Veretennikov. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The instability of the legislative base does not contribute to effective control by the State over the production and circulation of ethyl, cognac, and alcoholic beverages, and hinders the normal functioning of the alcohol and alcohol market. The purpose of the law is to improve the machinery of government regulation in the field of the production and circulation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. The current order only provides for a permit for the release of alcohol. Imperfectity in alcohol control leads to the fact that alcohol is not used purposefully. The draft law proposes further introduction in alcohol factories of a special alcohol excise regime, which, together with the applicable standards and the rules provided for by other draft legal acts, will ensure the creation of a comprehensive alcohol control system and its intended use. In particular, there has already been a procedure for transporting alcohol with mandatory prior information from the authorities of the State Tax Service in the presence of its representatives, the setting up of CDS leave orders, and the introduction of tax posts in alcohol factories. A bill has been put in place to increase the requirements for operators when they are licensed for production and wholesale, and retailing of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. It also provides for the cancellation of such licences in the event that they are broken by the licence holders. These measures will reduce the shadow sector of alcohol, which is estimated to be about 25 percent, resulting in an increase in the budget of some 200 million dollars. For the purpose of ensuring the fullness of the excise collection from excise products used in the manufacture of alcohol, the project provides a standard according to which subjects of entrepreneurial activity are obliged to provide financial guarantees for alcohol of ethyl non-dated, processed for other excise products. And it is essential that alcohol be removed from the alcohol plant of the underpriced producers that the authorities of the State Tax Service are allowed to do so at the place where the recipient of the alcohol is found. The application of guarantees provides that, pending the receipt of the entrepreneurship of alcohol intended for processing, such payers are obliged to provide the State Tax Office with a financial guarantee in the form of a financial bond that ensures that the payer is obliged to pay the sum of the excise congregation in accordance with the Ukrainian legislation. After counting the amount of the financial guarantee into the special account of the manufacturer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u55	How much time do you need? Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u56	It is essential that the liquor company of the underpriced producer be able to recover the information on the amount of the financial guarantee. The budget will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, the project is responsible for the falsification of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, storage, transportation, the implementation of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products without the stamps of the excise collection of the pattern set or with counterfeit brands. The adoption of the law will contribute to the timely payment of excise duty to the budget guaranteed for the delivery of alcohol in Ukraine’s territory and its intended use, create the principle of a new legal space for the legal activities of business operators, and promote the protection of the State’s interests in the manufacturing and circulation of alcohol and alcohol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u57	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, thank you, sit down, please. Victor Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the main purpose of the bill is the urgent need for clear and transparent regulation of the production and circulation of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. This is the kind of legislation that deals with some of the issues and this bill is aimed at. I would like to point out that it is not an alternative to Bill 5340, which was passed by the President of Ukraine. This project contains almost all the positions proposed by the President of the project. But this project is much broader than Project 5340, and it solves many more questions. What these changes are all about. One, that's the definition of terms. The bill introduces clear terms, such as the primary wine industry, wine, winemaking, and so forth. All these terms are consistent with the Institute of Wine and Vineyard and the Academy of Agriculture. The bill is directed against the shadow sector of the economy. You know that the shadow sector in the alcohol industry and in the tobacco industry is very, very large. And the third condition of the project is changes in excise legislation. The introduction of deficient excise duty rates will help to balance the economic interests and priorities of the State in the field of production and circulation of alcoholic beverages. For example, the existing excise duty rates on wine are leading to a reduction in production in Ukraine, which is today’s and an increase in the market value of similar imported beverages. Therefore, the project’s reduction in rates will allow for increased production by Ukrainian companies. The project already takes into account what the MPs, the MPs who were already involved in the project are the proposals of Kruglov's deputy, Noshchenka and Vaszuk. As far as tobacco is concerned. The bill of today, which we have on the 2004 state budget, all those relating to tobacco, are all set up. But it's just 2004. And when we have a new year, whether they set these standards or not. Then we need to generalize them. So what I'm saying is that the adoption of this law will allow us to create the right conditions for increased production and imports of alcoholic beverages, to ensure the implementation of a single state policy, to balance the economic interests and priorities of the state in the field of import and circulation of alcohol and tobacco. And I want you to support me, ask you to support this bill in the first reading. And then it can be harmonized with the Presidential Bill, and in the second reading, it can already be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u59	Do you have everyone? Thank you, then. Victor Alexanderovich completed his report. Zushko Vasil Petrovich, the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking, will present the committee’s position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, the Committee supported Presidential Bill 5340 and requests its support on first reading. I won't waste any time on this, you've heard the rapporteur's argument. The draft law of our colleague Veretennikov is in fact the rules that develop the bill submitted by the President under the Law on State Regulations and other laws relating to excise goods. In fact, 4000-1, 3004 voted in this room. We have removed, not us, but the Veretennikov bill, he has removed the disputed norms. And today, the Committee decided to support Bill 5340 and 5340-1, given that paragraph 3 and paragraph 5 of the Veretennikov Act were excluded. And then, on second reading, taking into account the bills passed by the Government and the President that they would submit to the People's Deputies, bring it into one law and adopt it on second reading. The Government has supported these two bills if we consider that we delete paragraph three of the Veretennikov Bill and paragraph five of the Veretennikov Bill. It is therefore proposed to vote on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u61	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss us? On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Respectful national deputies are certainly to be seen to be of the utmost importance. And the main thing is, in my opinion, that despite all the measures that seem to be being taken in the state today, it is estimated that between 30 percent and 40 percent of the alcohol market is in the shadows. We're seeing all over the TV channels, they're once holding one car with alcohol, and everything -- it turns out, the campaign's going on, the Security Service has stalled, the NBS has stalled, and that's all. We had to follow the path of the alcohol market and nine million bottles, nine million excise stamps. They received evidence that they had been hidden in Zitomir, that vodka, and nine million, appeared to be hidden. And thank God we were able to prove that fact. True, no one said anything about him, no TV show showed, because it would be necessary to show the law enforcement officers who were covering and covering for the business. You should show that the State Tax Administration said there were no violations. And now we're investigating this criminal case. I repeat, at the same time, nine million bottles. How can this be done?Oh, my God! Not even 10 cars. These are the quantities. This is one example of a shadow circle of the alcohol market. So the bill that the President of Ukraine introduced, in all my respect for the post he holds, to the fact that there were very distinguished vice-presidents of the Podpalov and Hadewicki Administration and the President's advisor and management heads there, he's going to lose a lot to the MP's bill, which he's going to lose. The Veretenikov project, which replaced the given project. And this bill, I think, can be supported by taking into account what has now been said by the committee, except for two articles. And in addition, we need to strengthen law enforcement and strengthen parliamentary control, because the prosecutor's supervision here, too, while suffering in this regard, I haven't seen any reaction to what we're exposing, we're showing. So it would seem that the Attorney General's office should be holding a press conference on this subject. No, they're running through Yulia Timoshenko, and here they don't see it because there's billions of them hiding in the shadows. That's why I'm in favour of adopting the MP's bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u63	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, will you be speaking or not? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u64	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the block of Viktor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine", Yavorowski and Jovkovsky. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, with this opportunity today, I want to thank you on behalf of the classics of Ukrainian literature -- Zagreb, Musketika, Dimarov and others -- for your courageous stand and for helping us break the fist that was squeezed around the National Writer Association. Thank you so much for this, for your courage and for your position, that we are a little more comfortable now. With regard to this bill, my dear colleagues, it seems that our Ukrainian state and our national idea today came together on a bottle of vodka. That gorilla boom that was on fire in our country, when, in fact, every colonist was still leaking his own vodka, I think this boom is going down in a little bit. I think it's a huge mistake that the state has completely let go of its monopoly on alcohol, alcohol, because we all remember when there was a giant empire recently around 25 percent of alcohol production, and in fact, it existed on that money. As a result, I feel that the first draft, a non-member, does not make a difference in today's situation. That's why I want to say that I personally support the bill of my colleague, the national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u65	John the Rabbit. Andrew School, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u66	Honorable National MPs. John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. It seems to me that the right position was here with the deputy Karmazin, who is talking about the adoption of the Verethennikov bill. Although I'm going to tell you frankly that each of these bills has a lot more work to do in order to really get the production of alcoholic beverages out of the shadows, in order to really put in place a real price mechanism that will make it possible to develop both the wine sector and many other things. Not a secret today that in Ukraine the production of alcoholic beverages is the basis for the development of the Mafia and for the development of corruption. And the desire to put order in this area, especially in price policy, is a good desire. But there are also great warnings. For example, it is proposed that the tax period be fixed by legislation rather than by law. What legislation is, it is very difficult to speak today. Therefore, it is very clear in this law that the periods of payment of taxes are established by law and laid down in this law. And otherwise, we're creating the ground for regulations again, which means, for volunteerism, we're giving officials a chance to warm their hands on this regulatory non-regulation. I also deny the meaning of the term "financial guarantee." This concept is not revealed in the bill, so we can't say anything concrete about it. What's behind it, again, we don't know. So once again we have to go to a very clear legal, I would say, expression of all the concepts that are in this law. Obviously, we're not going to be able to pick a better bill right now, it's going to fail, but it seems to me that we still need to consider voting in favour of the Veretennikov bill, working out well and starting to put order in this area. [[I'm probably thinking the same one.]] You and I all know how much trouble alcohol brings to the Ukrainian people today. Whole sections of the population are sung. They drink a lot in the country. They drink a lot in the city. All the children have come down to the drinking room. Not all children, sorry, but a good part of children. These homeless are also the same contingent that is decomposed by alcohol. So let us act decisively in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u67	Yes, please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u68	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, by the way, what I'd like to say is that, of course, the bills that the government is preparing, one day I always treat them with a certain degree of suspicion and frankly, and that's what I've treated as well. But what is positive is that I would like these laws to be unified into a single bill, for there is a certain benefit in government. It's rare, and I'll be honest about it. The excise warehouses that are offered are basically normal there, because the excise warehouse is wherever it is. From which only the removed product could and could be realized reduces the possibility of producing a gorilla’s surrogacy. Although, of course, it doesn't prevent it. Yes, to some extent it increases the authority of tax inspection, but let's face it. Well, it's not long before tax inspection is a means of pressure in the hands of the current government, because it still has to change, and the laws have to be written under. Not under certain circumstances, but under far and wide perspective. So I would like to see these two bills brought together. As for the MP, of course, the increase in the price of excise stamps has a positive effect on what? True, there are very cheap vodkas. How can they be raised? What a proportion to bet. When the excise stamp is more expensive, however, the budget will increase, in principle, without a direct increase in all alcoholic beverages. So I'd like to say that the usual thing to do for alcohol is to make and need, but it's also not worth turning into a product of luxury. And it seems to me that the Verethennikov project is well thought out in this regard. And that's why it was worth the support. But the greatest support, as I am, would be to unite these two bills into one. And a short trailer. Of course, we can talk a lot about what the population is singing about, that it is now using more alcohol than we would like. But it still uses less alcohol than our average neighbor, either in Poland or in Russia. That is why this is not the main problem. The main problem, I'm not afraid of tautonism, is the plight of the Ukrainian population, and the problem is that alcohol is increased and sleeping and underage. I mean, there's not much you can do here, but it's necessary to regulate the alcohol market because there's a lot of counterfeiting, huge amounts of counterfeiting. And when a person who buys a cheap vodka is poisoned by it, it is quite different from the one who sings there, because it can be used once and not always be poisoned. So here we have to put the biggest fuses, here we have to fight the abusers and those who profit from human death by producing the poison. And these cases are quite common. That's why I'm going to stress again. A certain prospect of a government bill is because excise warehouses will put a small but brake on counterfeited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u69	For reasons, please Kruglov Mikola Petrovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! I would like to say my opinion on these bills. If Bill 5340 doesn't give me any doubt, Bill 5340-1 doesn't help our farmers and winegrowers, it puts sticks in his wheels. That's the first one. Half of Bill 5341 needs to be transposed automatically into the draft Law on Wine and Grapes, which is in the Supreme Council. He has nothing to do with the issue of excise duties. On the other hand, over the course of a year, winemakers struggle to figure out why 0.92 bracelets per liter are half-dry, half-sweet wines. Today we're already offered 0.25. I asked the committee: "Who can justify economically, financially, why for the same technological process of getting dry, semi-dry wine should be paid three times today by the excise congregation?".. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the organization of the circulation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. In accordance with the discussion, I will put draft laws to the vote. The first to vote is a project number 5340, reported by the deputy head of the State Tax Administration. 5340 draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the organization of circulation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products as a basis. Please vote. [[17:35:54]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation is being announced. There is no reporter, a sick reporter, that draft law is passed on. We can't take two on the first reading, you can't, you can't. Dear colleagues, draft law number 4062 is being transposed, as the author of the bill has been asked to do so in connection with his illness. A draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax, registration number 5011, is being announced for consideration. [[on the sale of agricultural products]] Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. Please, Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies present. For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax, which stipulates that for taxpayers of added value for sale of agricultural products and processed products previously purchased or purchased, I stress this, in the physical axes that are not paid by this tax, the object of taxation is the difference between the price of purchase and the price of implementation set by such taxpayer. I would like to fill the national MPs that, in accordance with article 11, paragraph 1120 of the Law on Added Cost Tax, which was in effect until 1 January 2004, when a payer made sales taxes to persons who were not registered as paying taxes on agricultural products and processing products previously acquired by such payers in respect of natural persons who were also not paying for the added value of this tax, the subject of taxation was a commercial price. And we've changed that since January 1st. With the end of January 1, 2004, the operation of the specified standard for the sale of agricultural products and processed products previously purchased into the population, the object of taxation today is its current cost, its full cost, not its commercial valuation. That is, taxation is done on a general basis when there is no tax credit. This leads to an increase in production prices and can cause social tension. Therefore, the adoption of the bill will promote price stability, increase income and income of agricultural producers, prevent illegal activities from purchasing agricultural products and processing them into the population. The bill does not require additional budget costs. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill. The Committee on Finance and Banking supports the bill in its version, which is presented in exchange for the previously submitted one, which is to act upon the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supports the bill. So there is a proposal that this law was adopted in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u73	Thank you, Vasil Antonovich. Have a seat, please. Sergey Teryohin, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u74	Good evening, distinguished national deputies, honourable chairman. The committee fully supported the bill. In principle, it's a technical readjustment. Instead of the words "first January 2004" write the words "before the adoption of the Tax Code." And I'm sure the Tax Code will keep the same standard because it doesn't allow cumulative taxation in the purchase of agricultural products in the non-industrial sector in citizens. Therefore, our request to accept it as a whole and to start from the moment of acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, there is an insistence on the performance. Got it. Carmazine, please. Get ready for school. We're continuing our work. Turn on the microphone from the place, I'd like to save time, dear colleagues, from the place. We continue our work for 15 minutes. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u76	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the standard that is now supported by a member of our faction, Sergey Terrohin, before the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. When will that be? What the Constitution determines is that a legislative act can be adopted by the time a time comes. So let's figure this out somehow. Tell me, please, the Constitution determines what we have either from the moment of publication or from a date like this. Then let's do that and write. I propose that from the moment of adoption and publication, as recorded in the Constitution, write it down. That's the first one. The other one. I read, in this editorial, that before the tax code is adopted, in cases and so on. It's me who's yelling out of place right now. And it's been effective since the day it was published. So this is point two. Mr. Sergei, listen to me. Now I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, the tax code, its acceptance is blocked. You can see that now the value added tax has become the most corrupt tax. I'm going to tell you that the tax rates on the head of the district tax administration in serious cities have increased to 400 grand. That's what I'm talking about. That's considering there's such a corrupt tax. I'm asking you, let's do everything we can to get the tax code in place as soon as possible and the tax on the added value was cancelled as anti-national. And instead, let's put in a sales tax. 10 percent is absolutely normal, it will raise our agriculture and bring everyone out of tax pressure. And the change of Kravchenk to Jaroshenko alone will not change any situation in the state. It won't change! So I'm asking the President to listen to this too, maybe there are structures to report to him, so let them say that, Leonid Danilovich, such projects are long ago, let's take them. Thank you for your attention. This law can be adopted both in the first and in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u77	Andrew School, please. Turn on Andrew School's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u78	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to say, by agreeing with the previous speaker, and saying that we really need a tax code, because the code is a list of laws that really regulates a very complex and difficult area of activity. Because, in principle, what is taxes? That's the amount of money that the people pay on an agreement to maintain power. That's it. And when VAT exists here as a phenomenon, it doesn't go in principle along with the reconciliations that have taken place, let's say, between the producer of the product, between the buyer of the product and the state. That's why it's a waste of time. If the VAT is not removed, by then we'll have a fiscal and heavy and scary organ like the Tax Inspectorate. In principle, tax inspection is a parishioner who is intimidated by entrepreneurs who come into a nightmare and appear and redeem themselves from the tax inspectors' actions is extremely difficult, beyond what they already know the price of this period of time. Plus I'm not talking about how they're making official use of all this money by looking at it. It's only worth looking at the houses of tax inspection in every area. So once again I say, of course, the bill of support is worth it, but it's not worth it to push with the Tax Code. I don't know why he's being put away and why he's being put away. I would like to put it even before all these political reforms and everything else, because if this law is passed, there will be tremendous social tension, because entrepreneurs and taxpayers aren't that many, but merchants are enough, so we pay VAT for everyone who buys. Whatever we buy, we pay VAT. Why? And I'd really like to highlight that in my speech. And once again, I stress that it can be accepted, but it shouldn't be a reason, it's a list of bills, it shouldn't be a reason to delay the adoption of the Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since we have unity here, is it possible to put a committee proposal to the vote? I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? on the adoption in the first reading and as a whole as a bill of amendment to article 11 of the Law on Added Cost Tax on Agricultural Transactions. Registration number 5011. Please vote. [[17:46:13]] For 348 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on the increase in the amount of child welfare tax]] Reporters are Teryochin and Atroshenko. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much ask you to focus and quickly vote on the tax code that we cannot spend two and a half months in this room. The bill says that for every longtime family, social tax benefits are to be paid for each child, not as it is now written: for each family. So today there's discrimination against families that have more than three children because there's only one benefit: if you have three children or ten children, you get the same benefit. That's not true. And you know that our nation should encourage birth, including social tax benefits. So on behalf of the committee, I would ask for bill 5040 in the first, second, and final readings to extend this benefit to every child in the family. And the bill of MP Atroshenka 5040-1, which is very important in terms of expanding the benefits, primarily those who fought in the Great Homeland War, as well as simplifying the administration of the tax, is due to the fact that there are some observations by the Supreme Council's Scientific and Scientific Administration, to be adopted in the first reading. So once again, 5040, by children, by the social tax benefit of many-child families, take in the first and second readings, and in general, 5040-1 in the first one, so that we can look at it as a whole in two weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Atrocenko Vladislav Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u82	Vladislav Atroshenko, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The draft law on social tax benefits in Ukraine is designed to regulate the case of the inability to receive children with disabilities under 16 years of age. Thus, it is not possible for adults who support these children to receive social benefits under the current legislation. My bill actually refers to the deletion of the words "child with disabilities 1 and 2 groups" and simply "persons who support a child with disabilities." With regard to veterans, members of the fighting and those who worked in the rear, the current law still has a letter entitled "who received the corresponding national award." By removing these words, we will be able to receive this benefit, for nowhere is the interpretation of what appropriate national reward. Please support in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss us? Well, then, I will. It's written down. George Carmazin from the scene. I'd like to ask, my fellow Members, we have many more decisions to make, save time. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u84	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will draw your attention to the fact that these bills, although on the same issue, are not as alternative as the previous one, where the Presidential and Veretennikov Bill were. We haven't voted, so we haven't settled completely yet. This is a mistake, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. A mistake that's just methodological. I'm asking you to fix it. You always react to such things very quickly. Look, these aren't antagonistic and alternative bills. As for the Atroschchenka bill, it's very, very simple. In article 6.1.2 of the Ukrainian Law on Income Added to Individuals, he proposes to extend the application of tax benefits in general to all children with disabilities under 18 years of age. And that's absolutely right. Try to keep that child today, and where you will find the funds. And I would have asked for this law, despite what Terhochin said today from the committee, that there are no comments, there's nothing to make a note of. Now, as far as the bill of Sergei Teryochin is concerned. The bill proposes to amend article 6 and, in particular, paragraph 6.5. 1, 6.5 of these articles, and this bill is also aimed at correcting the situation that has arisen in connection with the acquisition on January 1st of this year of the Law on the Income Tax of Persons, and it concerns single mothers or single parents, caregiver, child. [[on taxation of the income of natural persons from the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as persons with disabilities, large families, single parents]] And that's why I'm asking this bill of Terhochin to be adopted in both the first and second readings. It emphasizes that they are not antagonistic. I'd like to ask you both to accept it in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u85	Thank you. John the Rabbit. Ivan Alexandrovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u86	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. As with the national MP Karmazin, these bills do not seem to be an alternative. And I think it would be better to discuss them separately. Then, indeed, it would be possible to have a normal discussion procedure. But once we have gone this way, we need to adopt both one and the other bills as a whole to solve this problem. The point is that National Deputy Sergei Terhochin proposes to clarify the order in which social tax benefits are applied. It is offered on a social tax basis for single parents, parents who support a child with disabilities or have three children or more children under the age of 18. The marginal amount of income is calculated by the number of children who receive such social benefits from their parents. Thus, if such changes are made to the Income Tax Bill, it would mean that the authorities actually support large families and actually support families with disabled children. With regard to the law passed by Atroczek, it is about extending the scope of application of the law to participants in hostilities during World War II. The law states that such social benefits are granted to those involved in hostilities during World War II or to those who at the time worked in the rear and have corresponding government marks. So here the key words are "have the corresponding state stamps." And Mr. Atroshenko proposes to delete these words and thus expand the scope of this benefit. So I suggest you accept these two bills and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u87	Thank you. Well, let's vote or someone else insists. Please, Novak, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u88	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. I believe that the authors of the draft laws that have been introduced today have raised an extremely important problem. Practically after the entry into force of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act, some categories of payers, especially members of multi-child families and caregivers of disabled children, have become more tax-discriminatory than they were before. In general, understanding the complexity of the situation, declaring their good intentions, the government and the President are doing nothing to improve the living conditions of these families. On the contrary, many families and families where children with disabilities are raised are being robbed in the care of the budget. Consider these figures: Today the state social assistance for a child with disabilities is about 80 dollars, and for a healthy child in a multi - child family, there is so little to talk about. How to ensure the full maintenance and rearing of a child in the family at these costs, with constant increases in food prices, medicines, clothing, and utilities. Instead of helping those who took on such a difficult and noble cause as raising and raising Ukraine’s future children, the State not only turned away from the problems of these families but simply transferred them to the shoulders of their families. And in doing so, it requires the payment of taxes from members of such families to the fullest extent. All of this is explained by the lack of funds for effective assistance. And neither the government nor the President can understand that, after a while, the funds may be there, only for whom will they be needed if the Ukrainians on our land become less and less? Assistance is needed for multi-child families and families with disabled children immediately. It's like we're in a vicious circle. The economic crisis, the loss of millions of people who have been rejected beyond the poverty of confidence in the future, the demoralisation of society is causing a deepening demographic crisis. The demographic crisis, in turn, slows Ukraine’s exit from the economic crisis, paralyses the will, physical and moral forces of the population. We need to take immediate concrete steps to get out of the situation. I understand very well that this law, if even adopted by one and the other, will not solve all the problems of multi-child families and families where children with disabilities are raised. But this is at least one concrete step toward solving them. And that's why I'm proposing to vote for these two projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, no insistence? Shall we put it to the vote? Yes, Terhochin, a clarification. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to emphasize that project 5040 and 5040-1 are not alternatives. These projects regulate different ways of taxing and different social groups. But in view of the fact that Project 5040 does not require additional budget spending, and 5040-1 needs such expenditure, it is requested that 5040 vote in general, as submitted to the Supreme Council, and 5040-1 vote in one detail, that it takes effect from the first January of the following year. And then it will be right, and it will be in line with the Ukrainian budget code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Project 5040 on first reading adoption and, as a whole, the bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of the Income of Persons. [[on the increase in the amount of child welfare tax]] Please vote. In the first reading and generally as a law. [[17:59:39]] For-286 Decision taken. I'm voting on draft 5040-1 of the draft Act amending the Law on the Income Tax of Individuals for adoption in the first reading and generally as a law specifying that this law takes effect on January 1, 2005. [[on social tax benefits]] Please vote. [[18:00:16]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets has offered to accept it as a whole, but to make it clear that since January 1, 2005, there has been additional expenditures from the budget. And I agreed to the project's proposal. Yes, the law was passed first and 5040, and 5040-1. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on land under real estate]] Is it Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich? Then please, Terjehohin Sergey. For two projects, give an estimate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u92	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking on 23 March has yet to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. [[on land under real estate]] The bill regulates the issue of the abolition of double taxation of land rents, the acceleration of the transfer of housing according to the Earth Code and the Housing Code, as well as the removal of artificial and excessive taxation of local government budgets and the violation of inter-budgetary transfers. In addition, the project provides for the establishment of a "Transitional Regulations" rule on tax-added value-added transactions for the supply and sale of housing. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus notes that the bill has no comments. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that Project 5218 be adopted as a basis for the first reading and in general, and that Bill 5189 of the People’s Deputies, Mathvienka Anatolia Sergiyovich, should not be voted on due to the fact that it is fully included in Bill 5218. And I can say this from myself: today's paradoxical situation is after the Constitutional Court's decision that land rent or land pay according to the law, so it's called, should be taxed on added value. Clearly, this is absolute nonsense, we have to correct it. That's the first question. The second question is housing. You know that many Ukrainian citizens have funded the construction of their homes, which, on January 1st of this year, according to the National Budget of Ukraine, submitted by this government and voted by you, the honourable national deputies, began to tax 20 percent of VAT. What to do with these people who have accumulated this money for many years and have invested in it is not clear. What to do with these companies is to take 20 percent of the rent for this apartment or room or something else to do is not clear either. The bill therefore corrects the disadvantages of the draft, the Budget Act, which was adopted, and the absolutely unverified decision of the Constitutional Court on double taxation of land in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this problem? None. But I'm going to put these projects in order. The first is the draft of the National Deputy of Matvienka, number 5189, the Law of Ukraine on Introduction, the draft Act of Ukraine on Amendments to Article Three of the Law on Value Added Tax. Based on the base. [[18:04:49]] For-68 Project not supported. I'll put it to a vote. A committee proposal. Say it again, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u94	The committee's proposal is to adopt Bill 5218 in the first reading and in general and put it into effect on January 1, 2004, I repeat, 2004. In order not to be taxed in the back of the citizens who have already financed their apartments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u95	Yeah, do you understand the offer? I am voting on the adoption in the first reading and as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on Added Costs in relation to Supply of Housing and Land. Registration number 5218.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u96	Please be supportive. [[18:06:00]] For 290
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u97	The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on the zero rate for PEK enterprises]] Litwin Vadim Valentinovich is a reporter, please. And get ready for Kaputin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, the bill has been drafted to address the three critical issues of VAT taxation, which are very important for companies in the oil and gas complex. The first problem is the legal exemption from VAT on natural gas imports into the customs territory of Ukraine according to external economic contracts. Another problem. This is the legislative establishment of a zero VAT rate for a transaction for the sale of imported natural gas imported under external economic contracts. And the third problem. This is the legislative establishment of a zero VAT rate for services related to the transport of natural gas. In 2000-2002, due to the cancellation of the zero tax on the added value of natural gas transactions imported into Ukraine by NAC Naftogaz, Ukraine was in fact placed under conditions under which its financial capacity was allowed either to execute international agreements and to secure Ukraine's natural gas needs or to fulfil its fiscal obligations at the same time. As a result, the tax burden has led to an increase in tax undernutrition, an increase in the deficit in capital investment, and a deterioration in the calculation with Turkmenistan for imported natural gas. Only in 2003 did the tax situation improve, primarily through the introduction of the State Budget Act to exempt VAT from imports of imported natural gas and a zero rate for transactions in the sale of imported natural gas. These tax rates were also introduced by the State Budget Act 2004. An analysis of the implementation of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" tax liabilities shows a steady trend towards increasing revenues from such enterprises. In 2003, NAC Naftogaz's current budget calculations were completed in full. Including an added tax of nearly 122 percent. In addition, the company reduced its tax deficit by 227 million dollars. The adoption of this law will not result in budget losses and allow NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's enterprises to prevent the diversion of circulation costs to pay VAT, to ensure that the gas transport system is inconvenient, inconvenient, and not to increase inequity on payments to the budget and to calculate for Turkmenistan's natural gas at the same time. This will allow us not to raise the price of gas. In view of the foregoing, I would like to support this bill as very important for the oil and gas complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u99	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Finance and Banking Committee, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which we are considering with you, has in fact been reflected in the State Budget Act for several years now. This State Budget Act for this year contains these standards in Article 3-5. These are the following rules, first of all, the exemption from the taxation of natural gas imports into Ukrainian customs territory in accordance with the external economic contracts made for the implementation of Ukraine's international treaties. Secondly, this is taxation of oil and gas transit services across Ukraine under Ukraine's international agreements with zero VAT. Thirdly, this is the application of a zero rate for natural gas sales operations in Ukrainian customs territory purchased under Ukraine's international treaties. In doing so, the sale of such gas to non-payments of VAT, including population and budgetary organizations, is made on a general basis. So this approach excludes the loss of the budget from the VAT coming. So the philosophy of this bill is that these norms, which we continue every year in the State Budget laws, are reflected in the stationary law that we could adopt with you. And so these norms would work in the rest. The Committee on Finance and Banking considered the issue and approved, supported the bill in this way. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law, which we are currently considering, which was amended by the first reading by the People’s Deputies of Lithuania on the basis of an exception to the standard for setting a zero rate for transport-related operations, exceeding natural gas, oil and oil. transit cargo through territory and. Ukraine is in line with foreign economic contracts made for the implementation of Ukraine’s international treaties. I mean, no other point. So we suggest, the committee proposes to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, let me put it to the vote on the basis we'll take it and then we'll figure it out. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Tax. [[on the zero rate and PEC enterprises]] Registration number 2305. [[6:11:37]] For 186 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Let the committee know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important bill. Maybe there aren't enough people in the room right now, so we probably didn't accept it, we didn't have enough votes. Let's re-read it so we can talk about it again and accept it or refuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u103	I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to re-read the draft bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Tax. [[on the zero rate for PEK enterprises]] Registration number 2305. [[18:12:28]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we haven't considered three more tax laws, they're large enough. That's one proposition. May I have your attention, Your Honor? The head of the Court of Auditors has also repeatedly addressed us with a view to adopting a draft decree on the establishment of territorial representations of the Court of Auditors. Well, one minute, calm down. The funding required for this is allocated, everything is. We just need to get a formalized document. It's our body to make it work effectively. So we need to vote on the inclusion in the order of the day, and then we need to take this decision. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision on the establishment of territorial representations of the Court of Auditors. Please vote. [[18:13:32]] For 311 We've put it into the agenda. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of Regional Representations of the Court of Auditors, registration number 5433. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. We must support the Supreme Council. [[6:14:02]] For 291 It's been decided. Dear colleagues. Please, Peter Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a bill of decree No. 5398. This is about the appeal of veterans of the organization of Ukrainian veterans to the recognition of the Year of Veterans next year in 2005. I'd like that very much. That'll do. It'll take a minute. This is a request to the President to announce the following year by the decree of the Rock of Veterans with a solution to the bloc of social problems. I'd like to put it into the agenda and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, let's not put any pressure on the political. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decision to call the 4th meeting of the Ukrainian veterans' organisation on the 2005 announcement of the Year of Veterans of Ukraine. Let's vote. Registration 5398. Please vote. [[18:15:25]] For 241 We're on. Now let's take this decision. Registration number 5398. I am voting on the adoption as a whole of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the call for the fourth meeting of the Ukrainian veterans’ organization to announce 2005 as a veteran in Ukraine. Please vote. [[18:16:00]] For 277 It's been decided. Teryohin's microphone. Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u106	Vladimir Mikhailovich, tax laws have been passed for two and a half months at the end of the day, usually not to be voted on. For six months now, we have not been able to correct the disadvantages that were accepted in the 2004 budget. That's why I have an offer. You know very well the rule of the budget code, that if we don't fully adopt the amendments to the laws that are in place today by 2 July next year, these inadequacies will be in effect. I have a proposition, first of all, for tomorrow all the things that haven't been voted on today, but which are very important, this is a VAT block, this is a revenue tax block, a citizen's income tax, excises put not back, but the first questions for the economy to get an incentive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m1.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three pending draft laws planned for today. We'll look at them tomorrow. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you for your fruitful work, everyone.
