ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. There were 294 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. By factions, please, who registered. “Our Ukraine” - 100, “Ukraine” - 2, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18 You sign up first and then you come to me with this statement. Soyuz - 17, One Ukraine - 14, Center - 16, NDP and SPT - 0, Deminiciates - 14, Postfaction - 14. Look who's registered. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies. David’s Ludmila Ivanovna, Kuzmenek Peter Pavlovich, Rajkov Boris Sergiyovich. Let us welcome them, wish them health and fruitful success. Dear colleagues, I declare that Democratic Initiatives are registered, Social Democrats are not registered. I can't give you a break. Log in first. Please listen to the announcement. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the People's Deputy of Vladimir Pavlovich was also elected. Calm down, please. Have them rewrite the application, have them rewrite the application. Calm down! The Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups decided on the schedule for the October 19-22 meetings. The list of issues that we need to discuss and make decisions, you have today. Let's move on to their schedule. Dear colleagues, there is a need to exchange motives. Please sign up, five minutes. Five minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yes, please, Red, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u3	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Victor Yushchenka’s block, the Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I don't think it suits the parliamentary majority of Kuchma, Yanukovich, to break the sessions of the Supreme Council now. All voters should know that now the rostrum is blocked by what is called a majority, which has already collapsed, and they would just like to paralyze the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, obviously to disrupt the electoral process, the peaceful flow of presidential elections. In the hall there are posters of provocative and lying content that stain the name of the national candidate. Under such conditions, the Supreme Council is forced to work. The electorate should know that the destructive forces that began in the country of arrest, detention, office riots, circulation arrests, the printing of slanderous postcards will never pass, and the victory of the truth will be won by national candidate Victor Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u5	Yes, Anatoly Domansky, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Gmiri Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u7	Sergey Gmira, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u8	Thank you. I don't understand what caused this blockade of the bleachers today. Maybe because you don't want to accept a budget that you don't really think is real? But there's one more thing I want to say. I was surprised at the gross intervention of the American Ambassador in the internal affairs of Ukraine. We are constantly trying to emphasize from all channels and representatives of the right opposition and the power channels so that there is no interference. Well, how about this: the Ambassador said the first phrase, "we do not interfere in the internal affairs of Ukraine" and the second phrase, "we are prepared to cooperate with any candidate, whether it's Yushchenko or it's Yanukovic." Two high-ranking candidates, and that's it. Where are the rest of the respected colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u9	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u10	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! Well, first of all, there is no so-called "parliamentary majority" in Parliament, and second of all, I wanted the Ukrainian people to hear the truth and have the right to make free and independent choices. And I would like to say to all Ukrainian citizens: Can you believe those who put a knife to your throat and wish you happiness, health, and prosperity? Just as they qualify for the actions of today’s authorities. The government should gain authority by its actions, not by these destructive intentions and concessions, which are being carried out today by the factions of the "Ukraine", the "SPDU" and others. Please don't stop us from working and don't stop us from making a conscious choice for the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u11	Shevchenko, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u12	I say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u13	Please, who's in there? Chewchenka, please. No, we're moving on. Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We see how the pro-presidential, pro-yanukovic factions today disgrace Parliament, disgrace Ukraine. Yesterday, Mr. Girinowski spoke in Ukraine, Vice-Speaker of the Russian State. They say, "Tell me who your friend is, and I'll tell you who you are." It is very good that Girinowski supports Yanukovic. We have to put the equation sign: "Gyrinski is equal to Yanukovic." And what's happening in the Supreme Council today is that the fact that the Presidential factions disgrace the Supreme Council is another testimony that criminals will not come to power -- criminals will sit in jail! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u15	Vasil Gavriluk, Centr Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that yesterday's Conciliation Board took place in a calm regime. None of the factions in Parliament had any serious comments about the work of the Supreme Council. And today, let us make it clear to ourselves that whoever wants to prevent the activities of the Supreme Council, whoever is trying to bring discord, division into the work of our parliamentary groups and factions, we are already seeing with you for a period of two years that this is not working. Why should we say one thing today, fighting for the title of candidate or President of Ukraine, and actually show something completely different in Parliament, that is, what we are demonstrating today, we are trying to disrupt the work of the Supreme Council? Please, let's work. The “Centre” MP insists on the normal work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I would like to reiterate that, according to the Rules, two factions may request a recess, and the chairman may grant them the right to speak, but the honourable colleagues, in the applications submitted, one faction has registered, the other is not registered at all. How can I give the right to speak? Let them write a statement from those who have registered. The word will be given. And now, dear fellows, we continue our work. Information on the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Paris session is being discussed. Informs the head of the Permanent Delegation, Oliynik Boris Ilchi. Please, Boris Illihu. You have 20 minutes, please. I want to say to the great leaders: raise your hand if you want a line. I'm going to say again, you've raised your motives, I've signed up. Now, please give me an order to eliminate the parliamentary majority secretariat because it doesn't exist. All of it. Please, I've already announced the speaker. I announced the speaker. Don't bother me. I've already announced the question. After considering the matter, take the matter. Please. I'd like to say again, dear colleagues. You're standing here, you're doing a script that you developed for you. And you were sent here as a foot soldier. Please, come on in. Calm down! If you do not respect the Supreme Council, you respect such a respectable man as Olyan Boris Illich. And be kind, please. Please, Boris Ilchi. I want to say again, it won't be possible to break up Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u18	Yes. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. From October 4 to 8, this year, a regular delegation of Ukraine was held in Strasbourg, with the participation of Michael Gladys, Sergey Head, Constantine Ževago, Alexander Karpova, Orestes Klimpus, Yuri Kostenka, Boris Olijnik, Anatolia Pisarenko, Anatolia Rahanski. Our delegation worked on all committees, political groups, not forgetting the culinary activity. Of the more than two dozen issues and problems that have been put into discussion, these include: the functioning of democratic institutions in Serbia and Montenegro; the implementation of a resolution on the functioning of democratic institutions in Azerbaijan; the participation of women in elections; the organisation of economic cooperation; the implementation of Armenian resolutions on compliance; global warming under the Kyoto Protocol; and new concepts of assessing democratic development, etc. On the first day of the plenary session, the order of the day of the session was approved, and the Assembly supported the Bureau's proposal to include in the agenda: a challenge from terrorism in the States, members of the Council of Europe, an urgent review and relations between Georgia and Russia. The report on the work of the bureau and the permanent committee published by Luke was also heard. Belgium, regarding the future presidential elections in Ukraine, noted that their organization did not comply with Europe’s standards and called for increased activity in monitoring the elections, a member of the Assembly. and Hanna Severinsen, who participated in the discussion of the report, touched on their recent visit to Ukraine. Severinsen called for an increase in the number of observers in the elections, stressing the particular importance of working outside Kiev. She thanked the Head of the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian Parliamentary Delegation for their fruitful cooperation and support of the Assembly observers. At the same time, according to Severinsen's assessment, Ukrainian media are clearly biased about opposition candidates, reminding them of what they call "darks" or some kind of instructions from the President's Administration. Finally, the Assembly called for a delegation of observers, a clear mandate, and stressed that the situation in Ukraine could be improved. I have no right to comment on Severinsen, but I would say that “counter sperm”. On the second day, the chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Norway, Jan Petersen, spoke. He focused on the problem of combating international terrorism, the Balkan situation and Russian-Georgian relations and so on. He announced the decision of the Committee of Ministers to hold the third summit of the Council of Europe in Warsaw from 16 to 17 May 2005 to determine the current state and prospects of the organization. The report on the functioning of democratic institutions in Serbia and Montenegro notes that the situation in these countries has improved markedly over the past four years, but the possibilities created by the victory and support of the people on October 5, 2000 have not been fully realized by the new leaders. Unfortunately, most of the problems still exist after four years, having a negative impact on the prospects for a transition to complete democracy and a way out of the economic crisis. The panellists largely agreed with the analysis of the situation and the findings of the presentations. Representatives of Hungary, in particular Neme and Ershi, drew the Assembly’s attention to the increasing impact of the rights of national minorities, such as the Hungarian population, the voivodship, and urged the authorities to investigate and apply decisive sanctions to the witnesses of ethnically motivated incidents. Although other information indicates that if misunderstandings do occur, they are more likely to be domestic. Then, the pedallings on ethnic soil tend to trigger disturbing memories of me personally with similar Serbian accusations of Albanian oppression, and preparations for the bombing of Kosovo began. The representative of Sweden, Marty, blamed what was happening in Serbia and Montenegro on the European Community, since promises to provide all the help had little to do with the promise. He wondered how the Serbian people could cooperate with the International Court of Justice in The Hague and carry out its decision under the pressure of a superstate that bombed his territory and did not itself recognize the jurisdiction of the same court over itself. A report by the functioning democratic institutions in Azerbaijan, Groz and Herhal, noted that despite progress in fulfilling their obligations, Azerbaijan still has many gaps in human rights legislation. Participants in the debate appreciated the recent release of a group of political prisoners and called for the continuation of this process until the total release of all persons. In his statement, Rahansky noted that Azerbaijan had generally fulfilled its obligations regarding the ratification of the European Convention, human rights and the reform of legislation in line with European standards. At the same time, he urged PARE to help the country solve Nagorny Karabakh’s problem. At today's session, the most intense were the extraordinary debates on the issue of "The Challenge of Terrorism" in the member states of the Council of Europe. Rapporteur from the Committee on Political Affairs, Constantine Kosachev, head of the Russian parliamentary delegation. The dictionary stressed that terrorists today are trying to put Europeans before the choice between security and democracy, between human life and freedom. In fact, it's a civilizational choice. So Europe needs to find an effective response to these challenges. Kosačov proposed to take immediate action and prepare and adopt a general convention within Europe to combat this scourge, clearly defining the concept of terrorism and terrorist acts. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights was in principle supportive of the position of the main political report, but it warned against violations of fundamental human rights during antiterrorist measures. Little by little, Litner noted that the press was free to report terrorist attacks. Socialist Luis Maria Depuych suggested that the debate should be postponed, based on the position of his political group: we are against militarization, we are against terrorist crimes, not war against terrorism. Depuich questioned the current definition of terrorism and terrorist acts. However, the Assembly strongly rejected the proposal made by the Socialist Group and voted in favour of the continued discussion of the report. "You can't confuse barbaric terrorism with legitimate repression of oppressors." - She stated to the Assembly's monitoring committee, Mrs. Durier, "Algeria was freed from French occupation legitimately." The French resistance against Hitler’s Germany was also legal. Even though the Nazis called him a terrorist. Rachansky, an oil man, took part in the discussion. Rahanski stressed that terrorism has specific reasons, trust in the UN has been undermined by Americans who have launched military actions without the Security Council’s prior agreement. It is then necessary to reform the UN as quickly as possible with a view to substantially enhancing its role in the maintenance of world security and the rule of law. As a result of the Assembly's discussion, the Assembly adopted resolutions and recommendations in which it reaffirmed its principle of a position to condemn any form of terrorist acts, regardless of where they were committed, why, purpose, methods and requirements imposed on terrorists. In particular, recommend intensifying the efforts of the States members of the R & D to create a single European legal space in the area of combating terrorism, to start preparing a general anti-terrorist convention, and to agree on a European-wide definition of terrorism and terrorist acts. I also took part in the discussion, and after expressing a personal point of view and letting you hear it out of the third hand, I will allow you to draw a small one. Resolutions and recommendations would greatly win to make it clear that aggression in Kosovo and Iraq is a tragic mistake in the U.S. leadership, paid for by blood and the lives of the innocent. Recognizing this bitter fact would be an honor to the superstate. And not only to honor, but also to her own safety. Because you can't build your well-being on the fabrication of Islam with Christianity, on the sanitization of the Serbs first, and now Muslims. A millennium of history shows that the provocation of Slavophobia has always been a disaster for its witnesses. Then, for the common and own good of this superstate, it is necessary to find the strength to overcome the blind hatred imposed by the mondealists against the nations that have not recognized and never acknowledge any one world villain. ” The quote is complete. PARJE discussed the organization of economic cooperation and development and the world economy. Rahanski, who generally supported the report, noted that OAU should play a leading role not only in economic growth but also in environmental conservation. He had an interview with the head of the Parliament of Serbia and Montenegro, the head of the Parliamentary delegation to Paris with Oran Shami. During the meeting, the parties exchanged thoughts, particularly about the situation in Kosovo. Arrangements have been reached starting with the next session to hold consultations between parliamentary delegations with a view to coordinating positions. On October 7th, the Assembly considered three reports on the Chechen issue: the political situation in Chechnya, measures to strengthen democratic stability in accordance with RE standards, human rights in Chechnya and the humanitarian situation of Chechen refugees. Fear condemned the extreme acts of violence that take place in Chechnya and, unfortunately, turned into the main shaping factor of the entire generation. The ongoing suffering of Chechens, caused by conflict, requires concerted action by local, regional, and federal authorities to improve the situation, as well as the assistance of the international community, including the member states of the R.E. In his view, the absence of elements of the rule of law in Chechnya hinders the development of civil and democratic Chechnya society. Bindich expressed concern about the numerous human rights violations in Chechnya, the reporter said that the human rights situation remained catastrophic in order to get out of that position from Russia's highest political level, and that all had to be signaled that human rights in Chechnya were respected. And Winsky pointed to the excruciating living conditions of many Chechens, the absence of normal housing, the destroyed infrastructure of cities, the lack of educational and social facilities. At the same time, he gave examples of positive dynamics. The Assembly's report concluded that it had adopted three resolutions and two recommendations, which, inter alia, called on Russia to implement or plan anti-terrorist measures to adhere to human rights and humanitarian rights norms, to strengthen the fight against corruption and crime, to take additional measures to prevent the climate of impunity, to create a parliamentary commission to investigate violations of the law in Chechnya by various branches of government, to strengthen security in the region and to protect human rights, to intensify efforts aimed at reconstruction and humanitarian assistance, and to subordinate them to more effective and transparent accountability and control. At the initiative of the Georgian parliamentary delegation, the Assembly considered the current state of the Russian-Georgian relationship. Presenting this official position, the head of Georgia's Parliament, Burjanadez, urged Russia to stop economic aid to self-declared republics, but pointed out that the purpose of the discussion was not to bring Russia's accusations to justice, but to try to regulate the Georgian-Russians to refer to the international community. According to Russia, the Georgian side should seek a solution, not in Strasbourg, but in Georgia itself with the leaders of the republics, ensuring the rights of national minorities and improving their economic status. Russia, for its part, is interested in Georgia’s integrity and stability and is always open to dialogue. The full, detailed report, the honorary colleagues, we present in due course for an examination of the entire constituency. I will celebrate the constructive work of the workers of our representation in Strasbourg, headed by Shevchuk. Our administrators, among other things, deserve to be thanked by the alphabet of Andrew Crownichuk, Viacheslav Lakshin, Igor Piljav. After all, these are proposals. According to informal information, the Ukrainian question may arise in the order of the January 2005 session as a result of the presidential elections in Ukraine. The monitoring committee report on Ukraine will also be prepared by presidential elections in our country and will likely include analysis and evaluation not only of Ukraine’s commitments but also of its obligations under the statute of the Council of Europe. In view of the above, please make every effort by January of the following year to fulfil the remaining commitments made by Ukraine in joining the Council of Europe. And once again, honourable colleagues, thanks to all of you, I will say that we need to get our military out of Iraq as soon as possible, because this has gone very deep into the conflict between civilizations. Thank you for your attention and many summers all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u19	You're right not to tell me, I know my rights very well. I sincerely thank Boris Illice for the information. Dear colleagues, we accept it as a guide to action. A draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian people is being announced for consideration. May I have your attention, please? We need to include that in the agenda. That's why I'm voting. Who's in charge of including questions? Registration number 6264 is the draft of the Order "To turn the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian people" into the agenda. Please vote. [[10:31:38]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 59, SDPU - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian - 18, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, Union - 1, "One Ukraine" - 0, Center - 16, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 6, "Democratic Initiatives - 0, beyond fractional - 10. Dear colleagues, we discussed this Address at the meeting of the Temporary Special Commission yesterday. It was unanimously supported. The text is given to you. In preparing the draft Appeal, we came out of the fact that we needed to carry out the mission of the Supreme Council, to address the Ukrainian people, and to urge voters to come to the polls and make a conscious choice. We came out of the need to be positive, not to talk about problems, weaknesses that are always in any election campaign. So, dear colleagues, there's an offer for us to approve this project right now, so that we don't get involved in the addition, there's nothing we can do. I'm asking you to get out of the main motives. That's why I'm voting for the whole draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian people, registration number 6264. Please vote. [[10:33:22]] For 249 It's been decided. Thank you. A draft Ukrainian Administrative Procedural Code is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5462]] This is a rule: for the report - 10 minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter - 5 minutes, for the co-report - 7 minutes, for the answer to the question to the co-rapporteur - 5 minutes, for the discussion and decision-making - 15 minutes. Just 42 minutes. Is there no objection? Please report. Out of procedure, please, Konovaluk. One minute, let the reporter Lavrinovich prepare. That's where you'll report from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! We have always insisted on the constructive work of the Supreme Council. We believe that the position from which factions now demand recesses and the "Regions of Ukraine" may have been the first to make such a request in two years is our right to interpret the Rules of the Supreme Council. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. Our faction insists that these factions have in common, six factions, more than 180 people's deputies. Allow us to announce a break, and so that we can in half an hour make those conditions, those references that we will continue to work constructively with in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Once again, I want to explain to my distinguished colleagues. The point is that if the MP is not registered, he does not take part in the proceedings of the Supreme Council. I want my attention again. You listen. I've been listening to you. Thus, the honourable colleagues turned to two factions: the faction "Democratic Initiatives" and the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The faction of Democratic Initiatives has registered, and I said so. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party at the time of the registration was "0". [[united]] I mean, there's no reason. I would suggest that you rewrite the application from others who have registered, and it will be done. You want to prove what you think will happen? It's going to be like the rules say. And I'm asking Konovaluka to study the Rules. Once again, the Supreme Council will not be hanged. Out of procedure, please. Calm down, we're already in the process of dealing with the issue, after considering the matter. Please! I want to say that once the issue has been discussed, once the issue has been resolved, there may be a suspension of the rules being announced. Three minutes out of procedure. Please sign up. Yes, Lucenko Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! We are all now witnessing how the factions of most people get used to the status of opposition and are very nervous about it. Of course, it is not convenient when you want to do something, but there are fewer votes. We socialists are looking forward to seeing them get used to the militia ring that they have unleashed on the opposition in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u23	Yes, please, Kirilenko. I'd like to ask once again, fellow officials, not to accuse me of giving one, but I'm asking that the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance be highlighted on the board, because they then carry the transcripts, but they don't carry the list of national deputies who signed up for the performance. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Look at the board, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u24	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Victor Yushchenka’s block, the Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I want to report again that the work of the Supreme Council continues to be blocked, because some of the factions in the majority are trying to take away our work. Apparently, they want to publish some statements, for example, about how they put the explosives in the Time Company, obviously, they want to tell the Ukrainian people about how last night and the other night and the day, students were detained at all the district centers, and there was some sort of criminal case going on, and they obviously want to tell us where the other lies and provocations against candidate Yuschenk are kept, they obviously want to talk about what they are for honest elections, and also when they're released from the youth protest. On our part, we want to say that this provocation will not pass, and we will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u25	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies and you, as Chairman of the Election Monitoring Commission, to the publication in the Business Capital of the unprecedented material, where America, no country has been so involved in the internal affairs of Ukraine as here. I'm quoting you. The Order, America, is ordered to dispel us, especially the American Ministry of Justice, is ordered to prohibit the entry into the territory of the United States of America of all senior officials of Ukraine, including their trusted persons, spouses and minors. It is the duty of Minfin to identify and confiscate the personal property and bank accounts of those persons. In addition to the project approved by the Senator, there is unprecedented pressure on the public apparatus as a whole. It's just that we have to somehow react to what it's not, it's pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u27	Mikola Karnauh, the last speaker, please, of those who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people. Neither America, Russia, nor the criminal oligarchy clans will influence the informed choice of the Ukrainian people because the Ukrainian people made their choice in 1991: to build an independent democratic rule of law. Our people deserve a decent life. Therefore, no attempt will be made to disrupt the work of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council works and works constructively. So once again I ask representatives of the so-called mythical majority not to sabotage the work, the Colonians not to wave their hands, but to sit and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, Your Honor? A review of the Ukrainian Administrative Code of Procedure was announced, and at the same time a new application is now under way for a suspension of the Union's and Ukraine's parliamentary groups. After we consider the matter, we will announce a recess. Since it is already in line with the Rules when the matter is being considered, consideration of the matter cannot be interrupted. I'm acting on the Rules. We agreed to consider Bill 5462. Reporter Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please. Please report from the location, as they do not allow you to approach the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. For the purpose of drafting the draft code, there is a regulation at the legislative level of a multimanite procedural relationship in the administrative activities of executive authorities, local authorities, and their officials. In Ukraine’s administrative legislation, the procedural part is the least developed. Therefore, it is extremely important to put in place rational and democratic administrative procedures, particularly in the area of administrative or administrative services. The subject of the Code is the legal relationship between the activities of executive authorities and local authorities, their officials, and issues related to the implementation and protection of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of natural and legal persons, including the provision of administrative services. After the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, most procedural relations in the system of executive bodies are governed by regulations. Some are partially adjusted and some are not settled at all. Human-authority relations are regulated only by the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act. But they are not fully regulated, and there is a legal gap with regard to the recourse of legal persons to protect the rights that have been violated today. The Ukrainian law "On turning citizens" regulates the implementation by Ukrainian citizens of the Ukrainian Constitution of the right to make public authorities, to unify citizens according to their statutes of proposal to improve their activities, to point out shortcomings in their work to accuse officials of public and public bodies. With the adoption of the Code, the Law on Citizens’ Appeal should be reviewed. Thus, when referring to the relationship between the Ukrainian Law on Citizens’ Appeal and the proposed Code, the law will regulate the implementation of article 40 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the right to address individual or collective written appeals or to personally the authorities of the State, the authorities of the local authorities and the officials and officials of these bodies, who are obliged to consider appeals and to give a reasonable answer in the time frame established by law. And the code is designed to implement article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which authorities and local authorities are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The first articles of the draft Code deal with the definition of the concepts used in the Code, the regulation of the procedure for calculating the terms of reference, the handling of administrative matters and the compensation of administrative costs, the regulation of the organization and implementation of such implementations, and the determination of their types and stages of implementation. A separate section of the draft code sets out the basic requirements for administrative implementation, the procedure for preparing for administrative review, the responsibility of the authorized subject, the requirements for adoption, the formulation and referral of the administrative decision. Special features of the administrative implementation of the application, of the complaint and of the initiative of the authorized entity are a section devoted to each type of administrative implementation that provides grounds for its initiation, the composition of the participants in the administrative implementation, the decision-making process, and so on. It is suggested that the form and content of the application and the complaint be clearly defined, the order of their registration and consideration, as well as the order of the decision taken on the basis of the outcome of the examination of the application or the complaint. Relations regarding the provision of administrative services under the Code will be regulated in part of the procedures for granting them by the Code and other laws governing relations, such as the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities, and the general procedure for obtaining licences is governed by the general order of the licensees of the holders. The Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons regulates in detail the procedure for the registration of economic operators. Regarding the legislative arrangements for the provision of administrative services, it should be noted that the domestic legal science is the only approach to understanding the concept of administrative services or services. The activities have not yet been produced. Individual legal representatives question the very possibility of using a service category for the activities of the authorities. At the same time, it should be noted that the "service" category is anchored in the concept of administrative reform in Ukraine, which is approved after the work of the State Commission. The term "government services" is also used in the positions of the approved concept in parallel with the term "government services", but there is no distinction between these concepts in the concept itself, so the code uses only one term "government services." The consideration of the need to settle administrative services makes it clear that these relations should be clearly and strictly regulated by law in accordance with article 19 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Given that it is difficult to harmonize the regulation of services in the field of services, such as education, medicine, culture, housing and utility, it is necessary to deal with procedural issues concerning the provision of administrative services, and special individual laws may establish the characteristics of administrative management in certain types of business, the specificities of the provision of administrative services, the authorization of the relevant authorities to deal with specific issues, the list of documents to be submitted, the terms of reference, other issues. Ordering the procedure for the prosecution of a decision, action or omission of the authority, by code, is "administrative follow-up of a complaint", a clear definition of a circle of entities authorized to deal with complaints, an update of the administrative complaint institution, and a rational combination of administrative and judicial mechanisms for the protection of violated rights. A separate chapter of the draft code defines the characteristics of the administration of the executive body, the local self - government body, their officials, which begins with the adoption of public authorities, the local self - administration of decisions that may affect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of individual individuals or legal persons, as well as the exercise of supervisory powers over administrative conduct. The last section of the draft code contains general questions about the responsibilities of the participants in administrative conduct. The draft code also takes into account the individual comments and proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In the drafting of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Procedure, the authors took advantage of the gains and modern administrative science and offered a new perspective on the social appointment of the basic administrative law institutions in Ukraine. The adoption of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Procedure will allow, at a legislative level, a multi-manial processual relationship in the administration of the State, which must be directed towards the establishment and protection of human and civil rights and freedoms, and will contribute to limiting the manifestations of bureaucratic and arbitrary behaviour by public officials. I ask for the support of the Ukrainian Government's draft Administrative Procedure Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Minister of Justice. Please, five minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhail Kosov, please. Then Rudzkowski. Your question. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u32	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, even in the context of what you have just reported to us, very many of the legal norms of this code, well, in fact they are repeating the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and the Civil Procedure Code, and other normative documents that we already have. Doesn't it seem to you that it might add extra, so to say, parallelism, so to speak, to the legislative base that exists now in Ukraine, and even recent events show that our legal organs are the first, most brutal, most cynical violators of the legislation that already exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u33	Dear Michael Vasilovich. I want to say that this draft code has in no way any rule that could duplicate the Criminal Code, as you said, is a completely different area of law and it's not about law enforcement at all, it's about the administrative activity of all executive organs and local self-government. ??? that work in every district, city that works at the district level or at the level of the state. Hence, there is no problem of duplication or parallelism at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u34	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u35	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Indeed, adopting appropriate changes will bring citizens and authorities closer together, provide a real, as it were, solution to the urgent problems of citizens. But I'm surprised, as with the people's deputy, that most of the government's president's representatives block the work of the Supreme Council and prevent such important laws from being passed to the people. It is they, as it were, who provoke the state of emergency by such unconstructive actions. The situation in Parliament is turned to presidential elections by the majority. And they're the first to give false ratings, then block the work of the Supreme Council, but candidates who really stand up for the position of people like Alexander Alexander Moroz other candidates. It's not possible for people who are facing social problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u36	That question was or wish was simple, I understand. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u37	The People's Agrarian Party faction has repeatedly stated the need to address the problems that our electorates face in solving any issue in solving any issues in the local executive or self-government authorities. The bill under consideration should address these issues. However, given the scientific expertise's conclusions, its adoption is even more confusing for our voters to find a fair solution. So don't you think, given the scientific experts' comments. And they're on page six, and the bill would have to be seriously redrafted? We agrarians are ready to accept it, but if all its shortcomings are removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u39	I would like to see firm conclusions on the shortcomings made after careful committee work. And in my presentation, when I presented the project, I said that much of the comments and suggestions that were made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority are already included in this text that you are currently looking at. And there is no doubt that there is room for improvement when preparing for the second reading according to the proposals made by the legislators. Now, one minute. Yes. Seminoga. None. Razwadowski, the "One Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter! Articles 38, 39 contain a provision regarding the so - called simplified procedure for dealing with matters. However, it is not clear from the project what is involved in this simplified procedure? Is there a need for a decision to violate administrative implementation in such an order of action? What is the simplified procedure for dealing with a case, and what are the terms of the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u41	For periods, they are defined in the first articles of this codex. And the simplified procedure applies only to a separate category, which is also defined in other articles of the Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u42	Yes. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. The chairman of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, has the floor for the report. 7 minutes for the report and 5 minutes for the question. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u43	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy at its meeting on 22 September 2004 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Administrative Code of Procedure, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The project proposes the establishment of a procedure for the consideration of executive authorities and local self - government, as well as for officials on issues related to the implementation and protection of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of individuals and legal persons. The purpose of the bill is to regulate procedural relations at the legislative level of government activity. You have just heard the report of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. I'm completely dividing all of his positive points about which he said, and I want to say on behalf of the committee that it should be based on this code that the legal basis of the legislative level should be established for regulating relations between the executive authorities and the natural and legal persons when they exercise their constitutional right to appeal, as provided for in article 40 of the Constitution. It is precisely the introduction of this project that corresponds to the general constitutional principle of the rule of law in the State and the obligation of the authorities and local authorities, their officials to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, as defined in article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. We also have a reference to this codex. But I'd rather call them committee proposals. The Committee has also carefully studied the proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the proposals made by the Supreme Court of Ukraine at the signing of Mr. Philipchuk's Deputy Chief Justice, for which we are also extremely grateful. And the Supreme Court also feels that this bill deserves attention, but some articles need editorial work. I would like to draw attention to the positive points that are in this code that article 6 provides for the fundamental principles of the rule of law, ensuring the primacy of human rights and freedoms and of citizens, justice and humanity in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This is exactly what every Ukrainian citizen lacks in today’s society. Another novelty in this code, which is certainly worthy of support, is the presumption of the rightfulness of the actions and requirements of the subject of the appeal and of the interested person, the recognition of the requirements of the subject of the appeal and of the interested person as legitimate, until otherwise proven by the outcome of the review and the decision of the administrative case. The basic principle is also equality before the law, the absence of any advantages of a participant in administrative implementation before another, the legality, the exercise of authorization by the subject of procedural action and the decision-making solely on the basis of the powers and the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, as well as the Code. Finally, publicity in publicity, ensuring, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the right of the subject to request and interested person to receive information, including with regard to administrative matters, including knowledge of materials that do not contain State secrets or other protected information. The principles also include completeness, objectivity and impartiality, ethics in relations, operationality and accessibility, the free administration of the subject of appeal and of the person concerned and the subject of control, that is, ensuring systematic monitoring of compliance with the established procedure and handling of the administrative matter. And we think it's very important. According to the law, the subject of the code is a natural citizen of Ukraine. a person without citizenship who has full civilian capacity. A legal person, including a foreign person, is endowed with civil capacity and efficiency. And the branches of representation of the department and other separate divisions created by the established laws of order that do not have the status of a legal person and act on the basis of their regulations. I would have been unobjective if I had not reported to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a thought that had matured on the street of the U.S. Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine made comments and suggestions. In particular, it recognizes that, in accordance with article 124 of the Constitution of Justice in Ukraine, courts are the only ones involved, and that the delegation of the functions of the courts and the addition of these functions to other bodies or officials are not permitted. In spite of everything in the project, the Attorney General’s Office considers that it is proposed that the authorized entity of the executive branch, the local self - government, be empowered by the authorities of the State. I would like to deny the first Deputy Attorney General Kudriavtsev, because he is also denied by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which says that there is no violation of the rights of the judiciary, he is denied by the Code itself, the authors themselves. And I would like to thank you from this high rostrum for the drafting of the Administrative Code of the authors of Avaryanov Vadim Borisovich, Andrijko Olga Fedorovna, Bityak Jury Prokopić, Hare Anatoly Pavlovich, Zagorul Olen Anatoliyevna, Koliuško Igor Borisovich, Kurbanov Fatima Hasoltovna and Marcenka Boris Ivanovic, and Semorkina Olen Mikolayevna, who have done much to make this code acceptable. So I think the committee made the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u44	Questions, respectable colleagues, to a coconspirator. Five minutes, please sign in. Give me the names of the national deputies on the sign-up board. George Manchulenko, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u45	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, there is no doubt that the Administrative Procedure Code is one of the important bills that will build the legal framework of our state. But the situation in which Parliament is now in a situation where factions of the parliamentary majority, which are virtually non-existent, block work and consider such an important issue, places some emphasis on the future quality of this document. How do you look at going back to the question of the draft Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Code after the conclusion of the presidential electoral campaign, so that it could be deep, essentially dealt with, and here in the session room make a balanced decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. You know, the adoption of this code is already late because our citizens' rights are being brutally violated today. In fact, in many regions there are elements of the state of emergency, let's call things our names. When the 72 buses that went from Berdjansk to Zaporozhye were removed yesterday, the license plates were removed, so as not to allow a meeting with the President. With President Yushchenk's candidate, it's an element of state of emergency. When Odessa also refused to allow buses for a young student’s evening and 300 young people took care of the police at night, it is said that the law should be passed now and that the implementation of the Constitution should now be monitored. I also refer to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin: in Ukraine there are elements of a state of emergency that needs to be responded to!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u47	Yes, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u48	Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u49	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u50	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleague Yuri Anatolyovich! We had a recent Soviet Ukraine, and the country's socialist. Now we have Ukraine bourgeois-Parliamentary, and Mother's Capitalist. Tell me, from your point of view, the lawyer and the lawyer, what is the difference between this code, the administrative procedure, Ukraine's Soviet and socialist and Ukraine's bourgeois-parliamentary and capitalist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u51	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Solomon, I would like to say that I love this country as much as you don't call it today. She's under a lot of pressure today, you can see that, but we still have to do everything we can to get her out of crime. And what difference does it make? This is because the criminality was in prison at the time, and at the time, it gave its commands to the law enforcement authorities. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs is no longer in charge. That's clear. I contacted the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and I know that. When buses were not missed, when citizens were restricted to the right of movement, to express their opinion, that is, to impose prohibitions on constitutional law. And ours will be different when, after the victory of the Yushchenk, all rights will be respected, as provided for in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u53	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u54	Nikolayenko, Ukrainian Socialist Party, Socialist faction. Dear Jury Anatolyovich, I receive thousands of letters from not only my district, but from all of Ukraine, as head of the committee of tens, hundreds, thousands of letters, where people say to refer today to the administrative authorities, to the courts, to the militia of a simple man, well, in vain. As long as you're not, the receipt's coming. The D.A.'s office gives a write-off: everything is decided by the court. Militia: Everything is decided by the court. A simple man goes to court, and in court he is footballed. And over the years, two or three years later, cases are dealt with, from one court to another. And the second. I'd like to ask you. The adoption of this new draft of the Administrative Code will have what effect on stopping this train in order to protect a person? Although, frankly, I know that if Ukrainians don't believe false ratings, they will support Alexander Frost, it will be decided by the machine: it will be honor and truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u55	Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u56	Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, I'll tell you that, in a word, bureaucracy will definitely suffer defeat because it will have to report everything, and it will be controlled. This is already the control of bureaucracy from the point of view of local authorities, executive authorities. As far as the courts are concerned, unfortunately this draft issue will not be resolved. I'm going to the Kiev City Court of Appeal on "Silly News" as I went to work, at least on Friday, I went there yesterday, I'm called there tomorrow. Because after the 21-number message, and it will only be, you know, Thursday, after that Medvedchuk called the head of the court and gave instructions to consider earlier. Being dependent on him, the head of the court gives orders to judges and judges who are forced to follow orders to close the Force News today and to hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u57	Terrence, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u58	Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to hear an evaluation of you as an expert on this situation. At the same time, I would like to inform people. In Russia today, at the direction of the central authorities of the Russian authorities and the corresponding request of Kuchma, more than 500 polling stations are being built to hold four million votes for Yanukovic. I mean, the election of the Ukrainian President wants to go to Ukraine. Next. There are reports, including the media in Russia, Rostov-na-Donu, and other cities, of groups of so-called Cossacks, etc. And they're already moving through Lugansk to Ukraine, where they have to break up the elections and things like that. And that's why, and to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Let's, maybe we'll do an election mission earlier, invite Kiwalov, the prosecutor, to come here, because only Parliament is going to do the work that they want to do today is the last island of democracy in this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u59	Yes. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u60	Your Honor, Victor Vasilovich! Regrettably, there is a real threat to Ukraine’s national security in connection with the intervention of officials and organs, whole organs, of the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, you're right and you said that right. We heard Mr. Girinowski's statements yesterday. We have not only heard the reactions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to these statements. We didn't hear it because there's no government ministry that's going to make Ukraine. So, I think that the images that are allowed about the leader of the largest faction, "Our Ukraine," Mr. Yushchenka, Mrs. Timoshenko, who allowed himself to be allowed by Girinowski, allow us to say that this person is undesirable, as is all of whose teams he, as a joke, is doing in this state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! The answers to the questions are over, time is running out. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes to talk. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Yuri Anatolyovich, you've already spoken. Let's give it to others. You reported it. Please, Vladimir Puzakov, get ready for Onopena. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u62	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The adoption of the Ukrainian Administrative Procedural Code should regulate relations between individuals at the legislative level. Unfortunately, today the state does not have the constitutional right of citizens to appeal to them. For years, people have beaten the thresholds of the bureaucratic system, written complaints, sought advice, aid, but other than formal writings, and more often silences, they receive nothing. As an example of this appeal by the people of the city of Kirovgrad of the Summit, these bitter customs, in search of truth for 12 years, have not resolved anything. This man does not require anything extraordinary, except that they just count the payment of compensation for the loss of work, according to medical expertise. The answers that the husband received. They say no one works with complaints. No study of the matter is conducted, the local authorities are sent, and the answer is one that pleases them. And that's what they're sending to the plaintiff. The idea is that no one in our country is needed. The laws, no matter how much we adopt them, are not implemented, but the Constitution is only implemented in words. Another case. A young man who wants to be a useful state is simply being destroyed. I was helped by a young woman named Dorechenko Helena. She had Kazakhstan's citizenship. But she's marrying a Ukrainian citizen, of course, and she's still living with her husband in Ukraine, and she needs citizenship, but not here. In OVIRA, she was offered to give up her citizenship as she has been living in Ukraine for more than five years and will be granted Ukrainian citizenship. And Ukraine's citizenship has been waiting for four years. I have dozens of letters coming to my address, and each one of them is the cry of the human soul. After all, before them is a wall that cannot be pierced. And regardless of whether sick or disabled or unemployed, they all play heartlessly. Thus, the Code should be designed to establish and secure rights and freedoms and to help limit acts of bureaucracy and self-sustainment by public officials, as recorded in the program of candidate to Ukraine’s presidents, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u63	Basil Onopenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the main purpose of this law of the future is to change the attitude of authority toward man. I think that the huge number of complaints that we are receiving from the Supreme Council to the authorities shows that the rights and freedoms of citizens are being violated. Of course, there is judicial protection regarding the rights and freedoms of citizens violated, and the number of people who go to court is increasing each year. In 2003 alone, the courts reviewed only about 6 million cases, 18 percent more than in 2002. But when it comes to the future codex, I feel that it is necessary and must be accepted as soon as possible. Because it is known that today the legal regulation of citizens' appeals to the authorities is made by a number of normative acts, namely, the Citizens' Appeal Act, the President's Decree on Measures to Ensure the Constitutional Rights of Citizens to Referral, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Ordinance on Approval of instructions from the Department of Public Prosecutions, various notable acts. People are simply confused in this legal sphere, so the adoption of a code, the only legislative act, will enable them to effectively regulate these relations. Moreover, when it comes to turning citizens, the Law extends only to citizens, not to legal persons. The future codex will extend to legal persons. The future code will clearly define the procedure for examining citizens’ appeals to government authorities and to self - government bodies. And it's very important that it will allow local authorities, local self-government authorities, to intervene on issues that concern people, because it can be a decision that can be made to undermine citizens' rights and freedoms, but it's not possible to fix the situation. So I think it's very important. I would like to point out that this is the first codex adopted in Ukraine among the SND countries. It is also important to stress that Ukraine has developed the concept of administrative reform, and this will be an important contribution to this concept. We in the committee are finalizing the preparation of the Administrative Procedure Code. And I think that, in a population, these two codes will give us the opportunity to regulate important issues, who wants to go to court, who's out of court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u65	Yuri Solomatin, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Roswadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u66	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, St. Dear colleagues, the Administrative and Procedural Code, introduced by the government of capitalist ministers to the bourgeois Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is aimed at making makeup on the antihuman face of bourgeois power to the capitalist system in Ukraine. I'm not going to give you a lot of facts, but I'm only going to give you two. Eight of the MPs and questions that I, as Ukraine's national deputy, address the central authorities, end up with a simple write-off. What about a simple average Ukrainian? I'm just going to give one of the last examples when I got this note. I was approached by voters from the Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kiev, young people, commodores, saying that their names were used without their consent, without their permission by the Union of Anarchists of Ukraine to register with the Ukrainian Anarchist Union district. When this was established, as Ukrainian national deputy, I applied to the district prosecutor's office, to the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and made a request from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Finally, he received the answer from the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs: There is nothing there, there is no pattern of crime. Ladies and gentlemen, since the use of electronic databases is now very common not only to collect signatures, but I can see how databases are being used to attract and falsify the creation of public and political organizations. That is why I want to say so. Make-up won't work. So our faction will not vote in favour of this administrative procedure code of Ukraine. Only the return of the peoples to the form of councils of workers is a guarantee of respect for the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. This was confirmed by the head of the Committee on Legal Policy when he answered my question: During Soviet times, bandits and criminals were in prison, and now they are in power, in all its branches. So what I want to say is that the return of the Soviet people is part of the program of the Communist President Peter Simonek. We vote for Peter, and the authorities will be ours, and there will be no things, no flaws, that will be felt and felt by our common man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u67	Victor Razwadowski, "The One Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the faction of the "One Ukraine" Party is in favour of the adoption of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Procedure. This is an important step towards reforming administrative legislation and an essential part of administrative reform that we are working together in our country. The draft code is in line with the concept of administrative reform in Ukraine. The adoption of such a code is also consistent with European experience, since in most European countries the relationship between executive authorities and local authorities with individuals and legal entities is regulated by separate normative acts. For example, in the Federal Republic of Germany there is an administrative procedure law. In the Republic of Austria, there is a general law on administrative procedure. Therefore, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party believes that the adoption of the Administrative Procedure Code will bring Ukrainian legislation closer to European legislation. At the same time, we think that the individual positions of the project should be further developed. For example, we have to agree with the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority's comments that the project does not have a clear procedure, because the positions on these issues are contained in different chapters, chapters. especially in articles 12, 34, 48, 53, 63. There is also no time limit for accusing an administrative act. However, it is determined that a complaint for its review is filed within 30 days of its entry into force. There is no time limit for an administrative action to be brought against a person’s claim, articles 54, 65. Therefore, it is appropriate to provide for a separate chapter in which to specify the terms of administrative implementation, the terms and procedures of the administrative action, the terms of its review of the complaint, and others for all types of administrative implementation provided for in article 4 of the draft. Articles 38 and 39 refer to the so - called simplified procedure for dealing with matters. However, it is not clear from the project what is involved in this simplified way of dealing with the matter, is it necessary to rule out administrative misconduct in such a case? What is the simplified procedure for dealing with the case, which is the time frame for it? The faction of the "One Ukraine" party advocates that the positions noted are necessarily defined in this project. In addition, we feel that it is important to establish clearly who is the authorized subject under this code, since according to the project, in some cases it is the executive authorities, the local authorities, and in others the official authority of the authorized entity, the executive director of the authorized entity, and so forth. The "One Ukraine" faction supports the adoption of this code and requests that we take our comments into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u69	Yes, thank you, Victor Josephovich. The word is Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u70	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Our Ukraine, Yavorowski and Jovkovsky districts, Lvivščina. Dear colleagues! Some bitter paradox is that, in the background of everything that is going on in the Ukrainian state today, we are discussing what seems to be a democratic, innocent and extremely necessary law to protect the rights of our people and their interests. I am absolutely convinced that the adoption or non-admission of this law will mean absolutely nothing for today's situation, especially in the first reading, because it is the naked declaration reported here by the minister of justice. What we have for the Ministry of Justice, I still don't know to this day whose interests it protects, and this law is the same. Because of this, of course, how ironic some of the naive and banal articles of this Constitution sound, based on what, let's say, our President, you may have heard this murderous story, which in another country probably would have led to either the impeachment of what happened in Lithuania, you know, when the president of the Russian businessman, our president of the joke, so you know that the tie before he met Putini, he dropped and said to the Greenewite, the head of the Odess administration, "Give him this second nationality," or the second one of his passports, the Cobzon, and so on. [[Helped to Provide Citizenship]] And Cobzon is driving across Ukraine today and aging for Yanukovich. I've just come back from the deep areas of the Zitomir region where these rights violations of the electorate -- that's what I'm saying to our monitoring committee -- literally at every step where people are being chased and intimidated, say, in the Kiev dormitories, they collect passports and say, "You can no longer come to the election." I'm finishing my speech by saying again, on the back of this creepy situation, which reminds me of it. Or at all, it's like, well, the situation is that we've been surrounded for a long time, and it's been decided for us for a long time. I'm sure we don't have to vote for this bill. I think that if, do not bring God, the Ukrainian people will make another mistake and vote for Yanukovich, then this law can be put on a whistle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the time for consideration is exhausted. Now we're going to figure it out. Perhaps the Minister of Justice's closing statement? Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I want to say that during the discussion a number of suggestions were put forward, which can certainly be considered when preparing for the second reading, particularly as regards the compilation into one chapter of different articles of conduct. Where the subject is concerned, it is certainly outside the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, since it sets out, in fact, if translated into domestic language, the order of work with citizens and the recourse of legal persons to those assigned to work and is to adopt decisions by working in different departments, institutions that have the authority to approve an administrative decision. The issues that have been raised today with regard to law enforcement agencies are absolutely unrelated to this bill, and these are regulated by other draft laws. So if we want to regulate the functioning of this system of executive organs, both within the executive power of the State and within the local authorities. But I'm asking you to make a conscious decision about whether or not you want to regulate these relations to ensure the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u73	Yes. Dear colleagues! The draft Code of Administrative Procedure of Ukraine on the draft Code of Administrative Procedure has been finalized. In accordance with the proposal of the profile committee, I am voting for acceptance on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Code of Administrative Procedure, registration number 5462. One minute! Change the vote. Out of procedure, please, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u74	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you to watch as carefully as you do, who did not register in the hall and ask for a recess, for which we thank you for watching us. And if you could just look in the hall and see that there's no Victor Yushchenka - Block of Our Ukraine in the hall today, there's no Timoshenko-Block of Yulia Timoshenko in the hall today, there's no Alexander Frost. But their cards are voting. These are the people who claim to be leaders of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I want to say one thing that I have in my blood and in my profession I don't have to see. If someone is doing what he is observing, observe. There's a regular committee. Please identify yourself on this matter with the Standing Committee. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to adopt on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Code. [[Registration number 5462]] Please vote. [[11:31:35]] For-146 The law is not adopted. Proposing a profile committee. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The draft code is extremely important. Some comments and suggestions were made. I think the committee will come back to his consideration, taking into account many of the suggestions that have been made here. So please send for the first rereading, and then we will work together with the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u77	I am voting on a proposal by the committee to re-read the Ukrainian Administrative Code. [[Registration number 5462]] Please vote. [[11:32:35.]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Two factions: the Union MPs and the Ukraine faction in accordance with the Rules require a 30-minute recess. [[From the hall. Don't hear it.]] What? Just a minute. In accordance with established practice, if you need to make a statement immediately, please make a statement. Break? Well, then, dear fellows. Please listen carefully. The break shall be declared as required for half an hour. At 12 o'clock we have a technological break according to the Rules. Thus, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Please be in the session room after this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we continue our work at the request of two factions-- the MPs of the Union and the factions. "Ukraine" was declared a 30-minute break. Please, who's going to make the application? On behalf of two of these MPs, Stephen Gavrish will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, since the start of the presidential race, the normal regulatory process has been reliably blocked. The Parliamentary rostrum is used only for taking and resisting, accompanied by fruitless verbal battalions and ideological advances. It's practically turned into a hunting ground for political opponents. There are reports of concern for a small Ukrainian on the part of those who bring the work of the Supreme Council to absurdity by their actions in Parliament. They are not loaded with bullets, but in some cases political cannons are fired with gulps of dirt and profanity. New prosecutors are on the scene, claiming that the courts and executioners are one - person authorities at the same time. Speculating on far-reaching topics, our opponents are trying to turn the parliamentary rostrum into a field for political games, where conflicts are constantly being declared, calls for the overthrow of power, cheap and empty pre-election slogans, which set the fuse on fire under our stability, threaten national security. This situation needs to be assessed not only from a political and immoral point of view, but also from a legal point of view, its legal analysis shows a grave violation of article 79 of the Constitution, articles 1 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy and Ukraine", paragraph 3.8. 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and a series of articles of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. In the face of chaos and political hysteria prevailing in the Supreme Council, its plenary activities have been turned into nonsense and decisions taken contrary to legislation cannot be legitimate. Parliament does not carry out its constitutional duties; the Supreme Council cannot work properly in the session hall, a truly unconstitutional number of national deputies for the adoption of laws. We, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, Raisa Bogatirirov, Leonid Krawchuk, Igor Sharov, Valerius Desert Tenko, Mikola Onischuk, Mikola Hapoczka, Bogdan Hubsky, Stepan Gavrish, on behalf of our MPs, claim that we cannot, we have no moral right to continue to participate in this political show. We need to do everything, save Parliament, preserve Parliamentaryism as a guarantor of democratic development, and create social compromise. We apologize to the Ukrainian people for their insult as a source of authority. We ask the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give due consideration to such cases. We are also addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine, moving plenary meetings from this week to December 7 to 10, and this week setting up committees, parliamentary factions and groups for work. This is the only way for Parliament to work constructively, the only way to prevent violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. We also ask the President of Ukraine not to sign bills that have been adopted in violation of the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, one minute, one minute. Zarubinski, and everyone else, please log in. The Zambian something about factions, and the rest of you, three minutes, please exchange your thoughts if you have to. Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. This has happened several times. I want to be honest with you that we didn't discuss this at all at the faction meeting. And clearly no one asked me or my will or a large number of our deputies. That's why I think it's worth noticing. Finally, these issues have to be discussed, and only then can anyone say it's on behalf of the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u82	Put your name on the board. Three minutes. Nigger Vladimir, please. None. Mikhail. Yes. I'm sorry, I looked over there. Please, Black Mike's microphone, then Rodionov's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u83	I can only say one thing that I am ashamed of, ashamed of Havrish, ashamed of the so-called majority, ashamed of the government. Well, where was it, and when in the world did government bills go, and the government coalition blocked Parliament's work? It's nonsense! It's actually a theater of absurdity! It's an attempt to destroy parliament, parliamentaryism, nothing more. Let's call things our names. Let's be decent, after all. You don't have to fall, Stepan Bogdanovich, below the level of urban sewerage. You have a sense of human dignity or have lost it altogether! I'm worried about Parliament. In the end, the people will decide who will be president. But let's be human. I say that when I was a man, not a deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u84	Yes. Please, Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u85	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I want to say that the Communists worked and worked in the Supreme Council and believe that it should work up to 31 numbers inclusive. The point is that we are either being accused of using this rostrum for agitation. Please tell me, what is not used in Ukraine for agitation? This rostrum may be the only one left in the rostrum to tell the truth about how the election campaign is going. The mass expulsion of communists from the district commissions is now under way. And the last. Here the speaker spoke of moral law. I want to say, indeed, this is moral law for all those who have chosen and humiliated the people who have led them to poverty do not. And only communists have that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u86	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u87	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is calm about this statement that has been made here. But we do have a lot of questions today. We don't understand what the governing coalition wants to take down today's sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, move. Because tomorrow we agreed on the Conciliation Council that we would consider the country’s budget in the first reading, and it would be represented by the government. It turns out that the government with one hand is offering to consider the budget, and with another hand it is proposing to tear it down. Here you get, as if in the household order, to move, as if a dog in the yard is teaching you how to live. As for the work of Parliament, we, the socialists, are firm for continuing to work. And to conclude, I would like to take this opportunity to turn to the voters: don't believe the ratings, but vote by conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, allow me to say a few words in connection with the situation that has arisen. The head of the Supreme Council is charged with not restricting the right to speak to national MPs, who sometimes speak words that can be interpreted as supporting one candidate and pouring dirt on another candidate. But, dear colleagues, I can never know in advance what the national MP will be talking about. Secondly, when a national MP speaks, he starts talking about the law, and then he talks about the political situation everywhere. So I don't have a regular reason not to give up the speech. Moreover, when these accusations were made and now, in fact, repeated, they were sounded last Friday as if on behalf of MPs, and there were no signatures. So this was a statement by the faction leaders. I asked for information, how do they use their right of national deputies to speak from factions on Wednesday, Friday, when they're half-hours away from deputies, and Friday at 13 o'clock at the Miscellaneous? The picture is like this, I'm bringing it to your knowledge. Since the beginning of the sixth session, they have used their rights to such performances in accordance with the Rules: the faction "Our Ukraine" 21 times, the faction "Ukrainian Region" five times, the faction of the Communists 24 times, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine five times, the faction "Trudova Ukraine" five times, the faction of the Social Party eight times, the faction of the agrarians five times, the BUT 12, the Alliance three, the deputy group "Centre" twice, the faction of the People's Democratic Party and industrialists and entrepreneurs twice. [[united]] So the statement that there is no way to defend our position is nothing more than politics. One second. Dear colleagues, I'm here to address those deputies who are actually left behind and on behalf of whom there was a speech today. I want to tell you, my dear colleagues, that you are implementing the first part of the scenario, not knowing what the second part of the scenario is about the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'm going to be accused of prejudice, but I'll tell you that the first part of the scenario is to paralyze the work of the Supreme Council today. And the main reason is the disguise that Parliament is using today as a political platform. One minute! The second scenario is whether the second part of the scenario, after the election, is actually going to stay in the political mood. And they're going to be the winner, or the one, or the other, who can't win, the theorizing that the country doesn't need such a parliament. You're saying it's unrealistic to create, so I'm talking to those who today, during the inter-government season, obediently follow these instructions, and then they'll tell you not to go to Parliament at all. And you say, "Yes!".. But I want to tell you, my dear colleagues, in the new election law, 70 percent of the people will not go to Parliament. And even the instinct of self - preservation, let alone the responsibility of the Mother - in - law, to whom all swear, not to the place! And today patriotism is the most moving commodity we have. So you have to think about these perspectives and come out of what we want for the country and what's going to happen in the country after 31st, because it's clear that after the elections many people will have to find a job, they'll try to find this job in the Supreme Council, and to do that, they'll have to block the work of the Supreme Council in order to have a timely election. It's not a hypothesis, it's a real political prognosis, even though I understand how they're going to appreciate my words right now. But it's true! [[Applause]] Let's keep working. Once again, dear colleagues, there is a requirement under the Rules for two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" -- to give time for a break or a time for a performance. One minute, I want to go back to the transcript again, so that I don't get blamed for why I didn't respond to the demand I made from the beginning. I want to say that there were two factions in the request for a recess, one of which was not registered, then I proposed, make an offer in accordance with the Rules, and there will be an opportunity for a break so that I do not be accused of supporting or not supporting one of them. I'm acting according to the Rules. Please publish for three minutes the two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" -- wanted to take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u89	Dear citizens, distinguished national MPs! I am authorized on behalf of the faction of Victor Yushchenk's Block and the Yulia Block to inform you of our position, because on more than one occasion in this sessional room and today, holders of the President's Administration and one of the factions keep crying that Yushchenko should apologize. I want to tell you that what's happening in the session room and what's happening today, when the authorities have already released the millionaires and the distinguished directors of the factories to block the rostrum and the head of the Supreme Council, that means that it's no longer an hysteric in power, it's not a panic in power, it's no longer an immoral behavior -- the behavior of its hammock. And Ham is not because Victor Yanukovich's cellmates called him in the Ham zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u90	I'm asking you to limit yourself. I'm not going to give you the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u91	Ham, because the authorities have no respect for human dignity or morals. You want Yushchenko to apologize for surviving after the assassination of his life? Will you demand that the Gongadze family and his mother apologize to the authorities who organized his murder? You might ask that the family of Igor Aleksanderova apologize to the Doña bandits and the Doña authorities who beat him up? Or should Marianne Black, who committed suicide because of a national MP who is an expert in medicine and poisoning, apologize? Is it necessary to apologize to Barbara Timofievni Yushchenko, who is in the hospital today after that filth about Victor Yushchenk on TV? I want to make an official statement. Victor Yushchenko and our two blocs can only be assigned to the Ukrainian people for one thing: Apologize before there is still criminal power in this country. But this authority has 12 days left. Neither poison nor dirt nor egg will help this authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, once again I ask you not to hang labels on each other, to be tolerant. And this is especially true of those people who today are competing for the right to become presidents, to all, without exception. I'm asking you not to do that again. And on behalf of the Supreme Council, in front of all the presidential candidates, if they think it was wrong, and you don't need to hang labels. Excuse me. And please, let's keep working with tolerance. Don't make me unlock the microphone. The draft Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme is being announced for consideration. Registration number is 6147. The bill is proposed for consideration. For the report, up to 10 minutes, the answers to the questions, up to 5 minutes, for the report, 5 and 5 questions, discussion and decision-making, 15 minutes. Is there no objection? What? What? Well, that'll give us a chance to say from the faction. Very few factions left. Don't worry. From the procedure for dealing with this matter, please, Rudzikowski. It's just a procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u93	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, there is a proposal to increase the Rules of Procedure for Discussion, so that all factions can speak, express their position -- this is the first. Oh, that's different. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it is now understood that the authorities are going to falsify the elections. We socialists, everywhere, see what's going on in this training. Militia's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u94	I beg of you, Mikolayovich, after this. Basically, it's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u95	We need to hear a report, perhaps your commission, which controls the election in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Microphone, please. Dear colleagues, on Friday you looked there, and we have information from the Temporary Special Commission. All of it. Dear colleagues! We have 45 minutes to discuss the matter. So it's 25. 20 let's talk about it and we'll talk about almost 45. Please, who will report from the government? Minister Mikola Ivanovich Derkac is Minister of Economics and European Integration. Please, Mikola Ivanovich. prepare for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! Ukraine's National Economic and Social Development Programme 2005 project has been developed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes. This year, for the first time in recent years, the State Program project has been submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration for the discussion of the State Budget project. Hopefully that'll be the rule. The main positions of the State Program project are aimed at implementing the main tasks of the government's "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility". First. Fixing high economic growth rates based on its innovation and investment component. It's different. Ensuring access to economic growth results for as many citizens as possible. These tasks identified the content and basic features of the document. The main feature is to group the sections of the programme in the following main directions: raising social standards in the way of achieving the Millennium Development Goals and modernising the economy on the basis of an innovative model. This orientation allows you to see the long - term perspective of the annual tasks. The main milestones and tools for implementing the programme are presented in the appendix and are consistent with the 2005 State Budget Project. You see them on the slide. A clear definition of the resources of all sources is the guarantee that the program is executed. Dear National Deputies! Now it's essentially a document. The government predicts continued growth in Ukraine's economy at a rate that will be one of the highest in Europe and the GNI at 8.6 percent. The National Programme project is based on the following macroeconomic parameters: nominal GDP will be at least 387 billion dollars; per capita GDP will reach at least 8.2,000 dollars and increase by 2 years almost one-and-a-half; real GDP will increase by not less than 12 percent, and real income per capita will be by 11; gross capital accumulation will increase to 21 percent of GDP compared to 19.6 in the current year. I'm going to point out that we're predicting real stability of growth rates. The economy has gained turnover over the past four years, with an average growth rate of 7.4 percent. It is now important to keep pace with investment in those areas that give the most added value and income. The following internal conditions will form such a dynamic of growth. Substantial increases in population demand and expansion of domestic production, as well as increased investment resources for enterprises. External conditions remain favourable to exporters, but the peak of rising prices and demand for metals came just over the current year. Therefore, we should count on some stability of the external conjuncture in the following year. As a result, exports are expected to slow down, with an increase of 8.7 percent. Saving high prices for Ukrainian exports and diversifying them in the process of machine building production will help to stabilize its dynamics. As a result, economic policy will be geared on the one hand to stimulate the dynamic growth of the income of the population and the own resources of enterprises, on the other hand, to maintain a balance between demand and supply of goods and services from Ukrainian producers with moderate inflation. Industrial output is projected to grow by 12 percent, including 25 percent machine building, 13 percent food industry, and 13 percent light. Main product balance serves as an effective tool for regulating markets and performing tasks and providing the population with the most important food. The following year, meat production is projected to grow by 5.2 percent, sugar by 7.1 percent, and milk by 3.8 percent. You can see the quantity of per capita consumption on the slide. In terms of meat and milk, these quantities are not yet in line with the health standards of the consumer basket, but in the next two years we will overcome this inadequacy through animal development programs. More than 900 million dollars are budgeted for this. In total, the agrarian sector has a budget of 8.2 billion dollars, 60 percent more than planned for the current year, taking into account changes. Capital costs will amount to 2.5 billion dollars. This should increase productivity to 15 percent compared to 12 in the current year. The list of targeted integrated agro-industry programs for 252 million dollars is presented on the slide. I would also like to point out that next year's economic development will also be balanced with energy resources. Funding from the State Budget for targeted energy programs totalling 5 billion dollars will contribute to energy demand, 43 percent more than in the current year. More than 4 billion dollars are being used to finance the Ukrainian Coal Program. The construction of three new mines and the reconstruction of six mines is planned, and the construction of the Dniestrowski and the Taslic Gaes is expected to continue. Oil and gas production, including the Black Sea and the Azova Seas, will be increased. Investment in the sector is 7.8 billion dollars. The industry will implement 14 state-owned programs with 13.1 billion dollars. The main ones are presented on the slide, such as the State Industrial Development Programme by 2011, the Programmes for the Development of High Science Technologies, Aviation Industry, Industrial Reform and Development, Mining and Metallurgical Complex, etc. The development of the transport complex is planned to target 16.6 billion dollars. Increasing domestic demand and the market will stimulate production capacity utilization, and increase business revenue. On the slide, you can see the level of loading capacity at the beginning of this year, according to the Konjunctural Survey. In industry, it was 58 percent on average, and in manufacturing goods, it was only 40 percent. This level still does not correspond to the potential of Ukrainian producers. The program is designed to increase this level by at least 8 percent. To do that, we need to accumulate a lot of investment resources. Together with the program, we are proposing a state development budget of over 80 billion dollars. Its basic settings are displayed on slides. The implementation of the development budget will ensure the entry of students' seats by 25 percent more than in the current year, hospital beds and local water networks by 29, highway pipelines by 14 percent, and gas networks by 19 percent. Substantial changes in depreciation policy will be introduced by a new law on depreciation, which will soon be brought before the Supreme Council. It must form an effective recovery regime for the core funds. Today, they have an average of 47 percent. As you understand, the task of actively updating the production base cannot be solved without innovation. So the second block of the program is about modernizing the economy on the basis of an innovative development model. The programme provides for the financing of innovation projects in the priority sectors of the economy through public procurement, as well as the introduction of a system for predicting scientific and technological and innovative development. The total expenditure of the State budget for the financing of science and technology will amount to over one and a half billion dollars next year. Ladies and gentlemen, with the implementation of the tasks of the State Program, we will be provided. First, there's an increase in the share of businesses in the total of companies, which is at least seven percent. Secondly, the productivity increase is 14 percent. Thirdly, the increase in the share of innovative active industrial enterprises to 13 percent of their total. High economic efficiency will ensure that the tasks of raising the population’s monetary income and wages are carried out. In the following year, 54 percent of all budget expenditure will be allocated to social services. The introduction of a minimum wage of 262 bracelets from January 1st is foreseen for 10.5.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u98	Allow me to finish the speech. Now turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u99	The increase in pensions is no less than 20 percent of the increase in the average wage. Increasing social assistance for the disabled and for the elderly, for the disabled, for the homeless. An average of 409, while an average wage of 703 bracelets, is a minimum of a working person’s living allowance. Increases to 1.6 billion. Money from the State budget of the Chernobyl disaster mitigation programme. The increased funding of education from the State budget by 40 percent will allow them to improve their material and technical base, provide computers, textbooks, and school buses. To that end, priority is given to funding five targeted complex programs. The following year, the issue of housing for the population, especially for young, military personnel, remains important. More than seven million square feet [7 million sq m] of housing are envisaged. The government budget for youth housing will increase by 63 percent next year to build the Own House programme by 13.6, the population cost of housing construction will increase by 15 percent. A national mortgage lending system, including housing, is being created. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words about the main instruments for implementing the priorities of economic policy of the government. First. The following year, the budget will finance 169 state-owned target programmes of 16.3 billion. That's right. This is nearly 12 percent more than planned for 2004. Thanks to the Law on Targeted Comprehensive Programmes adopted in March, we hope to optimize the number of such programs next year. The other one. The total government order for the following year is 5.4 billion. That's right. To improve the efficiency of budget use, there is a shift to government procurement planning, based on health - care standards, personnel training, and so forth. And finally, let me point out, last week, we had a discussion about the state program project on the boards of the Supreme Council. We're working with the ministries on all the comments and suggestions made by the deputies and we're predicting them to be taken into account and reconciled with the figures of the 2005 State Budget. Ladies and gentlemen, please approve the 2005 draft of the State Economic and Social Development Programme, while supporting the Government's desire to work more closely with the Supreme Council on the formation of economic and social policies of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report is complete, please sign up for a question if you have one. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Minister! That's my question. In principle, there is no record of any forecast of the Cabinet of Ministers for 2005 -- an increase in the minimum pension. Moreover, there is no indication that the pension will increase by another 20 percent since March, as Tihypco recently stated. To be clear, the position of the program somehow deviates from what the Prime Minister himself says. And also, there's a paradoxical situation: the minimum pension is now higher than the minimum wage. Is there no discrimination against those working in this case? And doesn't the program need to be reviewed at all in relation to these realities, such as an increase in the minimum wage, so that it at least responds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Economics, together with the Ministry of Social Policy, will be considering all these issues, why I said in my closing statement that, given the comments of the Committees, we will be working out. The figures I mentioned in my statement are consistent with the realities and macro indicators that have been set, and you know how to calculate them. The statistical data were mainly on 1 July and the programme was made up of such factors. All the other factors you discussed and the reasons will be considered further during the harmonization of the programme. To the extent that this will be taken into account, it is difficult for me to say today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u103	Zara Katusheva, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u104	Please pass the word Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u105	Victor Mironenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u106	Mironenko, Fifth constituency, Communist faction. Two questions. First question. Please tell me why the program does not take into account the experience of brotherly neighbouring Belarus, where Aleksandr Ivanovich Lukashenko won both during the referendum and in the elections because they have a programme for the people? And, you know, there's free housing and free education, health and so on. That's the first question. There they can be proud of many. Thank you, Lukashenko. Second question. The Communist faction advocates the establishment of a national investment bank to provide credit and investment for the economy. Why isn't that on your program? Why do you also not have clear integration into Ukraine's union with Russia and Belarus? This will also contribute to economic growth and a higher standard of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u107	Thank you for asking. With regard to the comparisons you have made with Belarus, each of the former Allied republics has an economy in both those years and now. Today, our macro indicators only allow for this dynamic of growth. And this trend is higher than in other countries, including Belarus. In 2005, there was a basis for us to pursue a more active social policy in the years to come. There's just some bad indicators. As far as housing is concerned, free of charge and so on. You know that the participation of the State in housing is financed, both for the budget and for the categories that need it. However, the experience of all countries shows that co-financing, I have said that there is a need for faster adoption of the mortgage law. This will enable all sources of funding to be used. And you're saying that our program is not integrated. On the contrary, I must say that the programme has been in social and economic development for all years, when it was proposed in Parliament, you know the high degree of cooperation in our sectors of the people's economy with the CIS countries. So here, the program takes this into account. How far is that possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u108	Yes. Mikhail Sithina, please. Yes. He's out. Filthy. Please. Oh, there is. I'm sorry, Mikhail Sitina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u109	Please give the floor to the national deputy Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u110	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u111	The fact that the government of Viktor Yanukovic has doubled subsidies to local budgets for the construction of social projects over the past two years. This has already been felt by our people in places. But a few questions, answers to which our voters would like to hear. First. How is the need for public investment in construction of unfinished buildings met? And what are the factors that will help to get the economy out of the shadows? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u112	Thank you. With regard to unfinished construction facilities. You know that in Ukraine, more than 27,000 of them are housing and other objects of various destinations. 45 billion bracelets are needed to complete construction. You can see from the indicators that this year there is a growth rate and a capital budget in the draft budget. However, resource provision has not enabled longer-term work to be carried out to date. With regard to the question of detonation. This is a painful issue for the economy of Ukraine and the Government throughout the period, you know. There have been rulings and much depends on how much we work with you to enact a number of laws - this is about the Tax Act and the same public procurement of the programme to the extent that we carry out them and a number of others. But once again, I stress that the Government is working on this issue, and there are results. If it was earlier in statistics, you know, up to 35 percent in shadow, the last two years have dropped by 4 to 5 percent, to 30 percent. The programme provides for a further 2 per cent reduction for the following year. But this is a set of measures that depends not only on the Government but also on the solidarity, I repeat, on the responsibility of both the Government and the Supreme Council. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Milo Ivanovich. Time's up. Please have a seat. The first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property and Investments, Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, has the floor for the report. While Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjochin is coming along, I'm getting acquainted with the honourable colleagues with the text, because it was bad to hear the statement that was made by Stephen Gavrish, and I'm asking the regulatory committee then to consider in the part where there is a gross violation of both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council Rules and a series of articles of the Presidential Elections Act and to give an appropriate conclusion to the Supreme Council. I'm going to make this statement because it's essentially an accusation against the entire Supreme Council. And there's the other one. There are no draft regulations, if there is, we will consider. And I would like to ask the Committee of Legal Policy to consider and conclude immediately so that we can get to know the Supreme Council and the public, because this is a serious accusation. Please, I'm sorry. Stepan Ilkovich, please, I apologized to you. Please, Vladimir Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national MPs, members of the government! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment for two years has consistently insisted on the need to consider and adopt Ukraine's State Economic, Social Development Programme at an early pace in relation to the National Budget project for Ukraine for the corresponding year. The effort to resolve this issue was at the heart of our committee's holding of two round tables and parliamentary hearings in the current year. We have finally succeeded in doing so through the joint efforts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Somethin' about the question-solving procedure. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include the approval of state-wide economic, scientific, technical, social, national and cultural development programmes, but due to the absence of a clearly defined algorithm for action, such as the Budget Code for the State Budget of Ukraine, the question arises: How should the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine -- as a simple bill, through three readings, or an example of a decision on the approval of the programme of action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? The findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration say that the first reading of the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. So we're actually going to go to the first time we're looking at a government program. In view of the above conclusion, as well as the conclusions, suggestions and observations of eight committees, one faction, one MP and one Ukrainian national deputy, the question is: Who should take responsibility for taking into account or rejecting the proposals? In our committee's view, it is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that should process and take into account all the comments and suggestions made in the 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine. Overall, while supporting the majority of draft laws by committees, factions and parliamentary groups, it is proposed that they are mutually exclusive and, more importantly, nullify Ukraine's only socio-economic development policy for 2005, as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of our committee, will soon be prepared and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to solve the procedural problems that arise during the review and approval of the Ukrainian State Economic and Social Development Programme. What can be considered as positive sides of the programme is adequate to the existing economic, political and organisational conditions, the country's governance system and the economy. You have to recognize that these are close to the best possible real options. In general, the government program demonstrates a more skilled work on software documents than we had before. The national programme presented is realistic for the announced purposes and steps taken to implement it. The whole and the main actions are presented responsibly and specifically, i.e. with the possibility of assessing the results of the 2005 programme. Of course, a step has been taken to increase the level of software development from the point of view of general system requirements. In view of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investments decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the approval of Ukraine's 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u115	Thank you, too, Volodymyr Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for our colleague? Five minutes. Please sign up. No problem. Sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u116	I ask you to pass the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u117	George Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u118	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear reporter, any program has to have performers, has to have deadlines, implementations and a system of action. Regrettably, there is no system of implementation, no deadlines, no responsible person for any action, unfortunately. So this is basically a declaration of intent. Now for the social block. Everyone is very much talking about that the government is extremely concerned about pensioners, including, but in fact, so that they know that for the next year there is no Law on Living Minimum, no State Social Standards, no State Social Guarantees will be implemented, because this is not in this draft document. I would like to comment on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u119	Thank you. I ask you to note, dear colleagues, that for the first time we are considering the programme before the budget, we are considering the programme for next year. If you remember, we've always been here for a year and the program's been in the hall. As far as the perpetrators are concerned. The executor, of course, of the Government. Yes, we will certainly have another government next year, I mean, personnel. But does it mean that the change of government every time, and we have the tenth government, means a change in the course of the economic, social and social country? Of course not. We must first and foremost defend, and this is the prerogative of the Supreme Council to be a long-term programme to be a programme for the year. And whatever government is coming, it can only improve this programme, but in no case change it by 180 degrees or even 30 degrees. It's about the performers. Yes, clearly there are still many declarative moments in the program. But I would like to note that this programme has already been implemented more precisely from the point of view of the system approach. There are goals, there are ways to achieve the goal. Therefore, despite the large number of comments, although there are comments on social problems and pensions, the Committee considers the programme to be worth the attention. And if the Government finalizes it, taking into account all the comments received, to delete this contradiction, the programme could guide the country's action next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u120	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction. Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u121	Volodymyr Anatolyovich, you've been watching the Ministry of Economics for many years, and for some reason only on issues of European integration. You could put a dot. But the questions are. Does the Ministry have any management functions, or does it affect the management of the national economy or the economy? That's the first question. The second question. Is the ministry using such an important management power as a rational placement of productive forces or production in our space, in Ukrainian, in our territory. And the third. Why there are only 140 students per 10,000. People who have the right to study for free instead of the 180th, as stipulated by the Higher Education Act?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u122	Thank you. Indeed, we are not observing the first year, but we are working closely with the Ministry of Economics. And I want to see that there are successes. We held two round tables this year, parliamentary hearings on relevant economic policy issues. Regrettably, this decision was not taken because of what we have with you today in the hall. But I have the deep hope that this sequence of steps, together with the Ministry of the Economy, will still make the budget a major programme and make the budget a means of implementing the programmes. I can't tell you why the law has not been met today, why aren't students expected today? I think the Ministry of Economics will be able to take that observation into account. And I would like to point out that the programme is a serious step today in the room, that we have it and that we have the budget as a means of implementing the programme. These two documents may not be sufficiently correlated with each other, but they are too serious system documents and it is impossible to make an ideal document immediately. There will always be contradictions, there will always be comments. But this step is very serious, it must be supported by Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u123	Ivan Boki. Ivan Sidorovich, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u124	Dear colleague, I have two questions for you. One: I didn't notice anything in the Minister's report, or in you, or in any way intended to protect our Ukrainian economy in connection with the global economic downturn that actually starts next year, and the Ukrainian economy is going to suffer from it, of course, because it's very integrated into the world, but it's integrated at the level of raw material exports, with vulnerable raw materials. And the second question is specific. Well, for example, it's said that we have a minimum wage of 409, right? And in a teacher from 310 to 390, it doesn't even go up to the minimum. How does this all relate to, let's say, the social program presented by the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u125	There are, of course, many uncoordinated processes. Do you remember when we raised the minimum wage and had to deal with the tariff grid issue with the tariff rates? Then the problem arose with the teachers, and the doctors showed up. I believe that this process of disagreement between the Government and the Supreme Council. There's a moment. As for the protection of our economy in connection with the changing external environment, see what is happening to energy carriers: we are now accused by the Government of unpopular measures, that some administratively prohibit price increases, and you will see that this year the price of energy in global markets has risen by one and a half times. We have an unprecedented price today. We have an understanding of a protection mechanism from the economy. Mechanism one. If we are talking about a market mechanism, it is in the budget to provide for compensation. If we're talking about agriculture, it's going to be money for forward energy contracts, it's money for crop purchases, for example, food, grains at high prices, and it's going to be lost in advance. If we're talking about a metal complex, yes, of course, because of the introduction of power in China, we're going to have a problem today with the realisation of metal. Which way? Only the development of its own production of high-tech machinery. There are no other mechanisms in the world, and the more we integrate ourselves into the world economy, the more we will go to Europe economically, the more we will face these challenges of changing the world's prices. So our task here is to develop legislative mechanisms together with the Cabinet of Ministers and to use them effectively for more than one year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report and the committee’s questions have been completed. Let's move on to the discussion. Please give the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled for discussion. My word is Mironenko Victor, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u127	Fifth District, Mironenko, Crimea, Communist faction. Respected compatriots, the main requirement for Ukraine's economic and social development programme for 2005, are its reality, its system of action in accordance with the interests of the people. But this is not in the programme, and there is a clear respect for the interests of oligarchs through: the first is the continuation of universal privatization, the second is the preservation of the domination of private banks, and the third is the persistence of harmful foreign policy for Ukraine. In keeping with the previous destructive capitalist “adceptor” policies, government policy declarations on social orientation and on an innovative development model are of no use to the people. Indignantly, people recall that the Government of Yushchenka has suspended benefits for workers, laws that are in line with the interests of veterans, persons with disabilities, Chernobyl, cultural workers, science, education, health and social needs, including the minimum wage, while at the same time clarifying the lack of money, while stressing that, at the same time, Gosbücket has invested enormous funds in payment to the oligarchs. This shameful attitude has also persisted with the Government of Yanuković. Wages, pensions are now rising, but prices and tariffs are increasing at a high rate for all the same oligarchs, major capitalists. The fact that one of the so-called highest-ranking candidates is supported by American funds, Zhvania oligarchs, Poshenko, Martinenko, Červonenko, Timoshenko and another by Surkis, Medvedczuk, that they ensure the adoption of programmes, budgets for the oligarchs, shows that everyone supporting such politicians contributes to the maintenance of the anti-national course and must blame only himself. The leader of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Presidential candidate Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko, believes that the implementation of economic and social policies for the benefit of the people is necessary in foreign policy: (1) to ensure an economic customs union with Russia and Belarus. It's not in the program. In domestic policy, it is necessary to: (1) halt the dispersion of public and local budgets; (2) stop universal privatization in the economy; (3) restore the State's ownership of electricity, part of the banking system, the oil and gas complex in order to provide affordable credits, tariffs, prices, the real opportunity to develop, small, medium-sized enterprises and a large, frequent, public, collective enterprises, science-intensive, resource-saving, high-tech enterprises. The implementation of these measures has resulted in multiple increases in income to the State budget, to local budgets, in the increase of multiple salaries, pensions, health financing, education, science and culture. To that end, the distinguished compatriots call for support for Simonck's programme, economic and social programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u128	Yes. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let's talk more about the program. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u129	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Ukraine’s 2005 economic and social development programme is too pessimistic. The country's social and economic development programme is seen in every house and apartment every day -- poverty, unemployment, cold and hunger. That's 140,000 homeless children, that's 20,000 adult homeless people, that's social security spending, that's 17 times down from 90, that's 27 times down from science and education to 12. Today, 82 percent of citizens have monthly incomes that are lower than their living minimum. The average pension size of 13 million retirees is barely half the living minimum. Some 7 million citizens are forced to travel around the world in search of wages for bread. The budget bill and the state programme do not, unfortunately, provide enough to pay off the arrears of wages and social costs, which are now more than 2.5 billion dollars. At the same time, 1 in 4 of the budget bracelets will go to pay off the external debt. Why are we silent that we have completely ignored the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection on one-time annual payouts before Victory Day? Today, it is five times smaller than the law provides. In addition, some categories of war veterans are not provided for such assistance at all, and this is in the year 60, the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders and on the eve of the great victory. The conclusion is that the 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme is not proposed for the benefit of the people, but rather for the successful conduct of the candidate’s electoral marathon, so that he does not start a fever but speaks words of the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin of the faction "Our Ukraine." Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'm reading this program, and I'm thinking whether Victor Fedorovich Janukovic read it, or not, that he's just being informed that it turns out that from Kiev to Chernigov is close. Yeah, and to do that, you just had to study geography. And to read the program, even a very, very easy introduction to it would lead Viktor Fedorovich to such conclusions. First. In fact, those tasks that are dealt with by this program are borrowed from the previous State Programme for 2004 which is not completely done in this respect. Next. For example, the introduction of the minimum hourly wage was to take place as early as January 1, 2004. But the government is not responding. I am such an example of government cynicism and socio-economic development, which is planned for Ukraine's economic and social development for 2005, I would just like to say that the Prime Minister recommends to the President that we veto the legislation that we have adopted here banning evicting debts from veterans, participants in the Great Homeland War, pensioners, invalids, other categories of socially unprotected citizens. Now it's just these citizens that can be thrown out on the street. Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't see it in the program, and we've just adopted this law, we've adopted this law, and you've offered the Veto to officials, and the President has signed it, then why are we talking about one thing and we're doing something else? And this declaration just distinguishes the entire program, it's completely declarant. There is no indication of direct action taken by the program. And I looked at the program and I was thinking, compared to the previous program, how did Janukovich Rint Ahmetov, a handsome young man, manage to double his money twice? How did this happen? How can two billion become richer in one year? Who else has been able to double their welfare in the state? Even a good man.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u132	Leonid Chernewicki, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished radio listeners. "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party, Leonid Chernovetski. Well, first of all, I want to say that the level of respect for this programme has also been shown by the majority, because, of course, watching and reading what we are offered here is pure laughter -- yes and all. It's very similar to Leonidas Ilyich Brezhev's program or some other kind of 100-year-old document. That's it. That's it. Look. It's for those who listen to me on the air. The Government's programme of work is under way. Here, for example, is the strategy for economic and social development. And where does this strategy sell 10,000 mercedes or something? A million dollars? And move all members of the government to cars that are manufactured in Ukraine. Somewhere in here. What is said about how to allocate housing to people is that, as it is called, the funny ministry of economics. I've forgotten what it's like. Don't you think it's funny to read it yourself? People. Besides, where does it say we're at risk of inflation? Where's it said that today some whole squads are running for vendors and making them lower prices? I went to Ukraine, there's no gas. Caroul! Where it's said that we have to keep, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, But if we do not address the issue of disqualification and privilege to officials, yes, who are separated from the people in a separate caste? If we don't solve the programme of the dns problem, 20 percent of which is paid by all citizens in Ukraine who have nothing to live for? Where is it said that we will eventually add a bracelet, when they are already starving, or when they are smothered by these public service payments that no one in Ukraine is providing? It's a funny program for funny people. Of course, there is nothing serious about it. And perhaps this ministry, the Ministry of the Economy, has become a purely pyar campaign for the power of the property, and such a program, it can. If we give it to our pensioners and workers and employees, well, they'll laugh or they won't understand what's written here. Thank you for your attention. Don't put that shit on top.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u134	Yes, Bogdan Hubsky, faction of Ukraine. None. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction, please. Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The analysis of the presented program, in our view, does not give us, especially the factions of Communists, any reason for its optimistic assessments, and hence, some phenomenon of the Ukrainian economy. What is this Ukrainian economic marvel when economic growth is not accompanied by a serious improvement in the standard of living of our citizens? According to externally high indicators of economic indicators, there are poor wages, beggary pensions, high levels of unemployment, which my comrades in the Mironenko and Puzakov factions have been talking about convincingly before me. Yes, the gross domestic product for January-August this year, compared to the corresponding period last year, rose by 13.6, and the producer price index by 16.2 percent. This indicates that growth has been achieved, first of all, at the expense of what we see as a price factor. Despite the optimistic statements of all governments, there has never been a radical change in the structure of industrial production and exports, which in its nature remains raw, inherent to countries that are a colonial addition to developed nations. The government's program of violation of the Constitution is either work or final work, we'd say, destruction of the system of free education, public health care, social protection. And this is against the backdrop of a long-standing rise in food prices, essentials and especially medicines, as well as a rise in electricity, housing, transportation and other services. The most important and important disadvantage of the project is, in our view, the lack of a comprehensive approach to addressing current issues of socio-economic development. The Communists are drawing the attention of society, of all voters, to the need for a radical strengthening of the role of the state in protecting the interests of the population. In this regard, we stress that only our candidate, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, could.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u136	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has a word. Prepare Igor Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, national deputies, voters. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has carefully analysed Ukraine's socio-economic development programme and believes that it does not fully meet the requirements of the Constitution and the needs of time. First of all, we don't have the basic principles of socio-economic development that should have been taken by the government, and we have to move in this direction that would have been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By the way, I want to say that the socialists, Alexander Moroz, have introduced this bill "Basic Principles" to the Supreme Council. If we accepted it, we knew clearly where we were going, not that every president and government could create anything and create it. This was also discussed by previous speakers. We've looked at this program today, and we see that it's not responding, it's not responding to the 2006 budget project, and we appreciate it as a negative. It does not take into account a series of laws that are to be followed today. There was talk here in the report, reports that Ukraine is moving in an innovative way, but for no one is the secret that today almost two-thirds of what we produce is raw materials. Here's your innovation. What an innovative development when articles of the law on innovation are in place, article 23. The 24th, pauses, is proposed by the government to suspend for 2006. It is proposed to stop the operation of the technology park laws and not to create new technology parks. What are we talking about? Every single day, just the 20th production, the enterprise is doing innovation. The '20s! And we're talking about innovation. Today, let us just take up the problems of education. John Boki, my colleague at the faction, said, "Look, in the program offered, the minimum level of living is 409, and the teacher's salary, who graduated from the university, the specialist, and the teacher of the highest category is between 310 and 390. Here's the answer to this program. Or Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov also spoke, free education. How expensive it is today, indeed, for our citizens as well as for medicine. Under the Education Act, higher education -- 180 students per 10,000 budgeters, as of January 1, we have 145. Where did 35 of these students split up, why isn't there today, in the technicians there should be? 100 students per 10,000 population, we have 50. Why we repeatedly abuse each other, we take doubles. taxing our parents, horses directing their children to school? I believe that such socialists, after examining the program, feel that there are many shortcomings in it, and they need to be refined, processed. And in order for a good program to be judged in the country, it is necessary and necessary, the basic principles that have been developed by socialists and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u138	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u139	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The program is made by wise people, and it is generally innovative. Let me stop at the criticism of this program. First. The government’s programme and budget are completely unrelated. Programmes are good intentions, and the budget is real. The budget is aimed at financing primary production, a so-called third economic arrangement. The world is in the sixth economic system. The program wants to develop a fourth and fifth economic arrangement. The other one. The program does not perform basic social tasks: creating a middle class of society. In Ukraine we have a lot of very poor people, we have a tail of very rich people, and the middle class in the country is gone. The only way to achieve prosperity is through active activity, not passive activity. And most of the active activity is always in the middle class. From this point of view, the overall increase in pensions for low-paid population will only lead to the increase in consumption, and this will be a general one, it will affect all the population. A greater economic error than this one was hard to imagine. Third, innovative policy. The transfer of technology, the sudden increase in gross domestic product, from 4.8, was thought to be up to 13.5 percent of GDP, was primarily related to the use of the European technology economy and low wages. This process is going to shut down very soon if there are no changes. The transfer is to be made through the implementation of its own development, but this requires venture funds, foundations, and state funds. There's not a word on that in the program, and that's one of the main tasks of the government. But venary funds are supposed to be created by private enterprises mostly, and the private sector and its work in the program are not sufficiently distinguished. New technology parks. They're completely out of budget. But they have to become embryos of a new enterprise. And it's very strange that there are only four new technology parks in the program when the Supreme Council approved eight new technology parks. I'd like to pay particular attention to the Maple Park, which is a classic small-scale technology park. The creation of a large number of small businesses leads to competition, and competition automatically leads to innovative policies. I would think that this should be done in this program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u140	Igor Raphaelovich, thank you. Dear colleagues! The People's Deputy Pinzenik has made a draft decision on the unacceptableness of the projects that we are just discussing. In accordance with the Rules, he has the right to base his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! The title of the document that we are considering should answer a very simple question: "What is waiting for us in the next 2005?" Do not try to find the answers to this question, for no social category of Ukrainian citizens can understand what is expected next year. Take, for example, the key section of the Social Government Policy. It is not the first year in a row that this chapter contains empty language: raising social standards and guarantees. In doing so, the government sees a traditional phased approximation of the minimum wage to the subsistence minimum. You won't find in the program and an indication of what the next phase of approach the government will take in 2005, and when this approach will finally take place. obviously the answer to this question is in the name of the corresponding section of the program. It's called "Raising Social Standards in the Millennium." So be patient, respected citizens of Ukraine, for by the end of the millennium there is still a long way to go. On our calendar today is not yet October 31, 2004, but in the program you will not find government commitments to supplement pensioners to the minimum of living in the following year, you will not find these supplements in the budget, because the figure is 49 billion for this supplement and the 41 billion for the Pension Fund project. It is not surprising, for on January 1, the following year, a Ukrainian pensioner no longer needs a government today. The main thing is to put his watchfulness to sleep by October 31st of this year. The Prime Minister's right hand is obviously not aware of what he's signing on the left. The government's document provides for an increase in the wages of teaching and teaching staff no less than twice. Get acquainted with the government's budget project. There is a 10.5 - percent increase in teachers ’ salaries. In other words, the real wages of teachers, doctors, cultural workers are proposed by the government to reduce next year. I think that these arguments are enough for us to reject the government's project and how interested the government program is can be seen on the bed. One of the key documents in government activity is considered. The government represents, not the government, but the only minister. And you can see by the behavior of government factions that are not in the Supreme Council Hall today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u142	Yes. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is over. I'll ask the minister before closing. Mikola Ivanovich, please. We can get out of here if you're comfortable. Then invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can make a decision. It'll be motivated. It'll be motivated. Okay!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Let me thank you for the opportunity to make a presentation on Ukraine's 2005 National Economic and Social Development Programme project. This programme has been developed in a radically new economic environment that determines the new quality of growth and raises the agenda for the government's work next year. So it was also important for us to involve as many experts as possible and, above all, the national MPs. I hope that today's constructive discussion, comments and suggestions on how to improve the program that we have received from the Supreme Council Committee and the Scientific and Scientific Administration will help to substantially improve the document and make it, indeed, an economic passport for Ukraine's development. We will certainly try to take all the proposals into account and align them with the draft state budget in the process of its completion. I hope that such a decision will be the beginning of a new approach to a balanced system of economic policy measures for the following year, when their reconciliation with Parliament will start in the spring and pre-budgeting. This will allow us to make more informed decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u144	Respectful colleagues with motives were unable to speak. Just a minute. It's a motive. Semenyuk, School, Hinzburg, Cherniak, and Gabrieluk That's it. And we'll figure it out. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u145	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We recently held the Round Table and talked about economic security in the state. And then I talked about what is needed in the development of the Constitution to adopt first the Law on the Social and Economic Development of Ukraine and based on this law, which must be stable, regardless of the political views that come, they must implement this law and then form an appropriate program. The Cabinet of Ministers did not pass this bill or even reject it, the bill that Alexander Alexander Alexanderus Moroz and other representatives passed. That's why I think that the Cabinet of Ministers should first and foremost introduce such a law as would allow for the implementation of both the programme and have an appropriate basic basis for Ukraine's economic development. And the second. So far, there are no laws that are fundamental to the development of the public sector of the economy. There are determinations, there is a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and even a program.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u146	Andrew School, please. Then Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Before I say two words about the program, I would like to pay attention to all the deputies present and to you personally. If this program isn't interested in government factions, we get it. But why is this not of interest to the government? You look in the government lounge -- who's there to discuss the program, who's here to protect it? There is no such thing as the Prime Minister. I understand he's got pre-election activities, he hasn't run a government in a long time, in principle, he's never been in charge. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u148	I'm asking essentially, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u149	But there's no vice-premier. I'm sorry. No vice-premier in humanitarian matters, and the social component of this bill, this decision is weak enough and I wanted to say more about it because. So our appeals are more to ourselves, to our listeners, to our electorates. But we can't go specifically to those ministers, those vice-premiers who are responsible for each of the sectors of what they run in government. So I'd like to emphasize, if they're not interested, well, this has to be, at least, the position of the Supreme Council on this. In general, the program itself is essentially declarant and corrective. That's why I think I'm voting for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u150	Olga Hinzburg, please be followed by a black man.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs and distinguished voters. Well, you can be horrified. The opposition is criticizing the program today. Where have you been for 10 years? You were sitting there under the authority, so why didn't you do a normal program? Who wouldn't let you do that? I want to pay attention, you see, when the Communist Party was in power, then the social program was expressed in the fact that the teacher had money and didn't have a support farm in the village, the doctor respected himself, and my mother's sausage for one ruble could buy six loaf of bread. These were the results of the program, and this was the Communist Party in power. And you're criticizing each other right now. You had everything in your hands, and there was nothing you could do, and you still wouldn't do anything. Thank you. All right, keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u152	Vladimir Cherniak, then Gabrieluk. If you'll excuse us, we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u153	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. The opposition criticises the program, and it's natural. But the absence of government factions during the government's consideration of the program is not normal, it's nonsense, it's a theater of absurdity. I'm just not comfortable with the economy minister. Why did the government today put the minister of the economy in Parliament? Why did he not take off the program? We have voted many times for government projects recently to support parliament, parliamentaryism in Ukraine, but how much we should do so. Why are there no government factions when the government program is being considered? In this regard and in view of her imperfection, our faction will not vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Basil Gabrieluk, and all, dear colleagues, is running out of time. The factions were already speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u155	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ministry of Economics. The Centre would not support the programme. At least because we are already living in the third millennium and it is time to move away from the declaration and the pure impression of some post-Soviet feeling that is and is reflected in the programme. There is not a single mechanism in which the State or State authority intends to implement and implement the declarations contained in the programme. In addition, we see that even those directly cited examples of programmes that are intended to achieve those goals are unfortunately not determined by any of the programmes. I am no longer saying that there is no systematic approach to small and medium-sized business, which in fact does not exist in the programme and a number of other provisions that have already been sounded by the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote in such order. May I have your attention, please? The first, according to the Rules, is about inadmissibility. The second is a proposal by the approval committee. If not accepted, accept as a basis. And finally, back to work on the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies. I'm going to put it to a vote in this sequence. The first is the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of Ukraine's draft Law on Ukraine's 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme. People's MP Pinzenika's project. [[13:58:19.]] For-136 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal. This is a proposal by the Professional Committee for the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2005, registration number 6147. Please vote. [[13:58:54]] For-29 The decision is not taken. One minute, the faction voted, basically, one faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party and I voted, so enough. The third is the proposal made by the Scientific and Expert Office to adopt the draft Law on Ukraine's Economic, Social and Social Development for 2005. Registration number 6147. Here comes the vote. [[13:59:40]] For -6 I now put to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, my final proposal: to return to the government the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2005 to deal with the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, as well as the relevant committees. Please vote. [[14:00:16]] For 225 Just a minute. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 88, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, faction of Communists - 59, SDPU - 0, "Trud Ukraine" - 0, "National agrarian" - 20, SPO - 16, Tymoshenko - 14, "Soyuz" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Centre" - 10, NDP, industrials, entrepreneurs - 5, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 11. One minute, I'm putting to the vote an offer to return to the consideration of this law. Please vote. Everything should be in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[14:01:06]] For 241 Decision taken. I am voting on the last proposal to return to the government the draft Law on the State Economic, Social and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2005 to work on proposals by national deputies, factions and committees. Please vote. [[14:01:38]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 98, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 1, “Centre” - 13, “NDP” - 5, “Deminicatives” - 0, “O” - 11. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. After the break, the draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2005 will be considered first. Please be in the session room. We will continue to consider important social bills.
