ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:59]] The 410 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Ivchenka Alexi Grigorovitch. Let's say hello to Alex Grigorovitch, wish him the best of luck. Let me read out the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Salmin Oleg Volodymyrovich, into the Ukrainian People's Agrarian Party. And in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Rudkovsky Dmitry Alexanderovich, as part of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Trudov Ukraine". Yes, respected national deputies, in line with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I would like to ask the distinguished national deputies to sign up for the presentation, and in the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. But before the parliamentary inquiries are announced, your peers, your acquaintance is informed of the results of our work at the December 16 plenary meeting, or yesterday. Thirty-three questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 11 laws were passed in general, four bills were adopted in the first reading, four bills were rejected, one bill was withdrawn, two were postponed, five were passed, and one draft decree was rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals: the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overturned by two laws, two laws adopted in a new edition, and one law has been repealed. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council on the grounds of refusal of the Kyrovograd Institute of Production to the Ukrainian Association of Blind Persons in the budgetary compensation of VAT. Mikhail POLANCHIĆI to the Head of the Supreme Council, acting as Prime Minister in the area of gas disconnection, electricity, braking of the introduction to the villages of bread and other essential goods in the Dnipropetrov region as a means of pressure on the electorate to vote on December 26 for Viktor Yanuković. Ms. KIROJANCA to the Head of the Supreme Council for the prevention of the receipt of ballots by members of the Secretariat. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister for the problems of providing drinking water to the inhabitants of the village of Highspoil of the Herson region and the need for financial support for the reconstruction of the existing network. Valery ACOPIAN to the executive duty of the Prime Minister regarding the inadequacy of the Ministry of Industrial Policy order of 9 December 2004 No 657 “On the creation of a state-owned enterprise, the “Palada-Izumrud Design and Production Complex” of the Ukrainian Law “On the List of Property Rights Objects Unprivatized”. Vassila TUSKA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to react improperly to the appeal of the Chilean city head of the Odessa region. Group of National Deputies to the executive duty of the Prime Minister, Attorney General, Human Rights Commissioner, to take urgent action to protect the rights of the Crimea Medical University team. [[RUBSKI, DZWADOVSKI, JUCHNOVI]] YEUGENA HYERNIKA to the Acting Prime Minister for the payment of arrears on November 2004 to officials of the budgetary institutions of the Ivano-Frankov region. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Herson District Administration, on the problems of the operation of separate sociocultural sites of the Berislav City Society of the Hersonian Region. Resta KLIMPUSHA to the acting prime minister for a situation that resulted from a gross violation by the government of pensioners' rights — residents of the population, who have mountain status, who are not guaranteed payment of the pension allowance guaranteed by the Ukrainian Law. The National Deputies' Groups to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence to try to bring the State Enterprise “The Black Sea-Avosian Industrial and Exploitation Administration of the Seaways” to a permanent financial failure and bankruptcy, the failure to execute the Court to re-establish the post of Head of the specified enterprise. [[SUSKEVICH AND OTHERS]] Peter DIMINSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Prevention of the Emergence of a Technological Emergency in the area of Borislav Lvivské region. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for Repayment of Remuneration on Wages since 1999 to the employees of the sugar plant of the Kirikowka city-type village of Velikopisarov district of the Suma Region. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for Recalculation from the State Budget of the Umman City Council of Aid and Grant Grants for 2004. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the irregularity of the increase in the value of urban electricity travel and the verification of the financial and economic activities of the company “Chernigus Trolebus Management”. Mr. Aleksandra CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the Mass Violations of Electoral Law by repeatedly voting for reinforced certificates on the day of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 in the territory of 214 constituencies. Jury PAVLENKA to the Attorney General on the involvement of the officials of the Donetsk District Council in the pre-planned provocation against public society activists “Time”. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for bringing to justice the co-workers of the Berkut unit and the heads of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Sumskia area for misusing the special forces and beating up civilians at the Kokpak District Court of Suma on 13 November 2004. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General for the commission of Kushnar's Eugen Petrovich a number of corruption activities. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of effective legislation by the Prosecutor's Office of the Vinnitsk Region and the investigators of the Zamostian District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk Region. Oleg GUMENUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of electoral legislation by individual officials of the Pervomayan region of the Mikolai region during the election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 and the inadequate response of the authorities of the Mikolai region to them. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for the criminal responsibility of Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Victor Zubczuk for criminal acts for the extermination of officials of the Johno-Frankow District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for reinforced certificates during the election of the President of Ukraine. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General in connection with his dissatisfaction with the response to the appeal of the All-U.S. Public Association of Ukrainian Officers regarding the illegal collection of funds for special accounts of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev in the form of services to the State Autoinspectorate. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, on the day of the re-voting of the election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 in the territory of 214 constituencies. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Karlovy Vulnerable Region of Poltava during the 2004 elections of the President of Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of the rights of members of the Bareznov region of the Constitutional Rights of the citizens of Lošin, Semenović and Koval, as well as on the measures taken to prevent the persecution of activists from the electoral headquarters of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. [[JULIET, RED, ALEXIUM, SIRCO]] Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, regarding the formal conduct of criminal cases by the officers of the department of inquiry of the Pecher district office of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General in connection with his dissatisfaction with the biased response to the results of the election of the President of Ukraine and the discovery of premeditated criminal cases by the Public Prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankov region. Anatolia Seminoga to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration, on the response to the beating of the photo correspondent of the Donetsk newspaper “Salon Dona and Bassa” Sergio Waganova. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Attorney General for the violation of a criminal case against an organized group in Lviv, composed of Miroslav Homjak, Taras Kozak, Igor Shurma, Oleg Sala, who prevented citizens from freely exercising their right to vote in the elections of the President of Ukraine on October 31 and November 21, 2004. Roman TKAČA and Eugene HYRNIKA to the Attorney-General for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens of the village of Guta Bogočan district of Ivano-Frankov region, which was violated by the State Administration. Mr. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misappropriation of electoral documents in District No. 77. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of the former head of the Central Electoral Commission, Sergio Kiwalov MICHELLA’S contact with the Attorney General about the criminal offence of misappropriation of electoral documents in the territorial constituency No. 80. Mr. Taras STECHKYV to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of members of the district election boards of the district constituency No. 83. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General on the offence of using unspecified electoral documents in District No. 181. Jury Shirka and Sergey ALEXIJUKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal responsibility of officials of the District Electoral Commission Nos.11 and No.170 of the constituency No.133 of the citizens of Fedor Radev and Mikola Abdullahev of the inhabitants of the city of Wozniesensk for the floor, the production and use of electoral documentation. Jury KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General on illegal interference in the electoral process and deliberate serious violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of oxidized ores. Mr. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Attorney General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, for the provocative statements made by the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine on the alleged use of electoral documentation to identify and prosecute his supporters from Western Ukraine. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General, National Council for Television and Radio Affairs, on the use of the legal response measures for the illegal cessation of the broadcast of “Study 1+1” in Kharkiv and Volinsk. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the referral to the Supreme Court of the prohibition of the political party, the Party of the Regions, for public calls for violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and changes in the boundaries of Ukraine during the political meeting in Severodonecko. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General regarding the criminal offence against the Montenegrin City Head and officials of the executive committee of the Montenegrin City Council for obstructing the activities of the National MP. Mr Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney-General on the involvement of the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the responsibility for obstructing the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, on official negligence and inappropriate response to a parliamentary appeal in violation of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Roman ZVARIČA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence against the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine. Vladimir MOJSIK to the Attorney General on the violation of the criminal case on the ground and the use of electoral documents concerning members of the District Election Commission No. 83 of the District Electoral District No. 83. MICHELLA’S attention to the Attorney General’s Office on the criminal offence of obstructing the exercise of electoral rights by the officials of the authorities of the estrangement zone, Mr. Chernobyl. Mr. KARMAZINA and Mr. CATHERINCHUKA to the Attorney-General for the violation of a criminal case involving the head of the Luhansk district administration, Mr. Alexander Efremov, for violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine. Mr. Taras STECHKIVA to the Attorney General for violating a criminal case involving the head of the Donetsk district administration, Anatoly Bliznik, for violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine. VALLERY TO THE Attorney General on the nonapplication of measures to objectively examine all circumstances of the case of unlawful deprivation of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens. Ms. Vladimir BONDARENKA and Ms. Lebedivsky to the Attorney-General on the facts of the massive violations of Ukrainian electoral rights during the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November this year. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of the commander of the operational company of the Road Patrol Service of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Volinsk region. Victor PINZENIKA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence involving the Chief of Correctional Colony No. 62 in Cherkasa. Mr. Tomenka told the Attorney General about the criminal offence of the fact of the floor and the use of a well-formed electoral document concerning the members of the District Electoral Commission No. 79 of District Electoral District No. 83. Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI and Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General for the violation of a criminal case involving officials of the Kirovograd City State Administration. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General for a criminal offence against the Chief of Depo of Zaporozhye-1 Station, Andrija Chuba, and the Chief of Staff of Leaders, Oleg Kulyavec, for obstructing the exercise of electoral law. Ms. JOURNEY CARMAZINA MIKOLI CATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence involving the head of the territorial electoral commission No. 51 in the Donetsk region of Viktor Kovalenka. To the Attorney General, Vladimir JAVORIY and Valerius Lebedyev, on a criminal case involving the head of the Kharkiv District State Administration, Eugene Kushnarov, for violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine. Vassila ONOPENKA and Boris UNSOPAL to the Attorney-General on the violation of effective law by officials of the Office of the State Service for Combating Economic Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Cherkas region and the executive authorities. Mr. Tomenka told the Attorney General about the criminal offence against the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of effective law by officials of the territorial constituency No. 78. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence of gross violations of electoral law in the polling stations No. 101, 102, 103, 106, 108, 120, 124, 126 of the District of Elections No. 49 in the Donetsk Region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics for Land Renting Disruption and Land Renting Unaccounted for with Renters in the Kirovograd region. Alexander KEMENYACHA to the Ministry of Finance for the financing of forest management, depending on the markings. Petra SABASUKA to the Minister of Agricultural Policy regarding the status of the Institute of Animal Engineering of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Minister of Justice on the illegal inclusion of “dead souls” in the voter lists in Suma and Suma County. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka and Mr. Jurija ARTEMENKA are under the responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Vasil Žuk for ensuring unhindered access to the terminals of the International Airport Borispil. JANUARY to the Chief of Staff of the Pension Fund on the illegal reduction of pensions following the recalculation of pensions to the civilian aviation fleet of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. To the Head of the Qualifying Commission of Judges of the General Courts of Kiev’s Appeals District, Vladimir DEMOJIN was brought before the judge of the Righteous District Court of Chernigov Olga Kashpur. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service for Corruption Abuses by Local Authorities and Law Enforcement Authorities in the city of Trostyanec Sumski district. [[BONDARENKO, JAVORISKI, DANCE, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] TO THE Head of Odessa’s Court of Appeal for Disciplinary Responsibility, Judge of the Odessa District Court of Natalia Baklanova. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Head of the Security Service to verify the report on funding from foreign sources of the candidate's election campaign for President Victor Yashchenk of Ukraine. Jaroslav KENJOR to the Head of the Supreme Court on the need for a detailed examination of the court’s decision concerning Ruslan Antonick. To the Head of the National Bank, Vladimir YAVORIYSKA for the cessation of further discrediting of the bracelet in the eyes of Ukrainian citizens, which is a frequent change in its design and size, along with changes in the heads of the National Bank, who want to leave behind a trail. MICHELLE KULJINSKI TO KYEWI’S MEN’S HEAD on the facts of gross violations in the handling and resolution of land issues in Kiev. JANUARY to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on housing security for the deported, disabled, third group of Svetlana Letifova. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service to verify the activities of an organized criminal group, which includes individual high-ranking officials of law enforcement and prosecutors. [[THROW, CARMAZIN, BILORUS, AND OTHERS. Total 10 deputies]] Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, Head of the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting on Cancellation of the Broadcasting License of the TRC "Ukraine" for gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting and the information reflected in the broadcast of public calls for violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and changes in the boundaries of Ukraine during a political meeting in the town of Severodonecki. Eugen HYRNIKA to head the National Stock Exchange Company Naftobaz Ukraine for the restoration of gas supplies to the state-owned company “Kalushské heat-electrico centrum” for sunbathing in the city of Kallus Ivano-Frankiv region. Oleg BILORUS to the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Bank of Kiev and Kyiv Region for the illegal maintenance of funds for special accounts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev from the owners of motor vehicles in the development of the State Auto-Inspection Services. Vladimir Yavorowski, Vladimir Bondarenko and others under the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the auction from the sale of licences for the use of the mineral water nadrama of the Boniface and Bath area. [[only four national deputies]] Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for failure to win the "Mikolayevska Small-Tonnesty Shipyard" contract for the purchase of a 90.25 charter fund for the "Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant" in part of the repayment of the employee's debt. Ladies and gentlemen, 80 MPs have been asked. Of them, according to the factions: "Our Ukraine" - 53, the Communist faction - 9, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Soccoria - 4, "Centre" - 5, "Centre" - 1, "Afterfraction" - 3. So there's only 80 MPs. Let's move on to the performances. On board, please show the names of the national MPs who are enrolled. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine After Rudzkowski, Valentina Seminouk will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Dear National Deputies! Last night, on the "5 channel" in the "Close Zone," Vladimir Ariev drew the attention of the entire population of Ukraine to the fact that there were records of specific abuses of senior officials in the falsification of 2 rounds of elections. It seems to me that the Supreme Council should address the law enforcement authorities today to limit the influence of these officials on the re-voting process. But yesterday in the same program, honourable national MPs, there were two stories that deeply concerned me as a national MP, I'm sure, hundreds of thousands of people watching this broadcast. The first story was four minutes of direct matte airing across Ukraine. Tens of thousands of people sat with their children. I'm sure, me, the person who took the "5 channel" as the voice of freedom, was ashamed to hear that it was from the "5 channel" that goes all over Ukraine straight mat without any. I'm addressing Mikaly Tomenka and the committee to give a legal assessment of this subject. I've been to dozens of countries around the world. I've never heard anything like it. This program was in the record, this is the first. If that were the case on the Surkiss or Pinchuck channel, I'd be turning to this rostrum to have their license revoked tomorrow, but I'm pretty sure it's the self-creation of journalists that need to be restricted. I'm against censorship, but I don't think we can allow our society to be crushed on channels. This is the first time. It's different. In the same story, another story was used when a person talks on the phone, talks about some amount of money, and then charges the Metropolitan Vladimir Sabadan, the entire Canonic Orthodox Church, because they've lost all morale, because there are bribes, because there are bribes that sell everything and everything. I am ashamed that in our country someone is trying a canonic church that has cared for and prayed for the sins of our people for a thousand years, trying to put it beyond morals, it is a breakdown not only of the state, but also of morality. I also appeal to the committee to give this a proper assessment. We MPs can't close our eyes on this. I'm talking to journalists, give Arya an assessment, it's immoral, we all go to church and baptize our children. He's the same. We have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u3	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u4	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! You and I got the draft budget for 2005. It is a shame that the suggestions we have made are almost unaccounted for. So the Special Supervisory Commission made its proposals and, by the way, at the same time, where we proposed to reduce the projected amount of money from coming from privatization. Regrettably, instead of taking into account the proposal, and the list of objects to be privatized, the Cabinet of Ministers did the opposite. The draft budget, which was presented to us for first reading, envisioned a budget full of privatization of 2 billion dollars. What were we offered to privatize? This is the Odessa Porting Plant, Ukratelek. And when we examined the Special Monitoring Commission, we saw that these are the most profitable objects, urban objects, objects that give the highest budget capacity, and the main thing is that in the last three years, especially in the Odessa Portal Plant alone, half a billion dollars have been sent to modernize it, reconstruct it, and befitting it for new technologies. And now this object is being put on privatization, which does not take into account the economic interests of the state. That's why I want to go to the Committee on Budget Affairs. To take account of the fact that, following consideration of this issue, a draft Act on the inclusion in the list of objects banned from privatization and the “Staff” and the Odessa Porting Plant was introduced, since the privatization of these two objects is contrary to the privatization law because the aim of privatization is to find an effective owner. The state is now an effective owner of these enterprises, an enterprise is profitable, a state has invested money, and today it is simply a crime in front of the future. And we're also told where to take the money to fill out the budget, so let's take a closer look at what the commission and the socialists in Parliament have offered. There are 30 holding companies, how they pay dividends, how they work, and not as we do today, that businesses don't even calculate dividends in the budget at all, and today we have the corresponding losses. I think it's not only going to be 7 billion, it's going to be much more efficient than these holding companies. I think that's the source of the budget. This is a proposal and a special review committee, and I would like the Budget Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers to take this proposal into account, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u5	Yes. Mikola Odynik, faction "Ours, where's Odynik? No, no, Odynik? Ah, there's Odanik, please. He's giving Mikola Tomenko the right to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell our fellow socialists that we're just as worried that Victor Yanukovic's team forged the election at night and did so with a lot of motherly words. And I don't usually justify journalists, but we have to say that the falsification that's been done and the conversations that confirm this usually have to be considered by the Attorney General's Office first, and then the National Council or our committee will join and analyze the stylism of the mother tongue. Because first we need to expose crimes and then analyze the style of these crimes. But if until recently we had a fundamentally important history of forging elections, I am today, in the name of Victor Yushchenk's Block, drawing attention to the fact that today Leonid Kuchma and his team are doing everything they can to prevent the voting. Today, you know that President Leonid Kuchma is not signing an appropriate bill that was passed in the Supreme Council. And today, it's threatened to print ballots, and so it's threatened to vote. The position of our faction is clear and clear: we require the President and the Central Electoral Commission not to wait for the President's decision and to start printing ballot papers not only in accordance with the current law at the bank-monetary factory, but also at the Ukrainian factory, because there is really a question that elections may not take place. If President Leonid Kuchma does not sign the bill, our faction will ask questions about the removal of Leonid Kuchma from the President’s duties in connection with the end of his term of office. This is the only mechanism that will prevent another election break. First and second rounds, the authorities broke the election because of counterfeiting, third round she wants to break the election because of not printing the ballots. So our position is clear: both the CFC and Leonid Kuchma, if they think of this people, must ensure what the Supreme Council has done. The Supreme Council carried out its historic mission in time. Now they have to provide the electoral process. Perhaps Leonid Kuchma would like to meet Putin at the train station to find out whether to sign the law or not. Because you know, Medvedchuk was driving, he didn't meet Putin. But I am fully aware that whether or not the station meeting is going to be, we are going to live in this country and provide the electoral process. He finally wanted to say that we are very concerned, that lately Viktor Janukovich has started to have a very bad time about living in Ukraine. You know, he's asking all citizens to collect 50 copies for his election campaign. And you know, looking at this poor, unhappy prime minister who's asking him to contribute money to the electoral campaign, he really wants the presidential election to be over, and instead of the "Poor Janukovic" TV show "Ukraine" we've been watching "Poor Nastya" again on TV "1+1."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u7	Vladimir Petrenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u8	I'd like to give it to Kruczko Georgi Korneevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u9	Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov is invited to the presentation. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, first of all, our committee supports today’s draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Commission to Investigate the Situations Related to the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Liberation of Satsuk from the post of First Deputy Chief of the Security Service of Ukraine. And I'd like to take it up today, that's the question. You have to make it clear that you have a dot. The other one. With regard to the publication of statements by the official factors of the United States of America, such as Mr. Ron Powell, the United States Congressman, about the election campaign of one of the candidates, namely, Mr. Yushchenk, from American funds, I request that the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Finance submit to the Supreme Council materials that would reveal how the channels of official funds are channelled to the United States of America and how they are distributed to Ukraine. I think that would be very correct, because the draft also introduced by the People's Deputy of the Gmiraeus on handling the matter. And the last. I have a request from the Defense Department colleagues to make such a statement. Speaking at a meeting of the Supreme Council on December 15th, Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin accused the Ministry of Defence of leading a campaign for presidential candidates, in paws, from power. In particular, according to him in Zitomir, such an appeal is carried out by General Kopanica and General Zabotny in Righty. In the Ministry of Defense, the information presented by the National MP was checked. It's not confirmed. The Armed Forces, as has been reported on many occasions, are out of politics, and they demonstrate their participation in the electoral process by voting. This was repeatedly emphasized in the electoral process by U.S. Defence Minister Alexander Kuzmuk. The army serves, not politicians, but the Ukrainian people, to whom it will never betray. This was also the subject of a telegram from the first Deputy Minister of Defense of the White Underworld. On December 1, a new school year began in the Armed Forces. Planned activities are under way, especially in Zitomir, where methodological meetings are held with psychological officers. This is a long-planned action. General Kopanica, referred to in Carmazin, is on duty in Germany from December 12 to 17, General Zabotny visited several garrisons to check the status of weapons and ammunition. Preparations for re-voting are being made in the Armed Forces with strict compliance with current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u11	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare the Lycan Lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u12	Please give the floor to Deputy Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u13	Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u14	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm surprised at this constant position of deputies from the faction of "Our Ukraine": they come out and cry from the rostrum to all of Ukraine, which was a forgery in the second round. Honorable fellow workers, and in the first? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout, I'll call you three times! What, there were no counterfeits in the first round? If you're honest, decent, then let's break the question that the counterfeiting was on the first round. And then let's re-election if you see that your candidate is so popular. There is such support. In my opinion, these changes have been made by the law on the characteristics of the vote on December 26 violated the rights of Ukrainian citizens who do not have the power of December 26, really to come to the polling station and give their vote for any claim. And you insist that justice does not triumph over this anti-constitutional norm. And they all refer to some kind of forgery that can be reintroduced. But what kind of falsifications can be made? There is no executive power, there is no president, the heads of administration have already crossed to our Ukraine, or to your Ukraine, half of them are scared, and they're buried in the burrows. We can see that in the session room of our Parliament. Those columns of economics and Kuchmina's politics, which have always claimed that we're all good, now, like the red mice, they're running through other factions. It's so vile, I'm saying for everyone from which faction no one goes anywhere, no one goes anywhere. Betrayal always remains a betrayal. But I am addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Do not speak, for much depends on you. Here's the whole folder: and today's newspaper "Today" number, and to the Human Rights Commissioner, and to me personally, and to other MPs, there's a lot of talk about people not being able to vote on December 26. And if your will, your intervention, I think these changes would be made. And you're in the past when I was breaking that question, so you said, "Well, we all voted in a bag, and you're guilty." No, I don't want to be guilty. I voted for the package, but the heroes of Ukraine didn't get all of them -- I didn't get them. So I'm asking you to take this the right way: responsiblely, in your interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u15	Dear national MPs, one minute. I'd like your permission, as my last name was mentioned, to pick up a line and tell Alexander Masenko. I would ask you not to insult me. That's the first one. The other one. [[Let me tell you, when you scream, you show your manners.]] The other one. And I would like the honourable national deputies to ask your political anger not to come after me. I work for Parliament, and the main thing for me is trust in Parliament. Anything else I'm willing to hang here, on this flag for the entire Parliament. And I have no temptation to receive any rewards. I had a 300-year-old St. Petersburg medal before that, and it worked for me. There was nothing more. And I'd like to ask you next time not to do that. And if you're following closely, I said yesterday that there are a lot of complaints coming to the C.V.C.A. and we need to solve this problem. This requires the will of the Supreme Council. Let's be mutually tolerant. Thank you. Yes, please, Leveko Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u16	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u17	Alexander Valentinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! Less than two weeks are left before the bankrupt clan’s corrupt criminal authorities go into oblivion forever. The People’s Revolution won a sure victory over political banditry. The authorities themselves are aware of this. They are already packing suitcases, moving stolen money abroad, and burning documents at night that prove their criminal nature. Today, this authority behaves like the invaders of World War II, retreating from Ukraine, the invaders burned Ukrainian houses and destroyed factories and factories, and a powerful Ukrainian gang tries to complete the ruins in the country before ever leaving the stage on which national history is made. Provoking, slandering, lying, discrediting opposition forces is all that's left of cheap government propaganda. In the last days, the remaining electoral headquarters of the overpowered candidate and the media have launched a provocative hysteria campaign against the leaders of the People's Forces coalition, particularly against Yulia Timoshenko. Authorities are systematically distributing dirty materials that sow international hostility and cynical lies, as if Julia Timoshenko allowed herself public expression, which degrades the honour and dignity of the Russian population, the Russian-speaking population, the inhabitants of the individual regions of the East and the South. I am fully responsible for all this absolute lie, the dirty technology of power, aimed at discrediting the opposition forces, the dissension of Ukraine, the oppression of civil strife and the artificial creation of a political crisis. I claim that Julia Timoshenko has never, under any circumstances, spoken such nonsense. Timoshenko's position, the position of our faction and the opposition forces in general are clear and understood -- the entire people of Ukraine, all Ukrainian citizens deserve a better fate, a rich life in a truly free democratic state, no matter the language they communicate and the places of residence, nationality, religion or political sympathy. Humiliation and insults are the technology of power, not opposition. The opposition forces of Ukraine are fighting criminals who hide in government offices, but they will not allow themselves, either, to say a bad word about Donbass miners, the Kryubas, the farmers of Clothing and Hersonians, or the shipbuilders of Santa Claus. We are one nation, one country, and we are living together in this country. Dear National Deputies! A few days ago, an international independent medical corps concluded that Victor Yushchenka had been deliberately poisoned. The government wanted to kill the people's candidate. The whole world was terrified of this message. Yet the authorities have not repented, and today it continues the information poisoning of Ukrainian society. It manipulates citizens’ minds and organizes new and new provocations. I am addressing all initiators and performers of dirty technology, including Leonid Kuchma himself: gentlemen, be amazed, it is impossible to fight against your own people because it is impossible to break or cheat; stop today, because tomorrow will be too late for you, every crime will have to be answered for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u19	Olujko gives his word to the national deputy Zarubinski. He'll be followed by Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u20	Oleg Zarubinsky, a democratic platform for the NDP. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The self-preservation instinct has pushed out into the outer orbits of internal-political processes in the clan state to try to create for themselves sovereign zones of self-involvement in the form of autonomous or isolated territorial formations and thus secure yourself, either for a time from being responsible for all crimes against the people, including the falsified elections. The exploitation of the myth of breeders and breadwinners of the ethnic, religious and even cultural diversity of Ukrainian society is not a very convincing arsenal of numbing millions of Ukrainians who have suddenly felt the people. The Ukrainian economy is proving its ability, first and foremost, by its national dimension. Not everyone seems to know that low-cost or low-cost Donba coal is now consumed exclusively within Ukraine, nor will it replace bread to some of the island’s southeastern autonomy, and the high profits of the metallurgical sector are caused by favourable price developments in world markets and are, unfortunately, temporary. Obviously, the miner who daily risks his life in production, given the lowest level of protection in Europe in the domestic coal sector, does not even realize that the left part of the government payments he receives is sitting in someone else's pockets, and in federal terms this path to the work pocket will become even longer, effective mechanisms to protect the rights that have been violated even more distant. Ukraine has now taken place as a constituency, as a unitary state. The Ukrainian community, the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian statehood within today’s territory have been festering our history for centuries, from the exodus and failure of the princely era. The glorious and unattractive milestones of future generations, the tragedy of Chernobyl, the recent achievements of the Ukrainians in the Olympic arenas, the unique brothers of the Clique are equal to any citizen of Ukraine, and this is the guarantee of our future. We can't help but notice that these separatist powers in Ukraine are clearly giving away a foreign shower, and we are witnessing attempts to implement the neo-Imperial dream project, the ancient, as in good-natured Ukrainians, whose consciousness is in no way willing to accept the obvious geopolitical reality of the sovereign Ukraine, which, today, is perhaps a decisive step to become a truly independent democratic social assembly state. And that's how Ukraine will become, despite trying to build all sorts of decorative and self-separacy barriers, and that's how Ukraine will flourish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u21	Yes, please, the Politit passes the word to the Humiri, the Communist faction, and he will be followed by the Cossacks of Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I wanted to say three things, the first colleague recently said that the 5 channels had published records that spoke of the falsification of the elections. That's certainly scary, but I'm concerned about another question: where did these records come from? How did they end up in channel 5 of Ukraine? This is a mass phenomenon, there is no law in the country and it is made “orange”, this tradition has continued. You know, yesterday a colleague spoke and talked about how he admired that Cliché Vitaly was not afraid to raise an orange flag in Nevada. Well, I don't know, maybe the oranges scared the Americans as much as they did. They set the Americans up so they hate orange flags. Why should we be afraid? And this is what they have intimidated in Ukraine, putting out lists of those who vote against them, threatening everyone and everything, that is a fact. Those who have committed a coup d'état today are simply agile, you know, the same "5 channel" reveals with pride that there is an orange discount in Zitomire for those who wear it. In shops for those wearing orange symbols. It's a direct bribe to the electorate. And that's what they're bragging about, and they're proud of it. Second moment. What's happening is happening to the United States of America's money. I have introduced a bill to establish a commission. Who should be interested in creating such a commission? Victor Yushchenko, if he's clean. And if you vote against the establishment of such a commission and you don't want to understand it, I'm sorry, I'll call you American Hallows. Vote for this commission. And third. What's going on is in a horrible anti-communist hysteria. A few days ago, a fellow socialist spoke and gave an amazing statement, saying that Communists were worse off than Americans. You know, logic just surprises me, it's like saying apples are better than French. But I don't require a logic colleague, I don't need humanitarian training, as far as I know, he's not going to be a logic teacher, he's going to be a Ukrainian Minister of Science and Education. But what happens in the country when a coup d'état occurs when Fascism comes to power, always those who exercise fascism to power begin anti-communist hysteria. And I'm proud that the fascists are taunting us. Thank you for calling your defender Communists a true Democrat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u23	The word is Michael Kossov, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u24	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, dear compatriots. It is very difficult to perform after such performances as these were before me. Because it's people who've already failed, they've just fallen apart. But I want to make a very nice, normal statement that we have been entrusted with reading by students, teachers, electorate of all the universities of Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsky, Ternopil. So I'm reading. Dear friends, at the end of the fall, we experienced a great feast of unity, which with its energy of love overcome many of the regional differences that still separated us. By upholding freedom and justice, we have drawn close, and our special qualities have suddenly ceased to be a cause for mutual mistrust. The mayan has made us better and better. And Ukraine has become richer in its variety in our eyes and in the eyes of the world. Majdan has brought together youths who do not want to carry the dust of ancient prejudices. Today, it was simply to be grateful to Kiev and to all who made this miracle of connection. We need to pick up the estaphet and spread it further, not allowing anyone to separate us. Each region has special gifts that can be generously shared with others. In particular, the people of western Ukraine have been able to preserve the tradition of the worldwide celebration of Christian festivals. That's why we, Galicina students, invite our colleagues from higher education institutions and schools from East and Central, North and South Ukraine to celebrate Christmas together. This will be an all - Ukrainian action from January 6th to January 9th. The students of the so - called colleges are willing to receive up to 10,000 at home. students and high school students from all named regions. I think it's going to happen that this is just a macabre fairy tale that has struck the whole of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u25	Yes, dear colleagues, the time taken to the talk is exhausted. Those who wanted to speak and didn't speak have the opportunity to implement themselves at 13 o'clock at the Miscellaneous. Please refer to the name Karmazin. One minute to reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u26	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor because as the head of the Party of Protectors of the country, I have been accused of misappreciating the questions that stand and are being addressed by the Ministry of Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, why is today the Minister of Defense not working for the National Deputy of Ukraine? And that's not what the Defence and Security Committee is interested in today? And I think my voters are interested. And today I express their will. And I'm saying that any correspondence that's going on here today, both Cluey and the head of the other headquarters, and the other, is unacceptable. Why would you let that happen? You're conscious. What's more, I proved it, and yesterday Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich approached me and said that I had given the command that we were not involved in politics. Thank God, if that's the case. So far, Odessa and other information is completely different. And they drive around the army, and they donate gifts, etc.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u27	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. You've had more than a minute. Dear colleagues. The speeches, the announcements of requests and the speeches by the national deputies are completed, and we are moving on to the issues of the agenda. The draft law on the disclosure of public authorities and senior officials, registration number 2082, is being complied with. The chairman is absent, then from the committee head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u28	Dear colleagues. I want to present my position to the committee on this bill. We have one difficulty here that I have to tell you about right now. In view of the different circumstances to which the committee is less involved, the draft law was drafted in 2002 and this situation is, of course, a reflection, since life has moved forward and some changes have taken place in both the country and the information legislation. This is the situation we need to take into account when we discuss the bill. The idea of the bill is absolutely correct and legitimate, because it is that the vast majority of the authorities of the state and local executive authorities fear or simply do not want to inform citizens in this case, tax payers of what they do, how they do and how far ahead they use their budget. The idea of the bill actually uses the experience of other democratic countries, where there is no problem of getting any information about any form of activity, except for the secret information that takes place before the summit, ending with the President's administration. The only restrictions on receiving such information are the limitations on classified information or confidential information, and the second limit is the amount of material. It's a very large amount of material, and it's supposed to pay the minimum rate of money so that the government official can make a copy, for example, of the city's budget project, which usually takes up enough volume. And that's the cost. If a large number of citizens, for example, would like to go there to the city administration of Kiev and get the Kiev budget project, that is the cost of money and the local government system. So these two warnings are contained in the law. The idea of a bill that every public authority has to issue its ballots in these ballots should be published in the press all the costs that the public authority has allowed during its activities, and this should be carried out and come according to the State Committee of Statistics, where it should contain information on the expenditure of budgetary expenditure, on the expenditure of non-budgetary costs that have taken place, on the size of the salary, on the number of car transports and so on, we believe that this is generally correct enough and correct, because today the absolute majority of citizens do not realize how their costs are spent, the absolute majority of citizens do not know why, on the basis of what money is bought by expensive cars or, let's say, some special transport or mobile phones, or some other public officials of the highest or lowest level. Similarly, the bill provides for a more stringent formula for the responsibility of government officials to publish information about themselves. It means the mandatory scope of the publication of biographic information and the mandatory declaration by senior officials of their assets and incomes and a broader context. You know, it's so historic that we have a fashion for government officials and heads of state to be poor. And if you were interested, you know the income statements. We have, in principle, and Leonid Kuchma there barely survives with his wife because she declares a constant small number, and Yanukovic barely survives, and other officials declare enough of the money they live for. There's two problems. First problem. Of course, we can't force them to write other numbers, but it's a problem and a political ethics, including when these people would have to declare that they have not only money, but cars, apartments, or what they would have to do. For this bill to be adopted earlier, for example, article 23 clearly foresees the obligation to publish biographical data on officials, the facts of convictions for crimes committed, in the case of convictions, a date of condemnation, an article, a species, and the extent of punishment, is a mandatory standard of law. And we wouldn't have a discussion, for example, whether we should print Viktor Yanukovich about our past life or not have to print. That would be the norm of the law. All right. The general position that we have next, in today's situation, we need to take a more thorough approach to this issue and, let's say, obviously, the ideas that are in the law, or we need to implement the new edition of the Information Act, the Law on the Enlightenment of Public Authorities, or sit down and offer Sergei Petrovich to the Chief to work out, taking into account the situation that has arisen. We see no problem if we accept it in the first reading, but we still have to work actively.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u29	Thank you. There's a question. Please sign in. On the board for three minutes. Insomnia. After him, Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u30	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! We all know that there are a number of publications on the budget, at the expense of the State Budget. A number of publications are available for local self - government budgets. If you read them, for example, in these elections I saw that it was all turned into Mr. Yanukovich's agitation papers. And then I'm like, "Wouldn't it be worth it if you didn't think that budget money should not just be published by bragging and so forth, and then turn all these organs into information sheets, where all the decisions, decisions, expenses, expenses, what you've been talking about would necessarily be printed?" This is the first question. Is such a thing appropriate? I have, by the way, passed a law in the past in a new calling, a bill that is appropriate and how this is regulated in the world. Whether it is budgeted to praise the authorities for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I answer to Boris Bespalom that the bill takes his idea into account to a large extent, because the publication of the newsletter is foreseen by every public and local authority, but with an exclusive list of 15 positions that the local authorities need to report on what it has done in part to accomplish its work. their obligations, financial obligations, other obligations, and so forth. In principle, it's really a general line to be built up to give up the founding and direct funding of district, district administrations and thus a small amount of money to be spent on these ballots, where it's only to inform you about the use of funds, not to tell you what a good head of the administration or the district administration is. Thus, Sergey’s law regulates the obligation to provide information on such matters. What the authorities did, but the problem with the fate of the district, the district media. the subject of another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u32	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u34	Please turn on Mishura's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u35	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Mikola Volodymyrovich, well, you've given the committee's position correctly on this matter. I just don't care, I want to ask you why by illustrating one or the other, let's say you give the examples one-sided, that's poor Janukovich, poor man there, and why don't you talk about Yushchenka? He's very poor, too. He had one trailer, his daughter had nothing to teach him, he was at the expense of the National Bank. I mean, here we go, I would ask you, so to speak, why is this done? You don't have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u36	I don't think there's much problem here, Valery Dmitrovitch. Peter Mikolaiovich has financial problems as well as other politicians. I think we should take into account the responsibilities of the highest officials. As it will be, for example, Peter Simonenko Prime Minister and Victor Yushchenko President, I will call their first names, and as long as Kuchma and Yanukovic associate themselves with the authorities today, they occupy the highest positions, I think they are the best examples for people, because when I heard that Viktor Fedorovich is in trouble and asking for 50 copies to be handed over to him, and that the administrative resources are not helping him, I was almost late for television yesterday, because six cars were taking him to the former Všerbicka mansion and the city center was blocked. So when the highest officials are crying, of course, we should be paying attention to officials, and I think that for the time being, the opposition representatives, let's let them be less critical of how they become flawed -- we'll be critical of more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u37	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please sit down. But I know what it is, but there's no time. Yes. Let's take 15 minutes to talk, get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u38	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština More and more, for example, in Kirovgrad and elsewhere, the practice of public hearings of certain issues has become more common, but unfortunately, it has not yet become a common phenomenon. Such hearings most often refer to social and domestic issues, less socio-political issues, but there are instances where the thoughts expressed during public hearings were completely ignored when decisions were made, including the sale of Oblenergo and thermal power plants, the setting of tariffs on utility services and so on. In other words, the level of public participation in decision-making is minimal, and sometimes zero, it would be desirable for citizens to be informed about the activities of public authorities and senior officials not formally, but that the issue of openness of power would be constantly violated. Today's reliable and complete information on the internal structure of any government body, its assets attached to it, the cost of its activities, is virtually not available to ordinary Ukrainian citizens. I have dozens of letters coming to my address where citizens are asking about the Government's administration of the affairs of the President of Ukraine. Why did no media ever provide accurate information to average citizens about the existence of this government? Why even the latest audit materials of the Court of Auditors, the use of budget funds by this office has become secret. Such a situation is extremely undesirable. As a result, citizens are unable to give proper assessment of the activities of state authorities and political powers that exercise power in the state. It is generally concluded that the existing State legal practice on the provision of information to citizens does not meet the standards of a normal democratic state. I think that the proposed bill just provides for corrective measures to be taken to correct the problems that have arisen in providing information on the openness of public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Yavorowski Wolodymir, behind him, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u40	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov It's gum. Dear colleagues, first of all, what I want to say about this bill, that it is indeed done to the Chiefs on a highly professional and technological level, that it does not give rise to any objection. The other one. The legal framework that covers this bill is super important for Ukraine, because we have to make it clear that at the 14th year of independence, we have actually moved away from some of the achievements of 1992, 1993, 1994 in the opening of our society, we can obviously conclude that it has become even more closed, double, and if you want, it is immoral, and the bearer of these things is primarily the existing authority and the figures that characterize this power. Because of what he has planned for this bill, Sergey Golovatius is very important. But when you read the bill yourself, and you find it has to be introduced since January 1, 2003, you are inadvertently thinking about a certain retro, and that the bill is very, very late. The subject that we have is of course important, and we'll never take a step towards democracy until we have the entrenched and the work of the higher bodies of our authority, which the Head is counting, and I think there might be something else to add. But let's say I'm pulling information out of the Internet that I, the person who's involved in politics and the national MP, I didn't know anything about. I think it's the first time my voters and yours have found out. What about this recent period of government debt in Ukraine increased from 62 billion in November 2002 to 86.7 billion in December 2004. So that's 24.7 billion dollars or an average of almost one billion dollars in Yanukovich's government each month. We're with you, and it's not Janukovitch who's going to pay these debts, it's going to be paid out of the pockets of people who pay taxes, and the private man knows absolutely nothing about it. Or an example from another sphere. I've been bombarding all the institutions with MPs for about a year to find out how many my President has residence in this poor poor country. And you think I found out? It's all closed. Now the President is re-publishing the decrees under the heading "secret." As a result, I am convinced that this bill must be voted on. And ask both the Chief, and the deputies to work on it, to clarify it. Such a bill is very much needed by Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Mironenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Swanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u42	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill in its first reading, because the problem is very relevant. Such a law is strictly necessary. But it is very important to provide for a specific responsibility for non-compliance. Article 31 provides for disciplinary responsibility, as well as the possibility of criminal, administrative responsibility. But we know that many laws, including the law of citizens, are not being implemented. And there is usually no real responsibility for non-compliance. I therefore suggest that the second reading should be more specific by amending article 31. Article 5 provides for ways to publish information, including the provision of information on a fee basis. The pay base may not be available to many citizens. Article 4 states that information must be complete, true, accurate and factual. It is indeed a necessary norm, by the way, that it must also be included in the Presidential Elections Act, because, for example, it is now very unclear, including the illness of the candidate to President Yushchenko. Some argue that he has been poisoned, others have been poisoned, others consider him to be a fraud, the pre-election technology of the Yushchenko team, aimed at encouraging voter sympathy and attracting some additional votes. There are also such absurd allegations that, to surf, there is the hand of Moscow, Russia, these are Russian intelligence services, surfing, poisoning with dioxins and so on. But I think it's precisely the reason that this position is in conflict, which is that there is no real information. We have decided that the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine exists to establish an investigative commission. And I demand that the President of the Supreme Council and all those involved report information before the elections, because this concerns the presidential candidate, so that people know that it is: indeed a great deception, in order to deceive people, to come to power or to poison them. And if you've been poisoned, you've got to find out more quickly. The United States has even defended the pro-American candidate and requires that the problem be addressed as quickly as possible and that the perpetrators be punished. However, the Commission of Inquiry is not working on purpose. And Lithuania's point of view is that it doesn't have to be on the table before the election that it doesn't want Litwin to know the truth? I propose that this bill be supported in the first reading and further elaborated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u43	Please, Lebedivsky, the faction of our Ukraine, will be followed by Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u44	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! I would like to inform you that, according to my competence, the European Integration Committee has carried out an analysis of this bill. As a member of this committee, I would like to say to you that it is important to note that the public authorities and senior officials are subject to a wide range of European law documents and acts by the Council of Europe. I think you'd be interested to hear what kind of documents these are. This is, for example, a final act of the European Security and Cooperation Council, a treaty establishing the EU and a declaration on the right of access to information, which is Directive 9546 of the EU, the European Parliament and of the Council of 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, is also a political declaration on the media in society and resolution 428 of the Council of Europe Advisory Council on the Declaration on the media and human rights. It is also a convention on access to information and public participation in decision-making and access to justice. Our European Integration Committee expert on this bill has shown that it meets European law and Ukraine’s obligations to the Council of Europe, as well as established European practice on public policy information and public institutions. With that in mind, this bill is considered to be acceptable in our Hall and voted in general, but at the same time, I could not ignore the replica of the previous MP who spoke of poisoning the Presidential Presidents of Yashchenka, and I would like to say that he doesn't see what everyone sees and hears from doctors from different countries, different countries point to the fact of poisoning. So I would recommend that those who do not see or hear the glasses be removed so that everything that is known to everyone else is also known. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u45	The word is Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Mr. Head's bill is extremely important to the new Ukrainian society, which Ukraine has become after what the people have now done in the squares and rallies, which are being strongly rehearsed today, but the people can't win, they can only do the will. The project envisages the creation of opportunities for citizens and legal persons to freely obtain information about public authorities and their officials. Every citizen, every legal person, is guaranteed the right to appeal to the relevant public authorities for information on their activities. Article 2 provides for the bodies and officials to which this law applies, including the Supreme Council and the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine. In this connection, I will remind you of the decrees that I issued, the decrees for the release of Satsuk Vladimir Mikolaiovich from office as the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who was also an accomplice. Exactly under the same heading, 1472, was the decree to assign Dire Igor Yuriovich to the rank of an extremely authorized 2nd class envoy. So this is Satsuku's decree with the phrase "Publication Is Not to Be Done." I say, "Can there be such orders?" Where we are in the Constitution or in laws, we have given the right to adopt decrees that have the phrasing: publication is not subject to publication, secretly, and so forth. All of this must be absolutely open to Ukrainian citizens. And the second question. We have from the fact that we have closed information so far, we have in the Supreme Council for People's Deputies that we can't know where it's being spent and why we're going to spend the various funds I've looked at, it turns out that we still have MPs of the first and second vocations who get paid here like we don't work. Perhaps you will be interested to know that they are paying money to former National Deputy Yakovenko Alexandro Mikolaiovich, former head of the Anakiyev City Council. So the division of an existing body doesn't go to the court about giving a previous job, and it gets paid 50 percent, taking into account all the allowances and allowances that the working national deputies receive. The same is true of Moisienko Volodymir Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the executive committee of the Mining District Council of the People’s Deputies of Makeevka in the Donetsk Region. And so many examples. We're handing out our payroll fund, and we can't even get information on that. Therefore, this law must be passed quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I put to the vote the draft Law “On the Information Openness of Public Authorities and Senior Officials. [[Registration number 2082]] Adoption of the law in first reading. Please vote. [[11:25:52]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law on a special regime for investment activities in the “City of Uzin” development is under consideration. [[Registration number 4562]] Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. Reports Rudkovsky Dmitry Aleksandrovich. Please. Prepare Demiochin from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u48	Honourable National Deputies, a draft of Ukraine’s special investment law in Uzin’s priority development area, has been designed to reduce the migration rates of small towns and towns of military service. Involvement of investment in the priority manufacturing sector to create new jobs and employ citizens who are liberated in connection with the reduction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm sure you've all heard a lot about the ancient city of Uzin in connection with the nuclear disarmament and elimination processes in our nation of strategic aviation complex "TU-95". I also remind you that Uzin is the Fatherland of twice the Hero of the Soviet Union of Astronaut Pavel Romanović Popovic. A few stats. There are 13,000 people living in the city of Uzin. Then, according to the latest census of 2001, there are 16,000. The population declined as a result of military garrison reform. 37 percent of the population is made up of pensioners - 4.8 thousand. Of these, almost a thousand and a half are military pensioners. I remind you that there are only six thousand and two hundred working people in the city. Three thousand of them don't work. The main reason is that there are no jobs in Uzin. Unfortunately, the area of the airport complex, which has great potential for investment capital, is not being used. Today, a special regime of investment activities has been introduced in dozens of small cities and towns in Ukraine. These are mostly cities where depression is caused by the closure or reduction of production in various industries. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are no priority cities where depression is caused by the reduction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces or the conversion of military objects. An analysis shows that the absence of legal mechanisms to restore such small cities and military towns in new socio-economic conditions has had serious consequences. I remind you that small cities and towns associated with the reduction of the Armed Forces have their own specificities. Under certain circumstances, conversions of military objects, such as those of the United States The Osina complex, the availability of qualified and organized personnel, can have a much greater impact in the introduction of special investment regimes. Economic accounts show that the introduction of this bill will not reduce existing financial revenues to the budget from. activities in the very city of Uzin. I ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u49	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. I would like to say that the Committee supported the bill and recommends that it be adopted as a basis. But the meaning of my speech is not specific, for example, about Uzin, but conceptual at all. What, then, do we need to do with special economic zones and priority development territories? Do they benefit the country's economy at all, or do we take the income part of the budget? The whole world enjoys a mechanism for special economic zones and territories of priority development. We are being criticized for having separated many areas, priority development territories. Last year, the Committee was held, and I ask you not to cling to the words of the special economic zones. So we held a number of visiting meetings specifically to examine how activities are carried out in special economic zones and in priority development territories. We were in Nikolaev, we were in Herson, we were looking at the shipbuilding industry, we were in Donetsk, we were in Yavoreva, and we came to the following conclusion: yes, we need to manage the process of opening investment projects in special economic zones and in priority development territories, so as not to allow duty-free import of goods, so that we do not make a gateway to the income part of the budget, but we cannot abandon this mechanism at all. The thing is, when they say we've given you a break. We have given no one anything, we have given people the opportunity to invest, and we have given people the opportunity to work. That is to say, the income portion of the budget has only benefited. Let me give you a concrete example: the same Yavoriv, we saw when using the special economic zone mechanism, a number of small-scale industries were developed. Nikolaev, we've seen. When the factory was standing and today they have 12 ships standing in the building and more than 10,000 people are getting paid. That's what we gave people. And in conclusion, I want to tell you: let's give Uzin the opportunity to carry out an investment project, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich. Let's move on to the discussion, or we may vote, please, Chernovetsk, for Mironenko. Yes, I saw Chernewsky in the hall. Then, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished radio audiences, "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk. I want to tell everyone who's listening to our broadcast, what economic zones are and why Ukraine needs them. Well, first of all, the investment climate in Ukraine can only improve in one case, when citizens respect you, when there are less cockroaches, any officials who take bribes from you, and then there will be investments. That's the first one. Second, the investment zone necessarily involves a number of components: that's the incense that's in the head of the investment zone, that's the hole in the budget, which assumes that all the taxes that respectable grandparents pay, they steal directly from shops and pharmacies and carry the incense into their pockets. That's what the investment zones in Ukraine are. There's a lot of them in Donetsk. One day I had to call the head of an investment zone that's actually operating on billions of dollars. There's a smudged boss of that. Selhozoz. Some guy. What's it called? The head of the village council, right? And he doesn't even have a secretary because he stole everything. And he gets paid by a cop, and no one lives in this area. We can help Uzin, at least by finally considering the draft law on the elimination of benefits and privileges to all the nemesis who have received them throughout the history of an independent Ukraine. From the armored Mercedes, planes, helicopters, all kinds of shit, these holiday homes for them, special hospitals, just in the light of the invention of power for the people who have it. You'll see how they ride! Do they need investment zones? Needs to be, 'cause there's gonna be a new pile of armored Mercedes over a million bracelets, and a million destitute grandmothers who are gonna starve to death, right? And the incense will eat from it. That's why they're all liquidating. Liquidation. These investment zones need to be eliminated, cursed, here. And you have to give an assessment of who's been leading her. The band is cursed! Do not let God give you such a law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u53	Please, Mironenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u54	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Crimea, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, the Company faction will support the bill on first reading, but of course work is required. For many reasons, support must be given, including the restructuring of the Armed Forces, the reduction of unemployment, the increase in production and so forth, and, of course, income to Gosbudget, local budgets. And of course, I don't agree with the words "pagan," "not incense." Yes, in my statement about three months ago, I said that, indeed, corruption impeded the normal functioning of the economy, including special economic zones, the areas of priority development. Often mayors, heads of administration require bribes from investors. As a result, efficiency is not available. Much is being done in special economic zones in priority development territories. This does not mean, however, that this is a good thing that is being applied worldwide, and not only in the Communist China, which has experienced a 25-year steady increase in production, an increase in the standard of living of the people, as opposed to our capitalist path, but also in Western countries. Why does the United States insist that we do not have priority development territories, special economic zones? Because, of course, the West is interested in being a colony or a semi-colony, a commodity supplement, so that we don't have advanced technologies, so that we don't develop production and so on, so that we can dispose of harmful products and other things. And that's understandable to everyone. In this regard, we must probably conclude on the policy of our independent policy of the State of Ukraine. We remember, regrettably, that the same monetary policy was maintained during the period of Yushchenko and the Government of Yushchenko banking, and at present. Why? So is privatization, et cetera. Because the United States insisted on monetary policy, insisted on liberalization, insisted on privatization, insisted on price leave, which meant raising prices, tariffs, which hit the economy and people. Therefore, of course, we must ensure that the State is not a person, that I have no claim against any candidate, that I have no personal claim, that I am only in the position of the State to direct a person independent of other States, that I mean any State to pursue the policies of the economy of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine and that I do not follow the advice of the United States or any other State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u55	Please, National Deputy Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to overcome the consequences of the downsizing of the Armed Forces. And I'm going to say no, it's not a shortcut, it's not a reform. What's happening and what's happening right now is the destruction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. For the past two years, especially under Yanukovic’s leadership, the destruction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has taken place. Well, they've been consulting with other countries, of course, how to destroy them. So that's what I'm counting, and they're in a very bad situation, really. Protectors of the Motherland who live in Uzina. But I really want the whole territory of Ukraine from the West to the East to the North to the South to become a priority area. And to do that, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for this bill, which I believe must be thoroughly redrafted, although there is a lot of positive, that it doesn't have to be written. In article 10, a list of benefits from taxation of investment entities in the priority development area of the city of Uzyn. Item 12. Apply the benefits from making an enterprise agreement with the executive committee of the Uzin City Council. Thus, benefits from paying certain types of taxes are offered to invest in entities before they invest. What do you call it? I don't call that a corruption proposal, so all of these laws have to go through expertise and are very serious, as is being done in the Russian Federation in many countries. Moreover, even the names of experts should be unknown, Why? Because that's the standard that's set, and then they're going to destroy the economy. It seems to me that such standards should be eliminated from this bill. A similar order of special investment regimes in development areas is already in place in the 8th districts and in the autonomous Republic of Crimea. It's already a terrible hole in the hole that stores all the waste here from the West, the economic zone of Donetsk, the two billion-dollar hole goes in a year, and we say, we're fed, and we're such a terrible hole. Hence, this law must provide for all possibilities for such holes to be avoided. Also, we have 11 special economic zones in our tax system, and where is the analysis of each? Where did the analysis of what the State had received, and what did it lose? There's no such analysis. I'd like us to adopt this law when there's such an analysis, I'll ask you to re-read the first reading to direct this law because of conceptual flaws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u57	Please Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u58	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters, here one of the speakers said that these zones should be eliminated, I think that we should eliminate commercial banks, he heads one bank, they harmed Ukraine more than the areas we provide assistance to. Second, Uzin, here we are talking and our MPs have no idea: what is Uzin? So let me tell you, fellow deputies from Odessa and around Odessa. Uzin was the pride of Soviet and Ukrainian aviation, strategic bombers: TU-22, TU 85M were on duty over the Mediterranean Sea, in other oceans, in the air, it was the pride of aviation. These are people who, it doesn't mean to go to Mercedes and the number that says "Pravex," and what is taking off and landing this bomber strategically and flying away for a few hours in the mornings of the world's ocean are deserved people. And their fate was that they were abandoned today. The troops have been cut short, gone, and those who have served who have earned decent rest can neither get a job there nor can their children, nor can anyone. Therefore, I believe that we must have the honour and dignity of supporting this bill. Another question that I would like to address. Oligarchy around Vladimir. Well, don't get in the way, Sergeant, get in there, then, come on, buddy. Go drink boiling water, go away, do not stir, do not stir, I ask you. Comrades, help him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u59	Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u60	Comrades, I want to stop. I'd like to add some time. The oligarchs surrounding Viktor Yushchenko at all the rallies that they were plowing? Is that why they don't perform today? The rich will share with the poor. The day goes by, the second, the week, no one shares. You lured tens of thousands of people into the square today, and you share them with them, and they leave the square, and they wait for you to throw them a piece. My friends, comrades of the electorate, no one will ever share with you, because the rich man sleeps and sees that he will be richer tomorrow. To become rich, they must deceive everyone, overthrow every Ukrainian citizen, and they are preparing for it. Don't believe the conspirators, go home, they won't give you anything, and they'll never give you anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u61	Please, Deputy Minister of Economy Romanyuk Sergei. No one called your last name. And I'm not interested in the company. I'm interested in the names of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine cannot support this bill, because today there are a number of instruments that are legislatively designed to address socio-economic problems in cities like Uzin. First, a special programme of conversion of former military objects was adopted last year for the period of reform of the Armed Forces and other military formations. This programme is funded by the State Budget, including the 2004 budget, and is fully funded for this year. And there are already a number of pilot projects in the city of Uzin, including at the expense of the State Budget. Secondly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine this year has adopted a National Small City Development Programme, which provides a whole range of tools for local authorities to address these socio-economic problems. The city of Uzin falls under the category of small cities. Third. The government has drafted a bill called The Conversion of Military Objects. There is a special article in this bill, article six, entitled “Solving the socio-economic problems of former military towns where military personnel and members of their families were left free from military service”. This bill will apply to all military towns. And finally, I want to point out that the analysis that we have in the areas of priority development, especially in small cities, depressed cities, unfortunately, there is no such tool as a special investment regime. Despite the fact that benefits are provided to such areas, this area is no longer more attractive in terms of investment. So there's a lot of doubts about investment coming into this city and solving socio-economic problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, let's vote. With motive, Kruglov and Karmazin per minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I would like us to be not only politicians but also experts when we make our decisions. And it curves the soul and the Ministry of Economics. It knows very well that special or free economic zones are not all bad; they are normal zones that function. And I want to say that in most of our territory where we want to make free zones or special economic zones, these are non-working enterprises, these are job shortages and there are no taxes at all. And that's why when they're telling and misleading us that it's going to be a tax loss to the budget, it's different than a lie, you won't tell, because non-working businesses don't pay taxes. But when we create, and we invest there, we create enterprises there, first of all, jobs and taxes from individuals and citizens, that's the first thing that's going to develop the whole territory. And for example, in the construction of the Mikolai district, I want to say, go and see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u65	Please, Karmazin, and we will vote. Dear colleagues, put your hands down, I will not give to anyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm asking you when you're going to put a question to the vote, put it in an editorial to remove article 10, paragraph 12, because that's the concept of the law. It says, "The benefits provided for in this article have been applied since the subject entered into an entrepreneurial contract with the executive committee of the Uzin City Council." [[contract]] So there's not at all 200 thousand, or 500 of those that were planned for some kind of activity, but there's going to be benefits. What benefits? Imported customs - 5 years, value added tax, income tax. I mean, you have to delete it. Then I can vote with a clear conscience, because I will understand that there will be no such conceptual wrongdoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u67	Thank you. I am addressing the author of Rudzikowski and Demjochin. Do they agree? Demjochin, does the committee agree with the proposal? Do you agree with the offer? Yes, thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, I therefore place a vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law on a special regime for investment activities in the priority development area of Uzin, registration number 4562, with the deletion of article 10, paragraph 12. Please vote. [[11:51:20]] For-174 There was an offer for a re-read. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:51:45]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, it's not about people, it's about how the factions vote. Show me the factions, please. "Our Ukraine - 17, Ukraine - 25, Communists - 50, Social Democrats - 28, National Agrarian - 3, Socialists - 3, Ukraine - 15, Block Timoshenko - 4, Union - 4, Center - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 6, Labour Ukraine, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Non-Fractional - 12. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Lists of Property Rights Objects Not Subject to Privatisation" is being complied with. [[on mining and mining enterprises]] Project registration number 5043-11. Reported by national deputy Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Demyokin and Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u68	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I really don't want you and me to feel the way you felt today, the Chechnya widow who cut herself. I explain why. Let us consider the chronology of this matter. Look, on 9 April this year, you and I passed a law on the privatization of Ukraprom. I'm with my colleague Karmazin, along with my colleague Gmyraeus, Turkinov, Borschevski before. Please don't do this nonsense. And now we feel what the weight of our button means. Now we've lost control of all these enterprises. Why is there now a bill on tariffs and so on and so forth? Because we put the horse behind the counter. Why? Because there's no Code of Overtures, and if there's no Code of Overtures, then what can we talk about? But we've all privatized. Who's against it? And which clearly runs the line as it is, I think. It's mostly Communists. They said no such privatization. Who voted? Those who now wish to return to this question again. 100 per cent of socialists voted. A hundred percent! 50 percent "Our Ukraine"! And now they say, "We were wrong." My dears! Too much road error. Actually, there's always a spoon on the way to lunch. After that, Karmazin and I fought back, we weren't heard, we only got 100 votes. So he immediately paid a visit to the law that we are currently considering. But he hasn't been looked at in eight months. Now they've picked up from the archives, politically speaking, so to speak, and they say, "Grow, you're the author, and you go ahead and report." I mean, the steamboat's gone, I had to think. And I think, until we adopt the Code of Overcomings, and until we adopt the law that is required to nationalize the metallurgical complex, it's a waste of time, it's an empty matter. We need to work systemically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u69	Thank you. From the committee. Rudzkowski's last name wasn't there. Sorry. I remind you again, Rudzkowski's last name wasn't called. They'll come from you, they'll say. Demjochin, of the Committee on the Management of National Agriculture. Please prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! The Committee considered the bill at its meeting. The bill provides for the inclusion in the list of facilities not to be privatized, the Croobaswichprom enterprises and the Krivoriz Iron and Steel Unit. Decision of the Committee: The Committee decided to adopt the Act as a basis for second reading and as a whole. The Scientific and Expert Office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u71	Thank you, please, from the Privatization Commission, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u72	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the special review committee, which took place on June 30, 2004, decided to maintain the data. specified document. We were based on what, in accordance with article 5 of the Law on Privatization of State Property. Enterprises that work with explosive materials are not allowed to privatize. But I want to bring back the story of this question. When we were building a holding company and we're looking at this at a special review board meeting on a number of occasions, and this was in line with the President's decrees prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. It was a violation of the Law, which I call the Privatization Act. Because we can't create a holding company today, and if we create a holding company, we shouldn't have to privatize it. I want to say that all of these actions took place at a time when the President had a special mandate to instruct, that is, these Laws, then the decrees had the power of the laws. And all the secrets of its creation, they went only beyond Parliament, and no one even knew which part of it was in the hands of a state, which part was in the proper private structures, because they didn't do that in 2000. Today I want to say that I did not understand whether Mr. Gurov offered to accept it or not. I'm reporting on the decision of the Special Supervisory Commission, but I want to say that Deputy Semenyuk has brought to trial the question of the illegality of the creation of the State Holding Company and the removal of this facility, based on two factors: that there is a Privatisation Act, and from the fact that if Ukraine sells such objects, we will be subject to international sanctions for enterprises that today, such as explosives, work with explosives. That's why I don't want there to be international sanctions against Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please, Mironov, get ready for Yavorowski. Mironenko Victor Andriyovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u74	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine supports the position of Gurov. Well, at least I think I'm personal. The company is generally in the position of nationalization of such industries, and this is known to everyone, and it is known that the Company is drafting a bill on nationalization. And I think that those who come from public positions will support this bill. But as a deputy, personally as a deputy, I would like to say that I have taken the words of a member of the Gurov, who is truly concerned about what is happening in the country and in particular in his hometown, in my hometown. Privatization has destroyed everything, virtually everything, only the Kerchen Sea Trade Port, which is now being privatized by the Minister of Transport, and something else has been privatized, has been dismantled and privatization must therefore be discontinued. Secondly, I agree with Deputy Gurov, who is in line with this plan, in fact, strategically, we need to address the problems systematically. We can pass some laws, they won't work. You can see what's going on in our room. The good pressure makers who are really experiencing the economy, and they're even starting to catch up with each other because they're in conflict with prices, tariffs. That is why I reiterate my support for the statement made by Deputy Gurov on the systemic approach. The nationalization of strategic industries should be ensured, price and tariff policies should be developed. If strategic industries are in the hands of the State, then it is possible to establish affordable industries for all sectors, I stress, for all industries, for all vital States and the people of Ukraine tariffs, prices. And then we're really going to have an economy. Otherwise, we will only speak, speak and speak from the height of this parliamentary rostrum, and the people will not be better off. That is why I turn to the so-called factions of “Our Ukraine” and socialists. Everyone has the right to make a mistake. Every deputy and every faction. But I'm asking the socialists, they made a mistake, and our Ukraine made a mistake. Please support the direction that the Deputy Gurov has expressed. That is, the nationalization of strategic industries must be ensured. Otherwise we won't do anything useful. Well, about the banks. The same part of the banks may have to be a large part of the banks to nationalize, then a banker who is constantly popping up and living through the economy of the people, and he is still speaking and obstructing economic development. Then such deputies will not even be in the Supreme Council. And now he's got a lot of money, he's got a private banker, he's buying people, he's lying to a lot of people, poor people, he's still mocking the communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Alexandrovich, a moment. It's break time. Let's do it if we agree to such a compromise. We'll work all the time, but we'll start different for half an hour early. Is that okay? Please, Javorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, then let's define.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkva, Rava-Ruska, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you this question, which was still warm, which was before, I would just like to add some very interesting information for you and our voters. These are the records of our House of Auditors, especially the Doctor of Economic Sciences and the Head of the Chamber of Valentin Simonnka. In 2003, all 11 special economic zones, which occupy 11 percent of our territory, amounted to 1.8 billion dollars. The budget was only 1.3. This is a killer figure that speaks of the effectiveness of special or free economic zones. The question that we're dealing with and the one that hurts, I'm sure, not just Guru, but every honest soul in Ukraine, is obviously that the period of this government, the government of Yanukovic or the government of compromise, call it what you want, whether it's compromised, I'd call it, first of all, it happened, really, it's just going to be a privatisation boom, a seasonal sale of all the state we've had. I'll give you some specific figures. During the current Prime Minister’s privatisation, a total of 9.2 billion dollars was donated to the state. This, society, is much more than in the days of the three previous governments taken together, Kinaha, Yushchenka, and the Desert. And by the way, it's a very interesting detail that I'm going to give you that in this time of government work at. So the property was sold out for $9.2 billion, that is, $1.7 billion. This is the sum equal to the increase in the last year of Renata Ahmtova's wealth. Very interesting details that would have to guide us to meditation. Yesterday, I want to thank Valentina Semenyuk, to bow down to her that yesterday, just at the request of the guards who started calling here, is an attempt to privatize Azmol, the only company that actually produces ink. It's strategic, if you want, even the enterprise with which you're doing this! He was first pulled out of the general pipe, from our general oil system, and now ready to release him, literally, for sale. And what we did yesterday on the committee headed by Valentina Seminyuk to stop this process. But, you know, we can't throw all the time, literally, because it burns there, it burns there, it burns there. Because the authorities today do act like seafarers and capture everything that is bad, especially those who give profits to Ukraine. Because of this bill, we need to vote, not just support Gurova, but support Ukraine. "There are so many of us that we cannot overcome." But it's between us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u77	Please, Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Solomon will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Ukrainian people, you've already stolen the Krudprom in the active voting of the "Regions", "Employers", "Deminitiate", and others, others, others, others. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Vadim Mikolayovich Gurova very much for the fact that, as a true poacher, he stood up for these positions. And then they wouldn't listen. I convinced you here, and some people shouted, and they didn't even think that if you scream, take your head to the committee. Your chairman of the committee held the bill for nine months and did not bring it here. How many times did Gurov scream from the place he came out here and say, "Put in a bill, he needs to be accepted!" And now you say, "Let's take it all at once." But it could have been accepted nine months ago and prevented from happening. And now I want to ask, what does our people pay taxes and colossal wages and pensions for the Ukrainian Security Service, the employees of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office? For what, I ask?Oh, my God! I'm asking the new Henprosecutor of the old man who is assigned to the Supreme Council, Mr. Piscoon: what if you're not doing anything there?Oh, my God! You didn't do anything to make it. Before we sold out, we sold out. So, honourable national deputies, we will now adopt this law, we will not accept it, it will not save anything. I understand why Gurve told you that. It won't save anything. Mr. Chechetov continues to say that the second day after the election, Odessa’s driveway will also be sold out. It won't be sold, Mr. Chechetov, never Odessa's port, because it's a government property that's bringing cash into this state budget all the time. And to the question of Crucifixion, Crevistals, I'm sure Victor Yushchenko will come back -- and they will be re-reproved, I'm absolutely convinced of that, but we were able to overcome the veto with you, and we could overcome the "Creakings" with you. We got 280 votes. Where's everybody else? Why didn't it happen the way it did yesterday? They were afraid, afraid all the time. What were they afraid of? Economic interests. Those who call will not be rewarded with anything else. That's what they were afraid of. Let's call things our names. Let us make known the names of those deputies. No one resigned after seeing the people of Ukraine bereaved. So, of course, I'm going to vote for the adoption of the law in the first, second reading, but unfortunately, I can't change the general situation right now. Let's just accept the Code of Nadra for the next week, we can accept it, we can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u79	Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u80	Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Dear colleagues! As a member of the Communist faction, I declare that our faction will support the bill on exclusions from the list of enterprises that are privatized, just two of these enterprises that are key to Croobswichprome and the iron combination. But what I want to say is that this is a palatial decision, and I agree with my colleague Burov, who stressed a very important thesis on the need for further development and adoption of the Nadra Code. And I want to devote the rest of my time to this very question. Nadra, dear colleagues. It's from God. Plants, factories, steamboats are created by human hands. This is where the privatization tent took place. The earth, it's from God, but the fertility of it is renewed, the influence of future and past generations, and the modern generation of restoring and sustaining its fertility is our influence, but the pervading effect is that from God and it can't be restored. It belongs to the past, to the present, and to the coming generations. Moreover, we use what was created by the creator almost 2 billion years ago, including the iron ores of the archeic age, which we are talking about now, including discussing the bill. What is above all belongs to all nations, not just those in the national territory of which they are present today. I want to emphasize that again. And it is only the controversy of the creation of borders, borders between nations and states that it artificially destroys both the truth and the objective fact that all that lies above belongs to all nations, and to the past generation, and to the modern generation, and to the future. So those who understand it more or less normally create a fund to support future generations are the kings of Saudi Arabia, that is, and so on, but it has not reached our people and our nation. So this is the only thing I want to say to the conclusion. Someone had a roof for privatization. The argument is only about who and under what conditions will privatize what is in the top and is now being used. There are so many of you, you have to be treated.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u81	Question completed. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. A black man with a minute's motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, Cherniak, the faction of Ukraine. When mining companies were created, they were formed by cello, in shadow, by decrees, and it was not clear who owned them. There, about 10 to 15 percent of the property and assets were taken by owners, and the rest of them were operating, so they were planting their people on financial flows and practically owning them. So in this situation that happened, it's appropriate to exclude these companies from the list that are not privatized, let them pay at least for using these companies. That's why I think we can vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u83	Thank you. We will take your advice and vote in favour of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on List of Objects and Rights of State Property, which is not subject to privatization. Registration number 5043-11. Please vote. [[12:14:34]] For-189 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 74, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 54, SDPU - 3, National Agrarian Party - 5, SPU - 13, “One Ukraine” - 0, Timoshenko Block - 3, “Soyuz” - 10, “Trud Ukraine” - 6, “NDP” and “PPU” - 8, “Centre” - 5, “Deminicatives” - 0, “Afterfractional” - 8, please, Semenuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u84	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The question is very, very difficult. And I think we should still listen to it, if we don't have enough votes now, let's re-read it. I agree to go through all the factions, to explain to people what the whole point is. Because, believe me, right now, the European states are asking us the question that the holding company that was created was created with a violation of the law. And companies with explosive materials should not go into privatization. The violation was committed in 1999. Let's fix it. We wanted to fix it during privatization, let's find the right mechanism, even though we're sending it back for the first time, and I'm willing to go through all the factions. What's more, I've got a court case going on right now. I'd like that very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u85	Yeah, there's Karmazin's proposal to go back to voting. Who supports this proposal? Please vote. [[12:16:36]] For 213 I propose to re-read, please vote. [[12:17:01]] For 221 Yes, indeed, Roman Mikhailovich is right to see hungry and a little less moving. Well, come on, one more time for the first reading. [[12:17:36]] For 224 Let's see the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 82, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 57, Social Democrats - 3, People's Agrarian Party - 13, Socialists - 17, "One Ukraine" - 1, Block Timoshenko - 11, "Soyuz" - 8, "Centre" - 5, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Trubic Ukraine" - 1, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, "Afterfractions" - 14. I don't understand why, Vadim Mikolaiovich, why "the only Ukraine" is only one voice when there are more of you there. Yes, dear colleagues, let's listen to the author of the project, who says: "Our vote won't give us anything." So, uh, I'm sorry. Yes, the bill is being rejected. There is a bill on the rehabilitation of disabled persons in Ukraine. We agreed, another 10 to 15 minutes, and we're going to go to the Vulnerable. A bill on the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. in Ukraine, registration number 5699, Suškevič Valeriy Mihajlovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please don't leave the hall, the rehabilitation of the disabled is a fundamental factor in public policy. Please remain and vote. I see they're already collecting cards. Don't pick up the cards, please! Dear friends. Please, listen, please. The rehabilitation of the disabled is practically what makes it possible today to return to the human being through appropriate measures to live. And today we can talk confidently about the existence of the foundation of the national rehabilitation network, which is the National Complex for Early Social Rehabilitation of Disabled Children, the All-Ukrainian Centre for Professional Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons, the National Centre for the Paralympics. Olympic training and rehabilitation of the disabled of Eupatoria Actually, dear friends, there are now 470 rehabilitation institutions with different profiles of ownership and management. The National Programme for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities 2000-2005 provides for the establishment of rehabilitation facilities in all cities, with a population of more than 50,000. persons. That's why we, with our respectable colleague Nightshank Mikola Petrovich, have developed this law, which aims to introduce a systematic approach to the organization of rehabilitation of disabled children, disabled children, to ensure the complexity, consistency and future of multi-purpose rehabilitation measures from the State, to ensure coordination and interaction between institutions of various known subordination of forms of property. The main components of the law are, the bill is to license the activities of rehabilitation institutions, to certify the means of rehabilitation of serial production and a very important factor, I think I'm hearing disabled people, it's a typical program of rehabilitation of disabled people, which will determine the guaranteed number of rehabilitation measures in the form of rehabilitation services if disabled or disabled children are given free of charge, taking into account their actual needs depending on age, sex and illness. The bill also establishes state social standards for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. It is certain that this bill will be drafted to provide rehabilitation facilities for various prominent subordinations of different types and forms of ownership of equal conditions for the performance of their activities. A major factor is the provision and implementation of compensation payments in cases where a state rehabilitation program cannot be provided, and a service or rehabilitation tool is purchased by persons with disabilities. Then it's compensated. Dear friends, the financial security of the law will be carried out at the expense of the State and the local budgets. There are no substantive objections on the part of the scientific and expert department and the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask you very much to support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Shall we vote? Yes, thank you for supporting the friendship. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration number 5699. Please vote. [[12:22:58]] For 274 Thank you. 274. Decision taken. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (registration number 4607). [[on the interests of older citizens]] Cibenko reports Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. You and I held parliamentary hearings last December with the agenda "On the state of security in Ukraine established by valid legislation of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection of veterans of work." And to implement these parliamentary hearings, the committee and I, in particular as the author, have amended the Procurator's Act to include citizens whose interests are to be represented by the Attorney-General's Office and the prosecutor's office in places, the elderly, that is to say, two words are added, but this has a very significant impact on the situation, especially in today's conditions. I'm asking everyone to support this bill, it's extremely important to the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u89	Please, Mikhailo Alexiyovich, from the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u90	Comrades, this law falls within the framework of the Constitution of Requirements, in the interests of an elderly person, where the prosecutor is proceeding to protect her interests. So I'd like to support you. The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u91	Then please listen to Karmazin's offer and we will vote. Yuri Anatoliyovich's microphone, please. And it's written down for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u92	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of us, apart from those who are currently obstructing the session, is receiving a variety of letters. I get about 50 a day on average. And many of them question the failure of the prosecutor’s office to protect the rights and interests of citizens, including persons with disabilities, of the elderly. I immediately found out about Crimea, even sending an assistant there to see what was done where, unfortunately, elderly women were asked to sign a contract and arrange for it. Therefore, relying on the prosecutor’s office to represent the interests of elderly citizens in court is absolutely right and appropriate. It must be accepted. And I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Vote. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. [[on the interests of older citizens]] Registration number 4607. Please vote. [[12:26:34]] For 197 Masenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, this bill needs only to be supported in the sense that we have people who are insolvent. Whether it is the prosecutor’s office or the court’s office, it is necessary to pay everywhere, and there is a need for humiliation. And I'm just surprised that Deputy Carmazin is speaking out of every question that he's asked to discuss, who he thinks should be thanked for what he's not thanking. But I don't understand how to put those words on the public when he voted and said that against the general supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Constitution was changed. So where is he, that Carmazin? He's double, whether he's Carmazin or he's where he's against the people. The audience shows that he's in favor, and that you're looking at Odessa, and that he's still occupied, and that he's never going to be occupied. Whether it's bought or not. Kotovsky released Odessa in four hours when he informed me that I was four hours away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Yuri Anatoliyovich, after we vote, I will definitely give you a replica. Come on, let's vote. Please support the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act, registration number 4607. [[on the interests of older citizens]] Vote. [[12:28:32]] For 225 Raise your hands, who hasn't got it? A lot. Yes, please, we vote. [[12:29:03]] For 236 I'm going to the profile committee, can we take it as a law? Can we? We vote in general as a law. [[12:29:31]] For 238. Thank you, the law has been passed. Please, Carmazine's microphone, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm very sorry that some people are so illiterately accusing the authors of the constitutional amendment, because Michael Alexiovich and I were the authors of the constitutional amendment. And I'm proud to be the author of that amendment, as well as the new version of the prosecution law. I understand that the level of education, education, etc. Some people aren't allowed to read or learn anything, but I would ask if someone in this room would want to blame the Party of Fatherland's Defenders on something or on me, I would ask you to understand that besides showing that you don't respect yourself and our constituents. About Odessa. Yes, it's occupied by the criminal regime, with your support, because today it's run by the former First Secretary of the Round Party, the mayor of the city, the richer man himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, as we have agreed with you, we are moving on to the question “Variable”. Those who wish to participate, please sign up. Please explain. 60 minutes on "Razne", please, Loboda, get ready for the Czervetsky. Mikhail Vasilovich, as I understand it, gives Simone the word. Please, Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich, the Communist faction, behind him is Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u98	Respectable voters, respected colleagues. Simonenko, the Communist faction. In analysing recent developments, I would like to point out that during the presidential company in the country, the global political and socio-economic crisis continues to escalate every day. It is provoked, channelled and deepened by the political forces of the legalist centrist movement and, in fact, by criminal and oligarchic clans of interest in large capital t fighting for power and property. The internal explosive situation has also been severely exacerbated by the fact that the alleged fight against external factors has acquired a large-scale geopolitical significance. In fact, it is the sudden unceremonious intervention of the United States, including the financing of the electoral campaign of a certain candidate for the presidency, with the aim of bringing to the highest public office in our country a puppetist, thereby confirming its geopolitical influence, making Ukraine a satellite, a semi-colonial economic accessory and a military forpost in the centre of Europe. Ukraine has, in fact, become another test site for the realization of the American doctrine in affirming the strategic interests of the United States at any point in the globe and their aspirations to world hegemony and domination. The nature of the so-called “orange revolution” has been shown to be a series of actions with already tested revolutions in Yugoslavia, Georgia and now Romania. At the same time, Ukraine's pro-Western political forces are in union with the oligarchs. With oligarchs massed and cynical, using dirty polytechnologies in the American script and under the American directorate, they create an illusion of some kind of struggle, they try to hide their present inner self, their vicious struggle against their own people. In addition, in order to divert voters from the real political struggle, the clans have dramatically intensified and daily fuelled anti-communist hysteria. The new turn of anti-communist hysteria is a legitimate continuation of the fight for Ukraine. However, we believe in the wisdom of our people. In our eyes, the President-in-Office of the United States is trying to transform his depraved regime into new personnel, thereby retaining power and property in the hands of large capital, finally establishing a dictatorship, total control over the country and the people. Communists warn the people of Ukraine that such developments can end with the establishment of a fascist dictatorship, seriously threatens the country with deadly inter-ethnic, inter-ethnic and inter-religious and social conflicts, autonomy and regionalization, international prestige and authority. On behalf of my party comrades, I declare that the firm and principled position of the Company will not be affected by any of the rival groups of the ruling elite who will come to power - Communists will remain loyal to the labour people in all circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u99	Thank you. The Chernobyl faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u100	Dear President, distinguished radio audiences! I want to say that I am proud to be witnessing the "morning revolution," because this has led many people to raise their heads not as slaves under the communist fascist regime, but as people who are able to defend their rights. And what today, Peter Nikolaevich, I am ashamed of you. Yeah? You've aged, you've looked better and you haven't remembered the President in a while, now you're starting to remember when he's leaving. Well done, President, that he did not use force and did not give an opportunity. You'd probably be happy to have them gunned down. It's the people who came out. And thank God that these are the people of the new formation, not those who no longer represent the Communist Party on the scale that it is today in the Supreme Council. You're a lot of people, but you've got so few voices that people, even grandparents, have figured out what you're really imagining. That's the first one. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Morda's fat, not mine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u101	Simonov, I'm making a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u102	The main thing is that the Communists block the law that benefits are denied. And you're good at it, Peter Nikolaevich, you know. Keep this law, then I'll say you're decent people. Here. Most of your friends are normal people. You use them for your own purposes. What kind? It's unknown. [[N o M e s s a ……]] This thug who came out here to do the same thing. Is that a normal thing?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u103	If your conscience were to add to that, I'd sell you a Mercedes and give it to you! You don't have a conscience. You don't need a Mercedes. That's the problem. There are a number of social laws that can restore pensions that you do not support, which Adam Ivanovich. I have passed 99 laws, and the Supreme Council stands for me. It's the elimination of all the drugs and privileges you've hoped for by coming to power, that you'll continue to ride on special vehicles and go to special hospitals and be treated in special sanitariums. Where is your concern for the people? You don't know what. You're a destabilizing faction in Parliament. The worse the better. Do you remember any oligarchs and you don't live in oligarchs?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, calm down. There are civilized forms of answers. Ivan Sidorovich Boki gives the word Rudzikovsky Mikola, a faction of socialists. Prepare Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u105	Dear National Deputies! I'm addressing all of you. Let's talk half a ton below and discuss the political situation that we now have in Ukraine. Now, society is electrified, on the one hand, people in Eastern Ukraine are standing on their cloaks, on the other hand, in Kiev and Central Ukraine. And everyone is paying attention to the position of the Supreme Council. It seems to me that the accusations, both on the one hand and on the other, about fascism and the word "fascism" should not sound out of the mouth of a Ukrainian citizen. Our nation suffered so many millions of deaths, we had a great tragedy, destroyed settlements in Ukraine. We would not want this to happen again in Ukraine. And the repetition of that, perhaps, is only when we're leading the situation to extremism. We need to lower the level of opposition in society. We have to do this one thing -- we have to do it in an honest and democratic way, we have to do it in 26 numbers. We must all ensure a normal transparent vote. Indeed, there are some shortcomings that have been addressed by the Supreme Council’s Human Rights Commissioner. That we should perhaps also review and amend legislation in the coming week, so that all Ukrainian citizens vote and thus there was no reason to blame the elections for having taken place in a non-democratic manner. I am convinced that the candidate from the opposition has every chance of winning the election, because the vast majority of citizens have already formed their own position. I'm sure Monday's debate will be definitive. And then there's only one thing that needs to be done to ensure that the elections and the vote count are normal, so that we don't repeat what we had in the last election, when we threw the ballot, and the counterfeiting wasn't just on the second round, the counterfeiting was on the first round. I'm the first secretary of the Czernigow General Socialist Party to tell you that two percent of the votes we've made on the records that power has stolen from us. No one was responsible for this. I believe that it is necessary for law enforcement authorities and prosecutors to pay attention to this and to ensure that before the re-voting and re-enlisting of those who faked the first and second rounds of the election. Then we would not have the situation we have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u106	Please, Lukyanenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, prepare Gračov Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u107	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor and Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, distinguished voters. Ukraine is experiencing an extremely important period, since in 13 years of independence the oligarchy anti - Ukrainian authorities have formed, and now we have just the moment when the crisis between the anti - national thief government and our people has become so severe that it has to be resolved. The first period of the election and the first round, and then the tour, were associated with gross forgery, when the authorities applied the entire system of power from top to bottom, media, administrative pressure, the use of their official position, and so on. That's the grossest violation. Now, once again, the authorities put Yanukovich out and now they want to continue with the same violence to win. Janukovic himself invented to introduce himself to the electorate, as if he were from opposition. It's just funny. The head of the Government, who is responsible for the sad situation of Ukraine, led by the same government. For that price increase, for the deterioration of the overall situation of life, this man wants to be seen as an opposition. It's totally not logical and ridiculous. Next, in order to intimidate the electorate, he speaks to his own Ukraine, which is forming some kind of group, almost armed troops, and these troops have to go somewhere from eastern Ukraine to western Ukraine, and scare something. But unless this authority formed itself, Kirpa - Minister of Transport formed 110 pairs of trains, and these trains traveled from one end of Ukraine to the other for agitation as a government candidate, for the same Janukovic. And now, little is being said about the Yushchenko attack and the attack on Julius Timoshenko is being prepared. I think that the people who have shown their maturity in the areas and in Kiev in the streets who have finally felt their responsibility for the fate of a nation that has woken up and knows it is the bearer of government and it can change power, appoint a new nation that will not allow this nation to bring about the provocations that this government is planning. I'm very sorry that the communists, who talk so much about the interests of the people here, actually help the same government and they sold and served here in the highest order. I'd like our work as the opposition to be with the communists. Not against them. But you vote for power and you support that power. I'm so sorry. I think the electorate is in on it and
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u108	Replica, no last name, please, please, Grachev somewhere near the Storm Games, the faction of Social Democrats, followed by Lechchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u109	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The political crisis in Ukraine during the election of the President of Ukraine has raised the world’s attention to the situation in our country, as the crisis has gradually turned into a deep social one. We should point out that this concern is being used arrogantly by the supporters of one of the presidential candidates to carry out illegal actions against local authorities and their officials against ordinary citizens who have other views. By calling themselves a democratic opposition, they ignore the fundamental principles of the Constitution of Ukraine and international law regarding citizens' rights and freedoms in the struggle for power. Without waiting for the final results of the elections, these pseudo-democrats have already begun to establish their order in areas where Victor Yushchenko has won the most votes. The daytime task was to punish their fellow countrymen, who for one reason or another did not support Yuschenka’s candidate. In particular, his supporters in the Lviv region and some other Western regions of Ukraine violate articles 21, 24. 36, 68 The Constitutions of Ukraine guarantee the right to express their views and beliefs freely. It is forbidden to attack the rights, freedoms, honour, dignity of the human being, and have begun to persecute, on political grounds, their opponents, who are members or sympathizers of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The motive is that our party supported another candidate. In the settlements there are black lists of people who voted for Yanukovitch or who are guilty only of prepaid the newspaper SDPU(o). All of this is very much like the medieval witch hunt or the struggle of our society against the enemies of the people, which is by no means inherent in a democratic society. Such actions also provoke the position of the coalition of the so-called National Democratic Forces of Lviv, created on the basis of a party of members of the coalition of people who, at the meeting of the Lviv District Council, demanded that members of the SDPU(o) step out of the party and dissolve legally constituted party organizations and factions on local councils. Don't forget, gentlemen, you're fighting 10,000. Libyan Social Democrats, but you can get a response of over 400,000. members of a party from all over Ukraine. All of this provokes indignation and protest against all members of the U.S.S.A. who are always trying in Ukrainian politics to defend democracy, the rights and freedoms of their citizens, tolerance and harmony in society. Democracy is not a saviour, authority is legitimate only when it is acquired in a legal way. This principle of SDPU is guided by its own political activity and calls for all political actors in Ukraine to act in this way. According to the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, this statement has been announced. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u110	Please, Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u111	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The wave of Ukrainian democracy spread very quickly throughout the white world. And everyone saw that in Ukraine, honesty and legality were completely different concepts. And that's why they say it doesn't smell like it. The pro-nationalist opposition crossed the line, forgot about the laws and the Constitution. Everyone should stand before her at a standstill. The Supreme Council should only work in "Our Ukraine" mode. And how can we assess the statement made by the so - called legitimate president that if we fail to win, everything will be stormed. What are the brothers and whom are they taking? And I think this is the team that stormed successfully in 1991, so what? Why, then, are the people of Ukraine not pleased with the consequences of their storms that have been gathered on the area of Independence? That's probably not where we're going. That's not what we need to talk about today. Where were you in 1999, when, really, the whole Ukraine rose? Then you're the people you called? And today you call them "friends"? If you gentlemen were really friends and national fighters, you would really think for the people. You don't care that Ukraine's economy is completely destroyed today, and you don't care that almost all of Ukraine is shut off from its gas supply today. People and children freeze in apartments, and you need a vote because somehow you need to protect the looted. And don't you know what it'll cost. I'm talking to everyone who can hear me. People wake up from sleep, shed hypnosis from themselves, look at the young faces of those standing in the squares and on the streets, freeze in tents, and ask themselves who they stand for and what they protect. Why their young hearts are covered with those who have robbed millions. Do not let the Ukrainian youth get involved in the barricades of opposition. Do not let them be used for the sake of America and the European Union. You had a similar experience in 1991, and you blindly believed their lies, and what do you have? It's not the kind of people you choose to travel with. And we, the Communists, are furiously condemning the irresponsible calls and anti-constitutional actions of any authority, any political actors and public organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u112	I can't see Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk. Then please, school, Karnauh prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u113	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, the previous speaker, I'm just. I'm telling you, it's Julius. I was, uh, a loop-on-the-neck report, and I just mentioned the school program. So I think here you can understand that this rostrum is going to be used all the time and it's basically the right thing to do. For me, the parliamentary rostrum, it does exist, it is the highest rostrum, where an idea can be presented, the opinion of a national MP chosen by the people who trust him. And I understand that everyone is aware of the extent of their responsibility in this rostrum, because it's not a person speaking, not a member of a political party, but a representative of the people speaking first. So I'd like to literally say a few words here from another question. Let's have our colleagues here, the national MPs, who are in Donetsk, perform a number of performances that cannot be ironized, which cannot be perceived as a political or ideological struggle. It was clearly and unequivocally stated that they were in favor of eliminating the Ukrainian state, for destroying the Ukrainian Constitution, by committing criminal activity. Three articles of the Criminal Code. Nor was there a word of condemnation in this Hall, nor in the Rules of Procedure, nor in the Ukrainian Security Service. The Ukrainian Security Service, along with the prosecutor’s office in general, has made an excellent farce. She broke the case because of the fact. So it wasn't specific people, it wasn't specific speakers, it was just ghosts, and it was the fact that they were speaking to determine who was actually speaking. Whether it was the leader, or the representative of the President in the Kharkiv region, or whether it was his shadow. Maybe it was a doppelganger. Maybe it was a doppelganger. And that's why the fact is that it's broken. This is the peak of legal nihilism, as it is for me. I want to remind you of another event that took place in this country. Because everything starts with an egg, as the Romans said. Then I'll remind you. On one occasion, the Prime Minister decided to visit Frankivsk. He's been egged. He fell first dead, then passed over, and later, with such a tragic face, he spoke of various diseases. The student who planted the egg was arrested instantly, and the case was violated during the flight of the egg against him. Everything was done quickly and clearly. And no one violated the facts. For example, according to the fact that a blunt object is being dumped or dropped. Everything was done clearly and without any warning. So I'd like to go first to the law enforcement agencies, the prosecutor's office. At least read the laws, think about the head, for it is the letter of the law and the spirit of the law. Look to the spirit when the law, when you do not have your own spirit, and break criminal cases clearly against those who have advocated the destruction of the sovereignty of Ukraine’s territorial integrity, calling on all of the highest levels that they can come to do so. That's why I believe the D.A. will do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u114	Karnauh, I can't see. Please, Katusheva. After her, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, national deputies, radio listeners. As a national MP, I was approached by my constituents, who were forced to set up a committee for the salvation of the Crimean State Ministry. In order to protect university students and teachers, and the arbitrariness created on 7 December 2004 in the university walls, the Ministry of Health issued an order two weeks before the exam session of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health to withdraw from the post of Rector of the University of Babanin, referring to the non-conformity of the text of the contract concluded by the Ministry of Health until 2006 by a separate provision of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Without agreement with the scientific council, without the requirements of Ukraine's KZOT, this formal occasion led to revolutionary changes and the composition of the vase. In six days, a very large number of pro-rectors, Deans of the faculties, and administration officers were removed. The educational process has been paralysed, and students have been deprived of the opportunity to engage fully in and develop the profession of physician. Since 13 December 2004, the students have been forced to start a protest against the arbitrary creation and publicly frustrate the rallies with the demand: the first is to cease arbitraryly; the second is to return all teachers and dean and procéctors to work; the third is to restore Professor Babanin's Rector, Anatoli Andreevich; the legal inaccuracies in the contract signed with him by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine before 2006 are not a mistake for students. Babanin Anatoly Andreević for students and teachers, and all Crimeans, is a guarantor of stability, a guarantor of the future, a reference of principled and literate leadership, who has been able to bring to the medical community in many countries of the world a high level of modern scientific and educational technology, which has enabled the university to take first place in the rating of Ukraine and the students to receive full knowledge to treat people. The Committee for the Rescue of the Crimean State Meduniversity requests that they be protected from the mistakes of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and that they be able to learn and work fully. I ask you, Sir Adam Ivanovich, to give appropriate instructions and to take the necessary measures to put an immediate end to the illegal acts against my constituents. And lastly, I would like to address our radio audiences on the subject of the statement by Lukyanenko and Chernevski, who discredited the Power, one as a envoy in Canada had an unsettled accident for which he had been expelled from the country and the other for which he had killed a child and for which he had long been in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u116	Yes, Orzhachowski, Communist faction, Shibko, I can't see. Get ready, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u117	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Ukrainian Company faction, Honourable Head, colleagues, has recently been said and written about the legality of the Ukrainian military contingent in countries of the world. As we know, it is obvious that instead of strengthening our borders, we are protecting the interests of other countries by spending money on young people’s lives, creating new diseases. The particular anger of the people causes the presence of our armies in Iraq, the loss of the budget, the breakdown of morals, the violation of world legislation. People ask: For what values do we fight in Iraq, whose interests do we defend? The answer is the only interest of the United States and Ukrainian oligarchs. Recently, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted against the Ukrainian occupying battalion. There is no legal basis for the statement by the leaders of Ukraine’s defence department that substantial funds are needed to recover the battalion. What is more valuable — money, questionable values, or life? Of course, the lives of our fellow citizens. My Hersonian countrymen, the faction of the company will execute Leonid Kuchma to comply with Parliament's decree. This initiative by the President shows that he is able at the end of his career to remember the people of Ukraine by making a personal mistake. Second, I don't think there's anyone who doesn't care about the events of the last days and months, the threat of civil strife, the dissension of Ukraine, the politicization of the judiciary, the actions of politicians like: power changes, we change. After the illegal actions of the authorities, so - called lefts, during the elections that led to the bribery of elections, voters, false information, the national position proposed by Peter Simonenko was not required. The events of November 2004 in Kiev caused many to review their actions, including the vote. It is now felt that the Communists have justly warned the people, the nations, that both followers of Kuchma are no better. So perhaps the people's deputies went to support constitutional reform in order to abandon the presidential-Parliamentary model of power. That is why I consider it timely to submit colleagues to the Simonek faction, Kruczkova's draft decision on the appointment of the All-Ukrainian referendum on the abolition of the Ukrainian presidency. This step is an investigation into the country’s unwarranted financial spending on elections, the emergence of polytechnologies, the intervention of foreign politicians in Ukraine’s affairs. The referendum is proposed in September 2005. The time of the presidential form of government in Ukraine has shown that the establishment of an uninhabited institution in our society has not only consolidated society and ensured an economic breakthrough but has led to the concentration in the hands of the President of unprecedented powers, the loss of peace in Ukraine, the destruction of historical traditions. That is why, in advance of possible events, the electorate proposes to cancel the institution and move on to parliamentary form.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u118	Please, Zybenko. Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u119	The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I would like to stress in particular that I am representing a committee that deals with the problems of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters. Today's stage of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine began with a statement by the presidential candidate, which fortunately did not become President of Ukraine, Leonid Czernoveckik. You know, frankly, I'm not surprised that this candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine won a little more votes than his family does, and a little bit more than the people at his bank. For when this man came to the highest court of state, on the rostrum of the highest legislative body in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I felt that he was dreaming. A man who owns one of the most powerful banks in Ukraine. Who doesn't know, I remind you, it's the Rightax Bank. A man who doesn't remember how many "majbaches" he has. And so of the voters who don't know what it is and thinks I'm barking from the rostrum, I'm explaining that it's the most expensive Mercedes that costs about a million dollars. So this person from the Supreme Council stands crying crocodile tears about the fate of Ukrainian citizens, poor citizens of Ukraine, trying to throw a dirty faction of Communists. I would like to say that this person has neither the legal nor the moral right to talk about it. What is the real thing? Not by justifying it, but by talking about how it really is, I'm talking about what it is. Unfortunately, radio audiences can't see what I'm doing right now, and I'm saying, I have a graph in my hands that gives you a number of bills that are only introduced by Communist deputies at this session. So I was talking about the fact that the faction of Communists in this session alone introduced 129 bills. Of these, 102 are essentially social bills. Communist MPs are concerned with pension insurance issues, wage problems, the problems of paying off the arrears of Ukrainian citizens, the problems of not allowing the last property of the Ukrainian people and many others to be stolen. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to say that this is what is true about the faction's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u120	Yes, please, Domanski. Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like to address not only the deputies today. I would like to say and address the voters and members of the Social Party. The closer the vote in favour of the President of Ukraine, the more the anti-communist hysteria gets. Both on the one hand and on the other. Communists are trying to accuse all of their sins by accusing them of not supporting any candidate. And each candidate, the environment, the oligarchies would like the Company to make a statement, call on its supporters to vote for one or the other. We have, well, the most disturbing thing is that the voices of our nasist, bright anti-communists are increasingly the voices of individual representatives of the social party. Yesterday from this rostrum, voices from the Kiev Channel are presented by the naked representative who want their readings, his support for our Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka, to be transferred to the Company. [[I don't want to say that all members of the Soccer Party]] I'll call this man's name. This is Baranovsky, who until 1991 served as the secretary of the party's Democratic Raycoma, from 1991 to 1993 as the representative of the President in the area. He's in Soccer today. I want you dear friends not to insult me. To use the political definition, the Lenin definition, when Lenin called such people political prostitutes. And I call Baranov a prostitute who misleads her voters, socialists, and tells lies about the Company on TV and radio. I want to address the members of the Social Party. We Communists are ashamed to have leadership like this. I'll call you if I have to. We are ashamed that there are representatives who are willing to sell their honour and dignity. I'm going to name, how many cabaks, how many stores, how many properties, how many oligarchs from Soccordia have in Zitomir, I'm going to name by address, and I'm going to tell you how many nightclubs there are! So I ask you to put this on the conscience of these leaders, or the private members of Socstrachi will tell you who is who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u122	Please, Kosov, our Ukraine faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u123	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear compatriots! During those 17 days and eight nights, on behalf of our faction, I was with you on the stage, on Bank Street and on Lutheran Street. I want to express my admiration for you. I'm a young man now, but the atmosphere between you, people of different regions, people who spoke different languages, people who came to Kiev from different places, I didn't even expect to see. The most basic slogans that will enter the history of those days will certainly be a slogan addressed to the police, "Our brothers, let go of the shields." And the militia's next round came up with shields down and open. Or two: "Militation with the people!" And she was really with the people. Honor and glory, our dear brothers! Now here's another one. Here after all that has happened, after all these thefts, after what has been done with the people and with their will, so many district administrators and district officials from some of the police and prosecutors have made money on articles of the Criminal Code. And in vain, someone thinks from my countrymen, that they will be punished. You will answer with all, as you said recently, the strictness of the law. And there's no such thing. Well, that's the last thing I want to say. Well, I understand when the coward and the thriller Janukovic says that the orange revolution is an attempt at a constitutional coup, when the attempt to legally elect a new president is considered a coup, I understand him because he trembles for his position, and for all the crimes committed by his gang team. But when my colleagues, whom I have recently respected, are involved, my Communist colleagues. So what's going on with you guys?Oh, my God! But there are intelligent and intelligent people among you. Why would you want to pair up with these gangs?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u124	Please, Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. After him, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u125	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". My esteemed voters from Odessa County, from other areas! I would like to inform you that the traffic on the Odessa Kiev highway was blocked for several hours by supporters of Viktor Yanukovic. The White Blue, and in fact the criminal tried not to allow participants in the All-Ukrainian Car Crisis to come to Odessa. It took nearly four hours for the militia to end the legitimate Constitution guaranteeing every citizen freedom of movement. The D.A. didn't file a criminal case, she didn't move on it at all. In order to identify those who decided to assign themselves the right to decide who to come to Odessa and who did not, the intervention of the special unit "Berkut" was required. The Berkuta fighters pushed people with white and blue symbols onto their sides, and along the unblocked route, a convoy of auto-tests entered Odessa. Similarly, Ukraine will find itself entering all European structures after the victory of Yushchenko. And all those who shout, shout, slander, and remain there in the ditches spoken of by the chief of the world proletariat, and in the same houses where they see many prostitutes. There are mirrors there, and it's useful to look at them sometimes. This is how the Odessa incident ended symbolically. Those who try to throw away the whole country will find themselves in front of the story. I'm sure this incident won't leave any Odessites indifferent. Anyone can be inconvenient, and then the entrance will be closed to him. The Odessites don't want a bunch of people deciding that she should come along. Everyone always came free in Odessa, and we were happy for everyone. Now some of those who have usurped power decide who can or cannot come, pack their suitcases, and ship their relatives to London. Speaking of which, it's useful to know who it is. Who in the Luhansk region today is taking the lead in preventing the people’s President Yushchenko from becoming president? Mr. Ephraim, head of administration. I'm going to the Attorney General's Office. You've been in criminal custody for 9004 years. In this case, the LuganskTéploža was stolen $50,000, 132 dollars, and transferred to Latviaprivat bank. And the current governor of the area was personally involved in this as well as in the falsification of the elections. And this fear of responsibility is that this is about separation from Ukraine. Ukraine has always been and will be whole, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u126	The word is Bespali, the faction of "Our Ukraine." To prepare for Nosenko, he passes the word Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u127	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear colleagues! The "Our Ukraine" faction insists on the adoption by the New Year of Ukraine's budget, at least in that part of the inter-budget ratios, not to hold back and allow the formation of local budgets immediately. Despite the fact that the government has made an unprecedented budget of over 11 billion dollars with an unheard of deficit. How else could that have happened? Because the government's taxes on Janukovitch's company were almost in March, they spent both the budget and, by the way, the money of the people's investors from their control banks. The ministries have become the election headquarters of Janukovič. The last one, by the way, with one hand, clings to the Prime Minister’s chair, from which he was released by the Supreme Council, and on the other hand, he has been very much in favor of power. I think so, if a person does not tolerate the authority that is in the Prime Minister’s chair for the time being, go to the mirror and tell him everything you think about it. Yes, I also found an opposition. So, God forbid, any of the voters think they're opposition and that faction. Who traded Lenin for Yanukovich. Thus, the people who have, millions of people with a communist worldview, have been left without real expressions of interest not only in Parliament, but also among the presidential candidates. Because neither Victor Yushchenko nor Viktor Janukovic are really supporters of the Communist idea. However, I think that the proponents of the Communist idea in these elections will probably come out of the moral principles of the candidates. I propose, by the way, to facilitate their vote, and this is my appeal to the Central Electoral Commission, to the committees of all levels to transfer the electorates to the district where they remain from the other floors to the first. Moreover, all the Yanks collectively advocated that changes to the electoral law should be voted on in a package of amendments to the Constitution. And thus, they have made it impossible to improve electoral legislation in those positions where it needs improvement because they have bound it to change the Constitution. Despite the fact that the faction of "Our Ukraine" is in favour of making those changes, I was the first to introduce a bill that would also allow the disabled to simplify the voting order. But they are aware of the very specific actions that Janukovitch is taking. But that's all small. The main thing is this. We got off our knees, we got civil dignity. So, dear voters, on the 26th, all to the election, and vote as your heart tells you, vote for Ukraine, for your country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u128	Nosenko conveys the word Masenku. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies, and above all, respected radio listeners. Today, I want to say a few words about what the hysteria is certain when December 26, the day of the re-voting, approaches. And there's an accusation that the Communists are supporting one of the candidates, and they betrayed the people, and so on. No, it's evil. And we officially claim that we are not supporting any of the candidates. Let Ukraine hear it. But to prove to both us and our opponents that we don't support any candidate, let's do it. Let's get together in the hall, send this underprivileged president, who reigned for 10 years, to retire, and let's go to hell. And let's not let this dictatorship continue to develop, let's cancel the Institute of the Presidency at all, so there's no white and blue, there's not one that happens after certain events, the color. So let's do something really popular, let's do it in a more patriotic way. We're now doing what we did, but when it comes in, we've changed the Constitution, and we're trying to really, at the local regional level, transfer functions to local self-government. But we had this in 1994. The heads of the district councils were elected, the heads of the district councils were elected, but the dictator came, he had little authority, and once again such a dictator was torn to power. Just give him those powers, or he can't run Ukraine. So I'd like all people to understand that when one of the candidates, the one who is extremely in charge, claims that his principle that thieves sit in prison, I'm telling you officially: no one is really going to be in jail, including Kuchma won't be sitting, and no one is going to be sitting, and no one is going to be sitting, they've already made a deal, and the capital is going to be there. They're oriented and they're making arrangements, and no one's going to go to jail. Boris Yakovic, unfortunately, left, but he also says that everything in the bag was voted on and we can't get away with it. And we've changed that the second unit should be printing ballots. We actually broke the package deal. So why can we do that on the one hand, and to give citizens the right to vote in all polling stations, here, you see, there's the principle that we can't break the parliamentary vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u130	The word is Solomonine, a faction of Communists. And Gračov gives him his word. It's been six minutes. I'm sorry, I don't see your last name on the monitor. Well, maybe you have another monitor. I don't have that name. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u131	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the radios! Allow me to present to you the full text of Congressman Rona Paul's statement to the International Relations Committee of the United States Congress of the United States of America on 7 December 2004 on the financing of an electoral campaign in Ukraine by an American taxpayer. [[Texas]] I quote. “Mr. President, President Bush said last week: any elections in Ukraine must be free of external interference. I fully agree with the President. Unfortunately, I think that many government agencies have looked at this issue differently and sent US taxpayers to Ukraine in an attempt to influence the outcome of the events. We do not know exactly how many millions or tens of millions of dollars the Government has spent on the presidential elections in Ukraine. We know that most of this money was intended to support a specific deputy and that through a number of specially designed non-governmental organizations, both American and Ukrainian, millions of dollars have been made in support of a candidate for Presidential office Victor Yushchenko. [[NGOs]] I don't think we should support any of the candidates without Victor Yushchenko's support, and I don't support his opponent, Viktor Yanukovic. It's just that it's not our business the Ukrainian people will choose as their president. If he felt that the elections were unfair, he would decide what to do next. As this unilateral US funding has been carried out in Ukraine, I fear that we see only the tip of the iceberg, namely, that the United States Government, through the Agency for International Development, has provided millions of dollars of Polish-American-Ukrainian cooperation initiative PAUSI, which is managed by Freedomhouse, a United States-based organization. PAUSI then sent government money to numerous Ukrainian non-governmental organizations. End of quote. I will only refer to those organizations that are mentioned in the speech of the distinguished congressman: the International Centre for Political Research. Please, don't get in my way. . Victor Yushchenko himself is included in the advisory board. And this organization is not the only example. Next, the West Ukrainian Training Centre. Next, the Centre for Political and Legal Reform. Next, a private consulting firm in Virginia. Next. This is the most disturbing concern of the distinguished congressman: in Ukraine, so many grant-winning organizations, we do not know how much U.S. government money has been spent in Ukraine and, most importantly, how they have been spent. Perhaps a few examples of frank bias that we have discovered are an anomaly. But I think Congress and American taxpayers have a right to know for sure. I think we really need the U.S. Court of Auditors to investigate how much U.S. government money was spent in Ukraine and how it was spent. I very much hope that my request will be supported by committee chairmen. Lugar, Deputy Secretary, and my colleagues on the committee. President Bush is absolutely right: elections in Ukraine must be free of foreign influence. It is our business to identify without delay the extent to which we have violated such an important principle and to stop all funding for political candidates and campaigns." I read to you the text of Congressman Rona Paul, Texas, before the International Relations Committee of the House of Representatives of the United States Congress on December 7, 2004, on the financing of an electoral campaign in Ukraine through the funds of an American taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, this is procedure. What I didn't have on Rudzkowski's monitor was gone. Because when the speaker is announced and he is not in the hall, his word is not given to anyone when he is not in the session room. So let's wait for the end, and then we'll figure it out. Please, Grigorovitch. Behind her, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u133	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, and above all, the honourable voters! It's a good thing they're talking about funding and US dollars. By the way, for them. The election campaign of Janukovich's power costs just as much as the election campaign in Bush and Kerry's dollars. Where did they get this money? From which countries' budgets? How about those from where we were greeted? You'll know after Victor Andryovich Yushchenka's victory. We'll figure it out. At the same time, we're going to know how many Communist factions have traveled through these grants in all of the years of independence under USAD's internship programs in the United States. Also, I think it's going to be known. I'm often asked by voters why you don't respond to the hysteria that flows from one corner of Parliament. As a doctor, I answer. People lose, they have to shout. And then everything will be on its own. And I want, as an MP who works on the Summit, and this is the northeastern region, where our candidate for Presidenty Victor Andrievich Yushchenko is the most eastern of the candidates and, by the way, the son of a participant in the Great Homeland War, and I want to be the curator of this area, which is bordering on Kurska, the Belgian region of the Russian Federation, to go to Russian and address the electorate first of all Donbas. Respectable voters, brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers! I would like to assure you that we are also deputies from the faction "Our Ukraine" and the citizens and the Centre of Ukraine, and the East with no less understanding than you and respect and that you are the end of the mining glory, of the very hard work of honor. We, like you, read the war feats of fathers and grandfathers who fought against fascism. This brings us together. But at the same time, I would like to ask you, I remember our respected miners in 1991. They were courageous and strong men. Then, in 1996, 1997, they came to the Supreme Council with helmets, demanding their money. They said, "The money's gone to Donbass." And what did Donbass end up spending on a mountain today for an independent Ukraine besides hard work and humiliation? I'm in. It was in Donetsk that the first criminal murder, the exterminator of Alec Greek, occurred. Then the murder of Deputy Scribany. Then Donetsk gave up on the mountain a number two for the very corrupt governor of Suma District. Finally, it was the Donetsk region that gave the wealthiest man in Ukraine to Renata Ahemtov. Finally, twice a candidate for President Yanukovic. The good people, the miners, the veterans, why did you shed your blood to make your neck the richest man in Ukraine, the most corrupt candidate in Ukraine and the poorest region? It's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u134	Please, Mironenko. That's where we're going to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u135	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! During the socialist period, I was not part of the party; I was asked to join the party on several occasions; and leadership positions were proposed. I haven't entered, though the communist idea is the best in the world. It implies social justice, free health care, education and so on, all you've seen is that the socialist idea that you've provided with Soviet power is in line with the Company's programme of caring for everyone, the elderly, the young, the children, every person. But I've seen careers break into a party, and there were so many, you can see that they're now crawling around like taraks into all the capitalist parties, calling themselves different, but they're actually cursing the Company, because they're also communists because they betrayed them. They're not ashamed, they're just afraid of what they'll say. They don't have shame. There's never been any traitors, no shame, they'll black us out and they'll black us out. I joined the Company in the spring of 1991, demanded the Kherchen Mountain Retirement of Gorbachev from the Secretary-General, warned that Gorbachev, Democrats and supporters of capitalism, nationalists, liberals would destroy the country, destroy, enrich universal privatization, enriching the narrow strata of people, newly declared capitalists and servants, all kinds of politicians, poets and so on, which would bring misery to the people. That's actually what happened. Unfortunately, Gorbachev was not retired. The Union has been eliminated. After the end of the Union, it began to fight for the restoration of the Communist Party. And we came to Kiev to all those who were in favor of the communist agenda. At the First Assembly, which, in view of the Company's ban, named the new party or the old party of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, everyone said, including Frost, and all the others who remained in the Social Party: we are Communists, after the Company is restored, we will be restored to the Company because this idea is the best one, and so on. It was the same thing at the Second Assembly. I was the head of the Kerchny socialist organization, but I saw the socialist move further and further away from the people, away from the socialist program. They go on and on to capitalism, to nationalists. And now we see them together. So-called socialists, nationalists, jeschenkovniks -- they all serve, in fact, the idea of Americans, Americans provide money and socialists, and "Our Ukraine" seeks to put up their President, but I am convinced that deception will eventually dissolve. This pink mist will disperse and the people will believe that only the compatriot of Ukraine protects the interests of the people. And we will win with the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u136	Yes, dear colleagues, I'm talking to the socialists. Which one of you? Is Boki going to get the word? Since one and the other will be out of bounds, be sure: Which one of you? Boki? Please. Boki Ivan Fedorovich, we're going to be one minute - Rahansky and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u137	John Boki, the Socialist faction. I have to say that I got a vote here legally and I'm entitled to three minutes, and not the way anyone wants it, because written down, we exchanged with Rudzkowski, we have three.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u138	Ivan Fedorovich, you have three minutes, it's not about you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u139	I want to say one thing here in this room is that some of the bad bad things about the Socialist faction, about the individual representatives of the faction, and I, as the deputy director of the faction, am obliged to stand up for them, and I understand very well where this is coming from. But I must say that our comrade Baranovsky, when he spoke yesterday, used only facts and nothing but facts. You saw beautifully he picked up the newspaper of the Popilnian district, where it was clearly written: "communists for Yanukovic". The article was signed by the First Secretary of the District Committee. Excuse me, if the Central Committee takes one decision, and the grass-roots party organizations take other things, it's party problems, not Baranowski's problems, mine or someone else's. Then you can figure it out, who for who. So all public statements are public statements, and concrete steps are concrete steps. That's one thing. And that doesn't give generals or generals the right to call any political prostitutes, because these things go beyond the bounds of parliamentary ethics and beyond ordinary human ethics. That's one thing. And the second thing. I wouldn't want each of us here to be accused of fascism, nascism, and so on. I think those are the words that should sound just not in this room. Sorry, everyone here knows I'm not a fan of Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, and he himself knows it. But if we support it in these elections, that means only one thing -- we don't support the bandit regime. We still think that Victor Andryovich Yushchenko is going to ensure the democratic development of the country, and that's our right to know, to think about how we can solve these problems. But I wouldn't want the country to be plagued by the knowledge of some political forces that support the current regime that want to preserve this regime, political schizophrenia, for example, about interference there, not interference, and so on. You know, it's a long-standing stage and it's been going on so long that these steaks, they already, you know, have this odour that's disgusting, they just don't want to talk about it. This smells like Stalinism, and in its worst performance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u140	Yes, thank you. Please, one minute of Rachansky and we're done. Anatoly Bartholomew, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Eupatoria constituency Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 9th this year, by a constitutional majority of 301 votes, passed a decree on the 60th anniversary of the Yaltic Conference. I have to tell you, unfortunately, I have to tell you that. The Supreme Council: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has blocked the implementation of this important decision, which states to propose to the Cabinet of Ministers, within a month, the establishment of an organizational committee to prepare and conduct measures for the 60th anniversary of the Yaltine Conference, and to ministers of foreign affairs, culture, education, defence, internal affairs, the National Bank to take appropriate action. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has given such an order, but the ministers do not carry it out. It's been four months. And we've come up with a draft order by the President of Ukraine for the National Organ Committee for the preparation and implementation of measures to mark the 60th anniversary of the United Nations. This is only because the national deputies earlier in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine took the initiative and took the decision. Mr. President of Ukraine Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, don't sign the adventurous orders, but the ministers who don't comply with the Supreme Council's decree, learn to do so because they will find it difficult to live in the future parliamentary republic. The Supreme Council should give the principle of assessing the facts of failure to comply with its rulings. Please consider my speech to be the request of Kabmina, MZS, Minosveti, Minculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on this we are exhausted from opportunities to speak today. Thus, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on December 21st. Good luck.
