ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:46]] 405 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Jona Valentin Mihajlovich and Katerinczuk Mikli Dmitrovic. Let's welcome them and wish them well. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 18 November 2004. Thirty-one questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws were passed in general, seven bills were adopted in the first reading, one bill was designed to be drafted, four bills were rejected, two were passed, and one draft decree was rejected. As a result of a review of the comments of the President of Ukraine, the veto of the President of Ukraine was overturned by one law, four laws adopted in a new edition, three laws repealed. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals, to make requests, to make applications, to make statements, and to report. I'd like to ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please explain on the sign the name of the national deputies who have been enrolled. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the political status of the leadership of the ICC Law Academy in Dnipropetrovsk and the protection of civil rights at the Baranjuk Academy. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister in connection with the targeted allocation of a car to the dental clinic of the Žitomir district of the Gitomir region. Romana ZVARIĆA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Industrial Policy, Minister of Finance, Minister of Agriculture Policy on the budgetary financing of the subsidiary “Caliy factory” of the Open Association of the “Orian” Shareholders. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister for the purpose of allocating funds for the gasification of the Red Army region of the Žitomir region. Jury BOJCA to the Prime Minister on the allocation of construction funds and the introduction into operation of the Herson district cancer centre. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister, the editor-in-chief of the newspaper “Governmental courier” for information on the presidential candidate in the newspaper “Governmental courier”. Vasil TUSHKA to the Prime Minister regarding the violation of article 50 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian State Service Act by officials of the State Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance and the State Treasury. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister in connection with the refusal of residents of House No. 16 on the street of Vaida in Tajeva to participate in the election of President of Ukraine. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council, Attorney General, Head of CEVK on the involvement of the leadership of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine in the electoral process. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister for failure to execute the decision of the Supreme Court of Arbitration on the charge of the Polon factory for the production of livestock in the Hmělna region. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Attorney-General for the use of measures in connection with the mass violations of the constitutional right to housing of members of the Colombian City Garrison of Ivano-Frankiv region, their arbitrary removal from the housing line. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to finance the unfinished construction of water dehydration in the city of Brezne Plains. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, concerning the undue payment of salaries to employees of separate farm enterprises in Hersonščina. Vadima GOUROVA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the allocation of funds in the State Budget for the reconstruction of the Rudusan chlorine composition. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Head of the Herson Ombudsman for the financial support of individual socio-cultural sites of the municipalities of the Herson region. SLABENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco for the improper treatment of officials in the executive branch of the Volin region to the problems of socially vulnerable citizens. Michael VOLINC to Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klav, Attorney General, on the rightfulness of the closure of the “Gyornik” sanatorium of the State Holding Company “Alexandriaugil”. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko on the settlement of the issue of land payments with the “Kniselo” agricultural company of the Jewish region of Lviv. Vitalia ŠIBKA to the Attorney General for the non-payment of wages to members of the Society with limited responsibility for the “Obry” District of Dnipropetrovsk and the provision of false information to the National Deputy of Ukraine. Boris ZAGREVA to the Attorney-General on the groundless delay in the law enforcement of the Lochvic district of Poltava in the case of a road accident, which injured three young children. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the prosecution’s organs in criminal matters in connection with the killing of a citizen. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for refusing to commit a criminal offence against members of the Kirovograd Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Attorney General regarding the possible suicide of the commander of the division of the company of the material security of the mechanized brigade, who carried out the task in Iraq, senior sergeant of Hensersky. Mr. Alexander MOROZOVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the acquisition of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Housing House at the address of the city of Kiev, Prospect of Heroes of Stalingrad, 15-B. YEUGENA YULTIA to the Attorney General, the Central Electoral Commission, on the preparation of the falsification of the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21, 2004, by the Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs on the issue of giving the Director-General of Kharkiv State Aviation Company AN-140 Prime Minister V.F. Yanukovic to run the election campaign. YEUGENA YULTIA to the Attorney General, the Central Electoral Commission for the preparation of the falsification of the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21, 2004, by the Rector of the Tax Academy of Ukraine, Peter Melnik, and the use of the office of the Rector of the Academy for this purpose. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General, Minister of Environmental Protection, on the legality test of the decision to reduce the total area of the Donetsk Botanical Garden of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine by 67 hectares. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General for the illegal decommissioning and privatization of the land on the street of Zachar Mozgow in the park area of the village of Solotvino in the Zakarpatsky region. Lilia GREGOROVIĆ to the Attorney General on the violation of the criminal case against the “Inter” channel for inflaming religious hostility and providing false information. Victor MIRONENANKA to the Attorney-General on the unlawful actions of the “Right of Defence” and “Mikolayevsk”. Stanisława PCHIDENKA to the Attorney General for dissatisfaction with the answer to the request for a dissatisfaction in the investigation by the Wallin District Attorney’s Office of the death of Major Oleg Masniew. Ms. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the discovery of a criminal case in connection with illegal acts that stain the name of the internal affairs officer, the head of the Head of the Internal Affairs Department in the Kirovograd district of Jarov. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General for the criminal responsibility of members of the State Technical University of Dniprožinska and the employees of the Dniprovsky District Police Department, whose activities fall within the scope of the crime. Mr. Mikoli Katherinczuk to the Attorney General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, on the violation of the legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine by the members of the territorial election committee of the territorial constituency No. 100 of the city of Kirovograd. Igora STAŠA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of violating electoral legislation in 138 territorial constituencies. Vladimir FILENKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of violations of electoral law in District No. 142. Mr. Taras STECHKIVA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence involving members of the territorial commission of the electoral district No. 100. LOURIA KLECHKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for a criminal offence involving employees of the Office for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Herson area. Mr. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of falsification of electoral documents by District Electoral Commission No. 2 of District Electoral District No. 33. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of falsification of electoral documents by District Electoral Commission No. 50 of District Electoral District No. 38. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney-General for the offence of falsification of electoral documents by District Electoral Commission No. 116 of District Electoral District No. 109. Igora STAŠA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of falsification of electoral documents by District Electoral Commission No. 137 of District Electoral District No. 141. Vladimir FILENKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of violations of electoral law in District No. 135. JOURIA KEYKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of obstructing the exercise of electoral law. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney General about the criminal offence of obstructing the exercise of electoral law. SERGEANT BONDARCHUKA and Taras STECHKIVA to the Attorney-General for the criminal responsibility of persons responsible for the deliberate injury of the body to a member of the territorial election committee of the district constituency No. 41 of Donetsk and for the kidnapping of thirty-four official observers in this constituency. Mr. Andria SKILE to the Attorney General on the elimination of legislative violations concerning the election of the President of Ukraine on the electoral day before the second round of voting in the Ternopil region. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney-General, Head of the State Tax Administration, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the CEVC on the verification of the obstacles to violence, threats, fraud and bribery by citizens of the right to elect the President of Ukraine, exceed the authority of the individual heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Administration, other ministries and central executive authorities, as expressed in their commitment to the order to receive the credentials and to hand over to the heads of administration, and has led to gross violations of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Sergija OLEXIJUKA to the Attorney General for the destruction of the sale of the newspaper “Silski Novosti” in the Veselinski, Jelanowski, Domanowski, Woznesenski region and the city of Woznesensk Mikolaiów region. VALLERY OF LEBEDIVS to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of the head of the District Electoral Commission No. 50 of the territorial constituency No. 233 of Shevchenkov district of Kiev in connection with its illegal activities — not to transfer to the territorial commission the minutes of the district election commission. MICILI KRUCJA to the Ministry of Defence on the transfer of the military town to the territorial community of the village of Krikhovci in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal conduct of the management of the Koryukowa District Department of the Ministry of Interior in the Chernigiv region, which led to the suspension of the election trip to meet with the candidate for office of the President of Ukraine. SLABENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the payment of arrears on wages, on the basis of one-time leave and regressive payments to enterprises in the Volin region. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Defence for non-payments to military personnel released to the reserve in 2004. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the violation of effective law enforcement by the Dniprovsky District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation by the law enforcement authorities of constitutional rights and the legitimate interests of the Open Shareholder Society of the Security Transformer. [[ARTHEMENCO, THE DELIVERY, THE WORKER, THE SOLOJEV]] MICHELLE NOCHENKA to the Minister of Transport on the inadequacy of the railway line between South-West and Moscow railways on the state border of Ukraine in the Mid-Bud district of Sumsk. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Finance, Minister of Education and Science for the 2005 allocation of funds to complete the construction of a boarding school for deaf children in Volodymyr-Wolinski. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the violation of the rights of landowners of the members of the collective agricultural enterprise “Amen” Kyiv region. Mikoli Karnauha to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources on Land Use Problems in the Territory of the Bilska Rural Council of the Kotelev district of Poltava. Anatholic to the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General on the illegal activities of the employees of the Dniprogerinian City Department of the Ukrainian Security Service and the City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Chief of Public Service for Conscientious Ignorance in Public Activities of Article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on State Service, and the Language Legislation by Officials. Valeria LEBEDIEVSKH to the Head of the Shevchenk district office in Kiev Council and the District State Administration for the conduct of illegal pre-election agitation by officials of the Shevchenk district government administration in Kiev, the improper performance of the service duties of the head of the Shevchenk district office in Kiev, the Council for the maintenance of the electoral registers and the obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy. Mikli Karnauha to the Chief of UMS of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk region for offences in part of the use of state property. Thus came 66 requests from national deputies. 33 - "Our Ukraine" faction, Communist faction - 13, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Trudova Ukraine - 1, National agrarian - 1, Socialist Party - 4, Block Timoshchenko - 6, Center - 3, non-fractional - 1. That's 66. So on the board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yes, Igor Plujnikov, the faction of the Social Democratic Party united, please. Please turn on the Pluto microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u2	So do the Eudoks, please. Eudocim is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u3	Please give me your word. Suffrish Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u4	Nestor Schufric, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready for Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u5	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, the entire Supreme Council, all of us have witnessed how on April 21st at the Supreme Council of Ukraine Victor Yushchenko called his fellow countrymen, part of those small Ukrainians, fascists. We hoped that he would still have a conscience to apologize to his fellow countrymen for offending them. We did not expect him to do so, and we had to go to court. On July 27, the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court and October 21, by the Court of Appeal, acknowledged that the words published during the sitting were unconfirmed, slanderous, offensive, and dishonoring the honour and dignity of our citizens. The court ordered Victor Yushchenk to refute this information from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We believe that a person who fights for a higher office in our country does not have the moral right to do so if he humiliates our citizens by calling them that after we won a very difficult victory in 1945. Everyone has suffered from the Fascist regime, and this is our common victory. We won't let anyone abuse her. We're talking about this right now two days before the presidential election, so no one is accusing us of persecuting the loser. We have three more minutes from Igor Plužnikov today and we are giving this time to Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenk to come out to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, if not by conscience, to apologize to his fellow countrymen after the verdict. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u6	National MP Bauer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u7	Please pass the word to Auntie Sussi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u8	Aunt Drought, please, the Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u9	94th constituency, Tetjana Susuha. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unscheduled to go to the parliamentary rostrum today that forced me to speak yesterday from the same rostrum of the national deputy Yuri Karmazin, who represents the faction of "Our Ukraine" in Parliament. His statement that the current Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic allegedly beat up my husband, the head of the Kyiv District Administration of Anatolia Drahu, I clearly see as a bold, rude and cynical provocation. It is quite clear what Mr. Carmazin, a member of the team Victor Yashchenka, wanted to achieve. First, on the eve of President Janukovitch's presidential run-off, to create an image of Viktor Yanukovic as a vicious bully and a political bully, who even uses his handiwork to intimidate not only the opposition, but his colleagues in power. Secondly, you, Mr. Carmazin, did not want to protect, as you said yesterday, Anatoly Drought, you deliberately and cunningly wanted to compromise him as a politician and a leader, but also to provoke a real conflict between Drought and Yanukovic. As my wife, Anatoly Andriyovich, I strongly deny the beating of Anatoly Drought. I can offer particularly distrustful and skeptical people a visit to the government and see for myself that Anatoly Drought is alive and well. And it's a good idea to check that he didn't take any treatment at the M.E.S. Central Hospital. The information ducks, the blasphemous lies, the dirty provocations -- these are the methods you use, gentlemen of the opposition, to come to power. On the basis of what has been said as a national MP, I demand that Mr. Carmazin acknowledge the baselessness and information of the conflict between Draža and Janukovic yesterday, as well as the official apology given to Anatolia Zasusa throughout Ukraine. At the same time, I appeal to the Committee on Rules and Ethical Affairs to give a proper moral assessment of Yuri Karmazin's speech if, of course, Mr. Carmazin has morals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u10	Yes, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko is transferring the right to speak to Boris Ilchi Oliynik. Please. Get ready. Yehanurov is passing on to Pinzenic. Then get ready for Pinzenik. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! In January of next year, we're going to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the birth of an exodus of Ukrainian poetry based on the glorification of Olesia Potter Vasil Simonek. In view of the significance of this legendary figure for us and not just our vocabulary, I wanted these lessons to take place at an appropriate high level of state. It's worth it to me not only to announce the year 2005 Simonek, but also to emotionally add material assets, at least to a monument that the community has planned to build in Chercas and will never find any funding. We still have to allocate funds to him at the state level. And in June 2005, it has been 250 years since the founding of the Kyivsky, now the Supreme Military Order of the Red Star Hospital. Today, this is the oldest medical facility in our state, which has been working since 92 as the main medical and diagnostic facility of the Ministry of Defence, where all kinds of medical care are provided. Over 23,000. People are treated at the hospital each year and another 300,000 are treated each year. They're getting medical attention in an ambulance. Then it would be absolutely motivated for the 2005 budget to respond to the anniversary in a positive material expression. All these requests I'm formulating as a parliamentary request, and now I'm appealing to Peter Prashenko, and he'll be handed over if he's not here, so he doesn't forget about it, balancing the budget for the year to come. And last but not least, dear colleagues, dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, should after these elections, give them health, and still call the Attorney General to report on the investigation into the murder of Gongadze and Alexandrov, as the Council of Europe's senior institutions are preparing quite serious interventions for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u12	Yuri Yehanurov refers the right to speak to Victor Pinzenik. Prepare Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u13	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear national MPs, dear compatriots! On November 21st, it's not just the election of the new President of Ukraine, it's the choice of the philosophy of Ukraine's further development: whether Ukraine will still be without the future, or whether each of us will see tomorrow's prospects, the future of our children and grandchildren. And no one can remain apart from their choice, for it is the choice of the soul and the heart of each one of us. The first round of presidential elections showed that the people of Ukraine wanted to change power, regardless of pressure, threats, forging Victor Yushchenko. Millions of Ukrainian citizens have risen from their knees, felt human beings, for they cannot fool and intimidate the entire nation, people themselves understand the truth, but they know where the lie is. We are grateful to the citizens of Ukraine for their choice, for their position, for the fact that we are grateful to those members of the electoral commissions, those representatives of power, the law enforcement agencies, the judicial system in place, have shown our professionalism, our morals, our respect for the rules of law. Dear friends! November 21st of this year will be a turning point in our history, make your choice of soul and heart, don't be afraid, you're afraid of power. As you go to the polling stations, remember that this is the last day of today’s power. On November 22, you will wake up in a new country, in a country where people are not divided into classes, Easterns or Westerns, by national or linguistic signs, by which church they go. They will be reinstated at work by all government officials who have been reinstated in colleges, all students who have suffered for their political beliefs. Professionalism, decency, and not political preferences will be decisive in the formation of institutions of power, law enforcement, and the judicial system. And we are convinced that most of the employees of these bodies meet these criteria. Bruno. They say, "Don't be afraid of your enemies. In the worst case, they'll kill you. Don't be afraid of your friends, or worse, they'll betray you. Fear the apathetic -- they don't kill or betray, but only with their silent consent do they commit treason and murder in the world." Dear fellow countrymen, do not be indifferent! Do not let your neighbors, friends, acquaintances be indifferent. Maintain Your Future! Vote for Victor Yushchenka!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u14	Yuri Lucenko, a faction of the Socialist Party, is invited to speak. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u15	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! Two days later, the day is crucial for Ukrainian democracy. Unfortunately, we must note that the struggle between national choice and the system of falsification, organized by authority, is not about fighting positions. Everyone understands that despite the administrative pressure and the telejebelasting of overpowered channels that have just cried for fascism, Victor Yushchenko won the first round and was supported by more than 40 percent of the population. To believe in the results published by the Central Electoral Commission is all the same as believing that the Earth is flat. And everyone understands that these percentages were much higher. Support for his candidacy by the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Party of Greens means that Yushchenko de facto has already won the President's election. So our opponents throw into battle the only weapon in their arsenals: lies. Today, there are postcards in Ukraine that claim that Frost refused Yushchenka’s support. This is a common practice that the authorities use to avoid telling people the truth. I declare officially from this rostrum: Ukraine’s Socialist Party officially supports Yashchenka’s candidacy, and this is a merger of the left and right opposition to remove the antinational regime from power. Question two. Today, the biggest opposition newspaper with a 750-thousand "Village News" bill is blocked in the regions so that people don't get the same truth. I confirm that the Force News team today publishes Soccer's statements of official support for Victor Yushchenk. Moreover, Victor Yushchenko took over the non-sales of land by 2008. Other liars spread information that Yushchenko is in a coma, unconscious state, and so forth. Yesterday’s appearance on television shows that it is a lie, and this shows how low its opponents fall. Others instigate believers, organize baptismal movements, and exploit the faith of people who are totally unacceptable in a normal state. I declare officially, no one is going to push the believers. Victor Yushchenko was blessed in his church of the Moscow Patriarchate in the village of Horungzinka in the Sumskie region. From Victor Yushchenka, I'm sorry, it's like one of the known substances of a bullet. He was born near the Russian border of all presidential candidates and enough of him to make an image of the enemy. The most disgraceful thing is the use of fascist symbols, the use of civil war, which is now being used on the government's television channel. I don't understand how you can then give your hand to Mr. Cobzon, a citizen of three countries who is fueling national hostility in his country, where he seems to be a citizen. I don't know what kind of low ground we have to go down to scare the 47 million people about the Fascism that we've won together. It's a disgrace, Mr. Shufrich. Give it to your TV channels. And the most disgraceful. Today I think it's all a hysteria of power. I understand there's no way for the team to figure out what to do with the ship's ship commander if it's a rat captain. Nevertheless, they must accept the national choice. It will be so that this authority will never return to the office of the President of Ukraine. I'm honest with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u16	Anatoly Moroz passes the right to speak to Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists. Anatoly Frost is present. Prepare the Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština A journalist, receiving a diploma, swore that he would go to people with the right word and would never betray his ideas, as was the case in Soviet times, where every newspaper was not only an agitator and a propagandist but also an organizer. And every adult knows that with the help of the newspaper, an unquenchable spark of love can be set on fire, but it can be fueled by a fire of hatred in the souls and hearts of people. This is precisely what the media are pursuing today. Of course, sparks are very rarely lit, and their lying material stirs up a fire of hatred in people’s hearts, especially when it comes to providing accurate information about the Soviet past or the Communist of today. This principle is followed by journalists from many newspapers in the Kirovograd region. I just don't understand how you can look people in the eye after the false information that appears on the pages of your newspaper. For example, on November 9, almost all the newspaper articles began with the words: "Traditionally, a small column of left-wing political forces passed through the city's central street." The column was very numerous, Mrs. Journalists. So you must have learned to count correctly. Then it continues, as it is known, that on November 7, two years ago, Ukraine had not been considered a festive day. It was not only a holiday but also a birthday for the new state, which gave everyone education, including you, respected journalists, free of charge, and the right to work and rest. And what a holiday and what our story is, even the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the current presidential candidate, said. And for some journalists, as they said, it's nostalgia, and when it's nostalgia, there's probably something to mention, what to regret and what to compare. Today, not one journalist regrets the time, but he lacks the courage and conscience he sold, as Judas did, to tell the truth on the pages of his newspaper. It is a pity that today’s media are simply in subtances in power and unable to express their views, their vision. Don't you, journalists, understand how you're being humiliated, ignored by your professionalism? But you must, at one time, give judgment to your actions, that it may not be ashamed to look at your children and to your instructors in the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u18	Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Get ready for Sunshine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u19	Honorable colleagues, respected compatriots. Many of the dirt has already been poured out of the television screens and on the radio, and many times we have witnessed with you the efforts of certain political forces to take advantage of the great victory of our people during the Great Homeland War. In 1944, our parents and grandparents liberated Ukraine from the fascists, and in 2004 we free Ukraine from the bandits in power is our duty. Yes! Yuchenko. Veteran society strongly opposes the efforts of these political forces to anoint our people with the great victory of the Great War. The veterans assigned me to say that in 1944, your political parents and your grandfathers shot the liberators of Ukraine in the back, fled with the Germans, or formed gangs and hid in shelters. In December 91st, you, the worthy descendants of your political parents, under the terms of your return to Europe and the values of the public, have deceived the Ukrainian people, taken power and property from them. Now, in November 2004, you and your orange and brown political children and grandchildren are making a noise about yours, as if you were willing to free Ukraine from the bandits of power, but you're not saying that until recently you were yourself and remain part of this capitalist power. You're hiding what you're doing with your aggressive attack in order to sort of turn bad blue and white boys into good oranges, put their orange bandits in a capitalist flaw, into their own bandits who haven't eaten up before they went bankrupt. And that's why they're so ferociously going back to the powerful yellow and blue trough. Stop your banditry of duty to every honest person in front of the Great Fatherland, both those on the fronts and those veterans who live among us. Life in the 2004 elections is not over. The Communists are proclaiming and ruling in power in Ukraine will overtake the capital and its hallowed political colours. So to the Soviet authorities, so to socialism, so to the friends of the nations of the brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u20	Sergey Sinchenko, Communist faction. Calm down, calm down, please. Sergey Sinchenko, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u21	Pass the microphone to Mironenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u22	Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction, prepare the Borgich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u23	5th constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Crimea. Two capitalist blocs have now collapsed in battle for the office of the President of Ukraine, in each of which, I stress, in each of them, a huge number of large oligarch capitalists who have robbed the people who have put themselves in the service of television and are now actively calling for the barricades of volunteers who are naively fighting for the interests of these clans. Although it is their oligarchic, privatizational, capitalistic orientation that makes people so insolvent that even when they are in their own apartment and even receiving a pension, a person cannot be sure of a secure, not only distant future but also a well-being dinner today, in a good day. Yesterday I was again threatened, asked not to mention the oligarchs, not to mention them, but I have to tell the truth. Do not believe the selling oligarchic television, do not believe the long - standing sales politicians, who are accustomed to the authorities, who call themselves left-handed in their true, lean voices, but are in union with the right-wing people who portray themselves as decent people, but in the immediate environment have completely dishonest, extremely rich oligarch thieves. Do not lead to the death of people as a result of the struggle of two oligarchic clans. Let the oligarchs and policies of the two blocs tear each other apart. Every Ukrainian citizen now lives on a volcano, awaiting any moment of trouble from the capitalist authority approved in 1991. Because of the actions of cruel people, extremely immoral, who call themselves Democrats, Liberals, nationalists who seek to continue destructive universal privatization, looting, looting, looting. Examples of the current injustice of ordinary citizens in this regard, which was confirmed in 1991 by Democrats, Liberals, I stress, nationalists, in the bandit capitalist State a gigantic number. Let me give you just one example. The people of the house have been fighting unsuccessfully against the Justice Society and the business structure of Nikolaevsk for their legitimate rights for a long time along the street of Gorodetsky in Kiev. To the basement of their home, although all their apartments were privatized, and as early as 1999, they had established a multi-housing house. The house houses veterans of war and labour, participants in hostilities awarded medals, Orders for the Liberation of Kiev, scientists, writers, folk artists of Ukraine. During that period, five people died and one became disabled. I am addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine. Please take measures to protect these elderly poor people. It's about the election. Respectable compatriots, remember, two oligarchic blocs, which are only one foreign policy. The rest is the same. Just think, foreign policy, and you can choose from that. Only from this. The rest are universal privatization, liberalization and price leave. It's true, you've seen life since 1991. Yushchenko and Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u24	Alexander Borzich, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Prepare Mikhail Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We know that in recent years an agro-industrial complex has been working under stressful conditions. He is constantly persecuted by crises that have a serious impact on his economic situation. First of all, companies, producers of agricultural products. And it doesn't make any better for other subjects working in the agrarian market, processors, traders, stockholders and so on. Finally, we have an unstable situation in price policy for agricultural production and food. And this is on the condition that the legislative provision of the agricultural sector is one of the highest priorities on the part of the Supreme Council. So both targeted and framework laws are enough for the civilian development of the APC, for its sectors to be transferred to market lines. In addition to the state agrarian structures from Kabmin to the districts, we have a network of social organizations, different kinds of communities, alliances, associations. Today, there is virtually no sector and even a branch that does not have its uniting body at the national level. Figuratively speaking, a nurse in the agrarian sector is enough, but the problem is that each of these babysitters is primarily concerned about their particular child, and more specifically, cares for the corporate interests of the narrow circle of members united by professional signs, while the purely economic interests of the country require cooperation with other partners in the agricultural business. This requires an appropriate structure to take on the role of the leader of the common interests of all subjects, who would become a kind of mediator between the executive and the legislative authorities and all other organizations working in the agricultural market. Efforts to give the Ministry of Agrarian Politics a similar function have done nothing good. At the same time, Europe’s many - year experience confirms that the most active organization is the Agrarian Chamber as a public authority. The need to create such a structure in Ukraine has also been discussed for more than a year. In this connection, I would like to inform you that such a structure, including the National Agricultural Chamber of Ukraine, has already been established as an independent Ukrainian public organization. According to the statute, it brings together Ukrainian citizens involved in the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products and food, in the provision of material and technical resources, in advisory activities, in the promotion of rural communities and in other activities. The Chamber will play an active role in shaping agrarian politics, protecting the rights and lobbying the interests of its members at the regional and national levels. This will be a consolidating structure capable of bringing together a vast number of Ukrainian farmers, directing their efforts into a single race. To develop the agricultural sector, it has been strengthened.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u26	Yes, thank you. Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u27	Respectable radio audiences! I am specifically addressing you, not the people's deputies, the people's deputies have long been in their affections, and they already know who they're going to choose tomorrow and tomorrow. And I'd like you to be more specific, too. Every day when you go home or to work, people ask why the Communist Party has not decided or decided not to support anyone? I want to tell you, how would you decide who to support anyway? Today, more than ever, it is evident that these two forces, which are going to the elections, are two forces that are manifesting the same political course. And the moral, moral, moral beginning of this course is evident from the debate that has, unfortunately, turned out to be between the representatives of these forces. And just to be clear, why did the Communists make that decision, I'm going to read you an interesting thought that wasn't made by a communist. This is what one of England’s prominent writers wrote at the end of the 19th century. He wrote that, to date, there are only two nations with no connection or compassion, who also know no habits, thoughts and feelings of each other, as they do on different planets, nations that have different upbringings, food, children's manners, and these two nations live by different laws. Who would you think those two nations were, and who said those words? Those words were spoken by the former head of Britain, Dizrael Benjamin, and the two nations were nations rich and poor. Here were the Communists, eating and staying on the side of the poor. They will continue to protect you. We cannot protect those who are said to have led to poverty. And then, imagine, we're going under the flag of these people. Therefore our future, the Communists, is one, as Alexander Block said: "And eternal battle, we shall rest only in our dreams." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. During the performances, the names of the national deputies Shufrich and Carmazin were mentioned. They have the right to a replica. Shufrich Nestor, please. Carmazine's next. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u29	Thank you. As far as truth is concerned. The truth is, once again, I want to emphasize that on April 21, Victor Yushchenko called his fellow fascists the day he stormed Berlin. The truth is that he lacked both conscience and the courage to apologize to his fellow countrymen. The truth is that the judgment of his words is recognized as untruthful and slanderous. And the truth is that today we are inviting to this important rostrum, from which he offended his fellow countrymen, to apologize to them, if not by conscience, according to the decision of the court that came into legal effect. And we invite him to do it today, to the presidential election, so that no one blames us for persecuting the loser, the one who can't win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin, please. One minute on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u31	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Victor Yushchenko won the first round, and you stole his victory for the time being, but you're celebrating in vain. We'll have her back, and she'll always be. I sincerely thank the hero of Ukraine, whom we have seen now, what she looks like. Because so far, the citizens of the Grabina District of Vasilkovsky, Kovalovka Vasilkovsky, Poljačinska District of Pasovsk -- and there, they were required to have a stronger hand in voting for a better deputy. I will now forward to the Head of the Supreme Council a reference to the Freedom newspaper about the Central Hospital of the U.S. Navy, an official message that I asked yesterday to protect Anatoly Drought, because as a citizen, I feel sorry for him. I'm sorry, too, for the governor of Kharkiv district of Kushnarov, which also came after the first tour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Wait a minute. Please don't make this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u33	The statement is given to the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! I consider it necessary to make a statement. Ukraine has come to a very important border, the second round of the President's election. The price of November 21, 2004 is huge and extensive. Its main dimensions are the prospects of the state and society for at least the next decade, the development of processes in post-Radians and the impact on European security. The social tension associated with the election is unprecedented. They're only consistent with the response of their time to the Chernobyl disaster. While witnessing the high level of human activity, the existence of a powerful opposition that is a sign of the country’s democratization, the first stage of the presidential campaign also in fact imposes on us a thesis on the disengagement of society by the power of the people. Today, we have a dispersed country, and this can result in serious difficulties, both on the day of the re-election and for a long period of time. The reasons are not limited to the imperfections of the Presidential Elections Act, as some tend to think. The point is that this law is prescribed for a society with established, mature democracy, and we are moving, even though it is difficult and contrary to this level of organization of life. But where does the law provide for the manipulation of electoral lists, reassurances, single voter voting several times or for a few voters, forcing people to vote for a candidate, for blocking the work of electoral commissions? What right is permitted to ignore and distort the will of the people for the desired result? On the contrary, all of this is expressly forbidden by valid legislation and must be punished irrevocably. To be sure of the unique examples of disregard for the law and, in fact, the abuse of people, the separation of politics with morals does not even have to study and generalize what is happening in places. All you have to do is watch Ukrainian television. It seems that war has been declared against its own people. Under such conditions, the more we talk about honesty, transparency and democracy of elections, the less people believe what it can be. All right. Those to whom this is based should do their utmost to remedy the flaws and violations that may have a negative impact on the second round of elections by deforming the process of national will and its results. At the same time, the urgent need to implement other promising tasks of civil society formation, the establishment of the rule of law, freedom of speech, real independence and the demonopolization of the media, the radical restructuring of law enforcement agencies, the removal of the influence of clan-oligaric groups on social political life should be addressed. Presidential candidates do not need an illegal, doubtful price of victory. The Ukrainian people need such an honest and democratic electoral procedure that will enable everyone to realize their vision of the country’s development, place and role in the world. The only real and only important thing should be, and hopefully the positions and voices of the people will be, to make our realities unacceptable, the questionable expression, "No matter how they vote, it's important how they count." As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the highest representative body of the people, I call upon you, fellow citizens of the country, freely, knowingly and without fear, to exercise your constitutional right under the guardianship of the Law on 21 November. I think it is necessary to pay attention to the heads of the authorities, the law enforcement agencies, the electoral commissions to their personal responsibility for not allowing violations that could hinder the will of the people, or, for God's sake, provoke civil conflicts. Ukraine has the right to a president who will be recognized by his own people and respect the world. It is up to us, all of us, and everyone that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian psychotropic drug psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors Act. New edition of the Law, registration number 3491, reporter of the Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood — Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich. It's suggested that we review the question: for the report, within five minutes, the answers to the questions, within five minutes, the discussion, within 15 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u36	Do I have five minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u37	Yeah. 5 and 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u38	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, respectable people of Ukraine, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood has been considered, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Poland, Loboda, Bahtyev, Bilovol, Sietina, Grigorovich, the Bogotyrov draft law on the circulation in Ukraine of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors, which aims at improving the legal framework of State policy in the field of drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors, reducing the number of violations associated with the illegal circulation of these drugs and substances. The bill sets out the basic principles of public policy in the circulation of narcotic drugs, economic operators, and activities related to the cultivation of plants that include drugs. As well as developing, producing, implementing, importing to Ukraine, exporting from Ukraine, using and destroying narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and precursors that are subject to control in Ukraine. The special requirements laid down in his position for licensing economic activity in the area of these assets are laid down. At the same time, specific provisions of the proposed bill include those relating to the definition of the list of substances to be controlled in the country, the authority of the Narcotics Control Board of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the procedure for the use of narcotic drugs for medical purposes, the procedures for the prosecution of decisions and the actions of officials, and the control body in the field. Drug and substance control in Ukraine, according to the Committee, requires clarification and technical legal development. In addition, it is necessary to define in more detail the provisions of the bill the powers of state authorities responsible for the implementation of state policy in the field of drug trafficking and the fight against illicit trafficking. The Committee believes that the adoption of the bill will contribute to improving Ukrainian legislation in the field of drug trafficking, precursors and international legislation in the fight against illicit drug and psychotropic substances. Taking into account the above and the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on the appropriateness of adoption on the basis of the proposed draft Law No. 3491, we propose that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood with the drafting of a bill that takes into account the proposals and observations of the subject of the right to legislative initiative and to submit a second reading to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A positive decision is the Ministry of Health, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And now I would like to talk about the morals and morals of today's power -- immoral, lying, criminal!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u39	Mikola Efremovich, I'm sorry, speak legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u40	All right, by law. So I would like to point out that this law has to be passed for many reasons, namely, that in Ukraine there is an extremely widespread drug problem, and in Ukraine there is one of the leading places in Europe. The most common drug use today is in Donetsk. We remember and know how drunk, drugged, young people in Donetsk, and these are schoolchildren, students, and vocational schools. Examples are said to be rich and in that country, because we know that the judiciary today can be successful, the land poor, robbed, there is nowhere to live and how to live, medical care is not available, all the doctors are concentrated in Donetsk, not in the neighborhoods. Drugs, drunkenness, and the spread of AIDS, tuberculosis, and alcoholism have become the norm of life. Will it give me a law that my colleagues have written? Come on. But not with this power. With the new government, which will soon be number 21, the people of Ukraine will choose. And I hope that Yushchenko will lead Ukraine so that drug abuse will be reduced in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u41	Yes, please, are there any questions? Sign up. Yes, please explain. Five minutes. Tomenko's behind him, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u42	Mikola Efremovich, Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". I would like to ask: How much does the law provide for daily work to track and respond adequately to such cases when, for example, authorities use those people who are already drug addicts on local government lists for certain purposes? For example, I attended a rally in Suma yesterday, and I was approached by people from the district of Lebedin district of Suma, from others who say that they were not just a group of bandits, but also by drug addicts from the district of Donetsk, who are fighting a riot. Information has already been received about one rape in Lebedin. So today, it's not just the power that gave birth to drugs, it's also using them against people in the election campaign. Is there any responsibility and mechanism for the responsibility of the authorities to use these people in political and electoral processes?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u43	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I would like to say that today's legislation generally provides for the responsibility of the authorities for that crime, in general, for all the crimes committed in Ukraine. But unfortunately, as we know, for 13 years in Ukraine, no laws have been in force, including the laws that exist. The law provides for more stringent licensing, drug control, and the possibility of drug use and circulation in a wider area of medical institutions today. What I'd like to say is that today's authorities are tracking people who are using drugs in the opposite direction, in the opposite direction, in order to use their criminal nature, and the dose of drugs is used to take action against the civilian population.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u44	Please, Rodionov, follow him Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u45	Communist faction, Rodionov. Mikola Efremovich, I treat you with great respect as a specialist. You used to operate on me personally. But the question I have is that you are linking today’s shortcomings to the personal, as you say, authority. And I associate these flaws with the social system, and as a member of the Company, I think that only we, when we overcome this arrangement, will have no flaws. Who do you think is right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u46	I think we're both right because you can see what this social system, the normal social system, as today's head of the Supreme Council, is a normal law on presidential elections. But it depends on how this social system is used. And unfortunately, for 13 years of independence, when Ukraine took power, not the people took, but we'll take, we'll say, criminal elements: you want, you call them oligarchs, you want, like, but I don't think anyone will doubt that I'm not an oligarch. I've worked in the hospital my whole life, and my desk is an operating table. And, Your Honor, when I see eight-year-olds, eleven-year-olds who are high on drugs, kicking each other's stomach with a knife, please tell me why they're here on a social day. The authority that led the people to this. And today we have TV screens, see how the change is going: Yanukovic worked for two years and supported Kuchma, and now Kuchma says that Kuchma is bad. So they're the same, one will continue the position of the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, let us draw closer to the substance of the matter under discussion, to the consideration of the bill. Please, Valentina Seminouk, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u48	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mikolo Efraemovich, I would not want a child to be thrown out of a bathing boat along with the bath. With the adoption of the law that you are already making changes, it is a very strange situation when our farmers who want to grow on an industrial basis cannot do so today, so article 10, which is adopted, has two readings. In particular, Kabin then adopted the regulations and Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 1698, which referred to an exhaustive list of documents needed to grow poppy on an industrial basis. As a result of these sub-legislative acts, poppy is imported on an industrial basis from Poland, and our manufacturers cannot produce it. At the same time, the cost of production for our producers is 1,100 percent. So I'd like to ask you to work on those proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u49	Thank you. I'd like to say. You see, it's not just your mother's. Indeed, we all remember who was older, who was happy when the poppy blossomed in the garden, and how everyone loved the poppy pies. But unfortunately, for today, look, Ukrainians love the fat very much, and can they buy it, even though we have better fat in Europe. So who led to this? And we will certainly take this situation into account before we read the second part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u50	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich. Time's up. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the bill. Yuri Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine" has a word for it. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The adoption of this law will allow for the establishment of legal principles of public policy in the field of drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors, and will help to better define the powers of executive authorities, the rights and responsibilities of citizens who take part in such circulation in Ukraine. But only when the laws are fulfilled. Today, there is a law in our country, but that law is not being implemented. An example is the discovery in the city of Vasilkov of one and a half tons of poppy straw to stop the gypsy. However, the material of a criminal case that has not been brought to an end for reasons related to pressure to investigate is evidence that there are many problems with the application of the law. The fact that the Berkuta Horse Department of the White Church was guarding the poppy field in the Basilk district and it wasn't even calculated. Lieutenant Colonel Berkuta personally addressed me on the grounds that he was sent there at the order of Mrs. Tetjana Draha. Where is the hero of Ukraine Drought? Mrs. Tetjana, maybe you can tell us how the 7 drug-fielders paid 5,000 dollars in that state three months to protect their horses. Yes, the law is being enforced. Next. The project also foresees a reduction in the amount of illicit drug trafficking. Maybe you don't know, so I'll let you in on the mystery that in the Odessa region in seven areas, there were illegal drugs. Who Controlled the Law? I was in control. How was the prosecutor’s office overseeing this? As honest prosecutors were removed from the case. By the way, perhaps Mrs. Drush remembers being removed from the case of an honest prosecutor, the youngest general in Ukraine, Mr. Mishchenk?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u52	By law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u53	That's what I say by law. For trying to investigate this activity, they gave birth. I'm sorry. And I would like them to apologize to the Ukrainian people. And this law should certainly be adopted, all the more so that its adoption will allow for the implementation of article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the State creates conditions for effective and accessible health care for all citizens. Of course, we have to take into account what we have, and we can grow a variety of raw materials here, but we can set up harsh controls, because these junkies have already got all of Ukraine, and now they want more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. He's invited to the presentation. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u55	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Regrettably, the state does not fear the question of the complete degradation of our people and especially the young. Perhaps the state is pursuing the goal set by the IMF and the United States, they need Ukraine, but without Ukrainians. That is how we feel today that the state is destroying itself. Does he not know what kind of authority a drug addict or an alcoholic might give? So changes in terminology have to be made to active action. In the Kirovograd region, as in Ukraine, there has been a steady trend in recent years towards further exacerbation of the problem of nonmedical drug use, alcohol abuse. In drug institutions alone, some 2,500 people with mental disorders and drug - related behavior are currently being supervised. The 6-month prevalence rate for the year is 221.7 per 100,000 population in Ukraine - 171.8. Of these, some 20,000 sufferers have chronic alcohol syndromes. Alcohol psychosis was 85 during the current year for 6 months. More than 5% of the crimes committed in the Kirovograd region are based on drug abuse, the number of crimes related to illicit drug trafficking has increased in recent years from 560 in 98, to 1568 in 2002. On the basis of the foregoing, there are a number of problems that unfortunately cannot be resolved at the level of the area. This does not guarantee the right of citizens to security over an alcohol and drug environment, an imperfect legal framework. With regard to countering the spread of drugs and alcoholism, the concept of State policy on alcohol and drugs is completely lacking. There is no clear mechanism for providing psychological assistance to citizens in critical situations that may lead to illicit use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, i.e. the problem of addiction to psychoactive substances, drugs or alcohol, becomes acute and poses a threat to the whole sphere of social life. So this Law really needs to be backed up to solve these problems, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u56	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Vitalia Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u57	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, radio listeners, our faction has been determined with regard to this bill, we propose to support the proposal to accept it as a basis. But I would like to say a few words about what we were discussing, when we discussed this bill in faction, we had some doubts about some of the issues. But despite these doubts, we support him, as I have already explained. And so I want to look at some of the circumstances, some of the underwater stones that are in this bill. I read from an explanatory note: The bill is necessary for adoption in view of the need to adapt Ukraine’s legislation to the European Union’s legislation. But is that the main thing, even though it's important if Ukraine integrates itself. But I have to make a point, and I'm going to make this emphasis right now, an adaptation to the bourgeois legislation of the Capitalist European Union. We need to know clearly what and what we agree with, know and understand from a socio-classical point of view, not just from a public point of view. The bill has five chapters and 25 articles, but two issues are key in its content: first, the requirements for licensing and control in this area regarding the situation, and the position of the authorities authorized to handle the tasks in the area of the control of controlled substances and substances and in the area of the prevention of illegal circulation. And there are some problems here, and they're defined in the conclusion of scientific expertise. These problems can be taken into account. However, the project provides for the possibility of health facilities in accordance with article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, health institutions of all forms of property, I stress, all forms of property, activities related to storage, transportation, and so forth. I'm asking myself and you: set up all forms of establishments of all forms of property. The state is clear on the state and the private property - who are the institutions for? For his "capture of capital," for the "quick" Ukrainians. I have some doubts that this law can be extended to institutions of private property. And the last words.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u58	Thank you. Yes, Vitaly Shibko. Just a minute. I already announced it. You'll be next. Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Šibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovština I want to say that this problem that is being discussed today is really relevant, because it's already, as they say, a national disaster today. I represent the Dnipropetrov region and I say, we have some cities just suffering from it. I personally had to deal with this problem in small towns where there are no jobs, but today there is an opportunity to distribute drugs, and this is done very conveniently by people who are even involved in power. Well, I'm talking about cities like the Upper Plains, Nicopolis and all that. And in general, this problem also applies to the national size of a city like Krivi Rig, where the topic is also common and what we are currently looking at. So when you do that, people are just afraid to call their sources, from whence their children or young people have drugs today. And they're just speaking anonymously to you, and you have to go to the Attorney General's Office, who's trying to take action, but they're somewhere in the courts today, because it's very, really difficult for our judicial system to make a decision that would be positive for today's fight against this phenomenon. If you touch this law yourself, it is a problem, it passes through official structures, that is, we are discussing the problem today in the law, either through the hospital, whether they are property, private or state. So that drugs don't spread and there's no circulation. But not only do they go from there, but they don't go that far. We need to understand that this law does little to solve the problem, little to move forward to a positive outcome today. The circulation of substances goes right through all the apartments, the apartments, where just at home people who are set up to do it boil this stuff, which is then distributed through their youth structures. Unfortunately, this is the case in our society that even the police that controls the circulation of these drugs are involved. So in support of this law, as a necessity, in the second reading, we need to add some vital evidence in order to prevent just the distribution of narcotic drugs not only through the hospital that this bill is about, but through other sources that, unfortunately, we now have, are there, and they prevail in their capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u60	Mikola Polishchuk is referring to Boris Bespalloma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, is there a problem of drug abuse in Ukraine? Even if it's not just me and we're all chorus to say there's no problem, no one's gonna believe us. Because it is generally known that Ukraine takes second place in Europe after the Russian Federation. Now try to figure out what region of Ukraine is governed by drug abuse. It's just as easy. Of course, this is Donetsk and several adjacent areas. It's so condescending to a real portrait of the Presidential candidate from power. It is clear that President Viktor Yushchenko will put an end to this. But right now we can help reduce drug abuse in Ukraine. From this point of view, the faction of Victor Yushchenk's block "Our Ukraine" supports the bill. The question is, How can we fight? If drug abuse is evil, it may be illegal to run drugs at all and take the bill literally from one line: it is stolen and it is not released. But in one dose, the same drug is a drug, a poison, a natural disaster of the whole society, and in other cases it is a drug that cannot be replaced. Therefore, the circulation of drugs and related substances needs to be regulated, including increased control. And here I agree with the previous speakers. Many hospitals and pharmacies are stateless — municipal and private. But does it hurt? At this very moment, the formation is developing successfully. Therefore, in our view, the path proposed by the drafters is optimal, that is, to strengthen control and regulate the circulation so that no one is tempted to engage in illegal circulation of these substances. Today, however, the ban on many very pharmacies, hospitals, and hospitals are legally pushing them into illegal businesses. That's why we support this bill, understanding that such a large and complex technical document, which we have to thank the authors, should still work. In addition, I would like to draw attention to another problem: where there are still so many uncontrolled drugs in Ukraine, psychotropic substances. One source is irregular, illegal migration in Ukraine. It's also a social problem, but in the context of the problem, it's also one of the factors behind the problem. Putting an end to illegal migration is also one of the key positions of today's electoral program for the people's presidential candidates, and after tomorrow's national president of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Invite the national deputies to the session room, please prepare for the vote. A committee proposal is put to the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Exploitation of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, Their Analogs and Precursors. [[new editor]] Registration number 3491. Please vote. [[11:25:50]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 65, Ukraine - 49, Communist - 58, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian - 16, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16, Alliance - 0, only Ukraine - 1, Center - 1, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 0, Democratic initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 4. Let's move on to the short-term consideration of the bills. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund is being submitted for consideration. Registration numbers 5138, 5707. The authors and rapporteurs are Ukrainian National Deputies Dove Alexander Volodymyrovich and Kirilov Viktor Dmitrovich. Get ready for the Mikola Chersun Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u63	Alexander Golub, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! At present, natural objects such as free running rivers, cult natural objects, and a register of wildlife areas that represent the acquisition of the Ukrainian people and have important ecological, scientific, aesthetic and national economic significance are not included in the activities of the law on natural and natural resources. At the same time, the experience of other countries, such as the United States, Canada, Australia, and others, shows that they have long been paying attention to the conservation of these natural objects. Special wildlife cadastres are carried out. For example, the Wildlife Act in the United States was adopted back in 1964, in Canada in 1973. This raises questions about the design and protection of areas of the wild nature of Ukraine, as well as other natural objects that we have offered. These proposals were supported by hearings of the Supreme Council Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster on October 28, 2003. The purpose of this law is to amend the Ukrainian law on the natural-invention fund of Ukraine with the aim of supplementing it with three other categories of natural-invention fund, as well as the organization in Ukraine of a special State register of wildlife, which will certainly contribute to the improvement of the protection of wildlife. The Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Inventory Fund is in the interest of the State, because its adoption is aimed at improving the rational use and protection of natural resources, including wildlife. And in my opinion, the adoption of this bill makes it possible to step up measures to protect wildlife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u64	Thank you too, Alexander Volodymyrovich, please sit down. Kirilov Victor Dmitrovich. You don't? Please, Shershon Mikola Haritonovich, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! The committee considered two bills at its meeting, number 5138 and number 5707. Unfortunately, I'm going to speak first on Bill 5138, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the first reading of this bill be submitted for re-reading. This is related to the need for technical and legal adjustment of the project. clarifying terms and regulating issues that are the subject of the bill with other conservation laws. This is especially true of cult natural objects, free - flowing rivers. The bill received a negative expert opinion from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. This conclusion states that legislation deals with the use of rivers and so forth. The committee at its meeting has considered the draft bill and also recommends that the draft draft law be submitted for re-reading in the first reading. The following Bill 5707, submitted by Ukraine’s national deputy Kirilov, proposes to clarify the forms of property in which natural resources may be located. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the first reading of the draft law be adopted on a basis. At the same time, the Scientific and Experimental Authority proposes the words: "may be in the form of ownership in Ukraine's legislation" to replace the words "may be held in public, municipal and private property" because the right of ownership of the Ukrainian people, as the subject of ownership rights, can only be realized through the forms of ownership provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. The committee at its meeting considered the draft bill and recommended that the first reading should be considered, accepted as a basis, and that the recommendation of the Scientific and Expert Office should be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. The implementation of the bill does not require additional financial costs. Requesting support for this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u66	Let's move on, thank you, Mikola Haritonovich, let's move on to the discussion. On board: the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin, prepare for Radionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u67	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Here they ask me not to use the drought, but I will not do it; let it not be of nature. I will not touch the drought, your lords. And with the drought, the drought, not the drought, all the rivers have grown fond of it, after Kirpa began to build a van. And the Jatran is destroyed, and after my speech nothing is done by the Henprocurator or the account room, that's the first. With regard to each of the specific laws, why is it not done? Because they're very busy. In Odessa there is Illa Livicki, leader of the Odessa Railway, 1,500 employees of the reserve of the leaders, who were now not allowed to work until they brought the hard-core guns to Kiev, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, no longer allowed the first party from the Odessa - Kyiv train that I was eating here, to Odessa. What is it? That's how people get bullied. I'm talking to Georgi Mikolaiovich Kirpa. Georgi Mikolaiovich, remember that you are Ukrainian and obey the Constitution of Ukraine. And we need people to take advantage of their rights. Why is Law 5138, 5707 pronounced? It is designed to ensure that natural reserve facilities are not only property of the Ukrainian people, but also in state, municipal, and private forms of property. Well, obviously, when the leader of the so-called majority, Mr. Stepan Gavrish, wants to go to Desert Water, I say he wants to, because that's never going to happen, Mr. Stepan, there's never going to be, like, 6.3 hectares. When Mr. Kirpa also wants about eight acres [8 ha] of family members. When. Where's Raisa Bogotyrov? Well, everyone wants to, I mean from the majority. And even Mr. Germanko wants from the Constitutional Court. It's a huge disgrace. This is the person who wanted to lead the Supreme Administrative Court right now. There are even people in the Supreme Court, other people. And so, let's divide the Phoephania. By the way, some other factions go there. Divide the Kyiv area now and here. In Crimea, there are manipulations in the Botanical Garden. And Levi, where even the king refused to cut down the trees. And we're saying that we need to change the form of property by covering up the Constitution. It is the Constitution that speaks of what must remain for our offspring and nature as it is. Therefore, dear friends, I will not raise my hand to vote for one law. Another law introduced by the Dove makes sense. But I'm listening to the thought of the profile committee, expressed by Mr. Scherschun, and I think it should be a little bit too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u68	Mikhail Rodionov. Microphone, please turn on the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u69	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist faction agrees to make the changes proposed by Law 5138. And this bill, in our view, inspires the hope that valuable landscape parks and gardens will be in proper shape in the future. I would like to point out that in this case these are cultural natural objects, such as kurgans, mountains, caves, individual trees, groves, and others, honored by the national element of the landscape, which today has no legal protection. That's the first one. Regarding the second bill, 5107. I think we have a manipulation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 13 of the Constitution emphasizes that, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, property rights are exercised by the authorities and local authorities within the limits defined by the Constitution. And we continue to supplement, extend these rights, and say state, communal and made-up forms of property. I want to make a point, the Communists think that once private property begins to govern the nation's wealth, the national wealth, that's where all of our problems begin. If you remember, under Soviet rule, all national wealth belonged to the people. And there was no such urgent need to protect these national acquisitions. And today we see that we have parks, gardens, reserves. Private companies, private individuals, and even private buildings are already run there. I don't think the second draft of the law can be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u70	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Please. Turn on the microphone. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Now, I want to say that Bill 5107 of our esteemed colleague Kirilov is an offer to clarify the forms of property that may have a natural-command fund. It's in the process of transformations that we've had in the last 10 years. We've already set up factories and factories, we've reached the ground, we've reached the water, we've got to get to the natural reserve, and tomorrow we're going to privatize and we're not going to be able to breathe freely. That's why we can't, we Communists, support such a bill. And with regard to Bill 5138 of our colleague Dove, he is extremely necessary and appropriate, but he has a few words to say and very much asks my colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Boris Ilchi Oliynik. And I'm asking the Chief to pass on the rest of my time to Oliver Boris Illich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u72	Boris Ilchi Olinik, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the reverend, of course, has the rightness of Alexander Dove, to add and protect special types like the thousand-year-old oak in Conchiy Zaspa, which has already been buried, and so on. These are also monuments to our history. And one more thing. Now I want to put it mildly: With regard to us, the Romanian side is not very friendly, especially the Danube Delta. We understand that the environment needs to be preserved. I am one of those who, even in Soviet times, opposed this cross - crossed Sabbath when they are not looking at nature, but only taking advantage of modern interests. Yet there is a great deal of pressure to demand that Ukraine stop the construction of the canal. That's where the main bolt is. In principle, it's not about protecting nature, it's about competition, someone wants to monopolize it. And I would like us, after explaining to the world society what's going on there, not to compromise those who want to block the nation, to retain the monopoly right to use the Danube Delta. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u74	Yes, we invite Mikola Tomenko, the faction of "Our Ukraine". The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u75	Victor Yuschenka's block of our Ukraine, Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, these are two bills, and I would like to point out that the conceptual idea of the two bills is fundamentally different. If the bill presented by Alexander Golub is an attempt to stop the situation that occurred today with the actual privatization of Ukraine's natural resources, and I would say this, renegotiation of Ukrainian nature, because it was, remember, once we had a time when the rivers were trying to turn them to the other side of the flow, today a situation similar to ours in the regions is happening, and I recently, the inhabitants of Kyiv, who live near Stugna, they say that Victor Medvedchuk is building there, he changed the direction of the river, he crossed it there, and other such serious natural actions are taking place. If we have heads of administration or politicians to change the direction of rivers, I don't think we're going to get anywhere good. That's why I like the idea of Alexander the Pigeon. At the same time, there's a warning here that the scientific expertise of our administration should be taken into account. Victor Kirilov’s bill troubles me because it is a kind of delicate phrase, but this phrase actually transforms parks, conservation ceremonies, monuments into private property or legal persons or individuals. I have the impression that we need to adopt a bill on political land tourism in the near future, the Supreme Council. You can make a lot of money, there'll be tour guides, and they'll drive people, and they'll say this is Bakaya land, this is Yanukovich land, this is Pinchuk land, and a lot of, I think, they want to and they want to look at this whole thing. You know, over the last few months, we've been practically hit hard on reserves and park areas. Over the last two months, a number of decrees have been signed, such as 67 hectares of Donetsk Park, according to the media, under the residence of the company Viktor Yanukovič Renata Ahmetov, 67 hectares [67 ha] from the park in Donetsk. Today, nearly 500 acres [500 ha] have been removed from the reserve area of the Yaltin Park Reserve. It's a few days before the election is over. Yesterday our younger colleagues from the Kyiv City Council came up with unprecedented ideas. Here from the SDPU, colleagues from other factions talked about morality. I think morally, if they care about morality, that Nestor Shufrich, Stepan Gavrish, Raisa Bogatirov go out to the rostrum and say, "We don't regret anything for the Ukrainian people, and we're giving up our six hectares of the reserve zone." Then I'll believe it's moral. So yesterday the Kyiv City Council allocated another 378 hectares and wrote that this is confidential information, not to be printed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies, the discussion of drafts of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund has been completed. We have two projects: 5138 and 5707. I'm going to put these projects to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. The draft law, registration number 5138, of the People's Deputy of the Dove, is submitted to the vote: "To amend the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Commanding Fund of Ukraine." Registration number 5138. Please vote. [[11:45:01]] For-143 The decision is not taken. It's about voting on the basis of the bill, registration number 5707, on the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund on the definition of an object of ownership. The author is the national deputy of Kirilov. Please vote. [[11:45:34]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! Maybe we can re-read a project that's gotten more votes so that we can work on it. That's why I'm voting for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund. Registration number 5138. Please vote. To read again. [[11:46:14]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Dear National Deputies! In view of the situation, we may be able to consult on such grounds as to close the meetings now, because we will not be able to accept the fact that the deputies are now in the districts. If you insist on the Miscellaneous, I can take a break in 13 hours. It's 1:00 p.m. to announce "Razna" because I have an international meeting at 12 o'clock. My deputies are gone, and there's no one to hold the meetings. So let's do it this way. Maybe we'll close the meeting, we'll talk about it. Who could have said nothing. If there's no objection, let's take these bills that we've just put to the vote so we don't burn them, we'll make a decision on. Plenary week, because these bills have already been discussed. No objections? Then on the 30th number, I ask the Secretariat to include the meeting schedule. I say, ladies and gentlemen, if you insist on "The Difference," "The Difference" can only be at 1:00. Because at 12 o'clock, I have scheduled meetings, and there's no substitutes, because they're all working on other schedules. So let's do it this way. Maybe we'll close ours. Please have suggestions. Carmazin and School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I have a constructive offer. First. We now agreed to pass only the bill of the Pigeon, and we disagreed on the bill on the embezzlement of the reserves. So let's make this decision. We're running out of votes there, physically we can't just provide them. That's the first one. The other one. I would ask that we now record "different" and then that people know that they've prepared for "different" and that you, as suggested, have "different" but prepared with respect to the Ukrainian people as it should be. For when the MP is not ready and carries on the air all that has been done, it degrades the dignity of the Ukrainian parliamentarian and of the Ukrainian people he represents. So I'd like you to sign up now, and I'd like you to speak at 1:00, and everyone to know about it. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First. Of course, we've already decided to transpose these bills, which we have now, for the next plenary week, so, in fact, we're going to continue the plenary sessions, that is, to consider the bills, I think it's inappropriate, considering that the situation has happened that you won't be either. Although, in principle, any other MP may lead, but I think we respect you and do as you suggest. But still, I'd like to suggest, "different" is what hurts not to us, believe me, but to our voters, they're talking to us. And despite the difficult situation in Ukraine before the elections, even though it needs to be talked about, there are dozens of problems that are currently relevant in the districts. And I would really like to ask you to sign up right now and be there at one o'clock. Everyone who doesn't want to come here, they don't take notes, they don't speak, and they use the Supreme Council for a whole other purpose. So I'd like to sign up right now, and I'd like to make sure that you're okay with your first hour "different" part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u80	Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics, organization of the work of the Supreme Council
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u81	I thank you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, well, first of all, to sign up for different things right now, as you know, your colleagues, will be in violation of the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the record for different things only takes place after it becomes clear that we are going to the section of a plenary meeting, a section of a different chapter, that is first. Secondly, this morning, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and honourable colleagues, held an exchange of thoughts, had the opportunity to make statements by representatives of completely all MP factions and groups, and such an urgent need to return again at the first hour to the same question, I think there is no. So your proposal, I think, is that you can have absolute support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u82	Allow the Committee to conclude its opinion
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u83	So I think your proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to close today's plenary session will be supported and supported by an absolute majority of those present in the House of People's Deputies, thank you. At any rate, the Communist faction now supports you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, let's say perhaps if you insist we vote in favour of "different" conduct. Who's in charge of running "Victane"?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u85	Different in the daytime, you have to vote for his removal. And Mr. Matthew knows that it is necessary to vote for his removal by law, by order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u86	So let's say, the honourable national MPs, the announcements, one minute, the break is announced by 1:00, and the 13th who very much wants to speak, will come, will sign up and will act. Break till 1:00. Ladies and gentlemen, before you take a break, I'd like to give you this information. Due to the release of the active cyclone from the West on November 19-21, Ukraine expects difficult weather conditions, which will be characterized by severe rainfall, severe wind and a fall in air temperature, which can contribute to the emergence of sudden, difficult forecasting of thunderstorms, icicles, wet snow, which can cause complications or emergencies in communal agriculture, energy, communication, and transport. [[Rain with wet snow and snow]] [[Time to 15-20 meters per second]] The additional factors to increase road traffic events will be the deterioration of road cover due to precipitation, the formation of an angina and the loss of visibility in the snowstorms. [[Rain, wet snow, snow]] I'd like to take that into account. Thank you. Break till 1:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u87	I'm gonna go on "Virgin." Yes, please explain. Baranowski, get ready for Domansky. Dear colleagues, I ask you politely to each other so that we don't take the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u88	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear voters of Ukraine! Less than two days left before the second round of voting for the election of the President of Ukraine. So what happens is the President's election or the capture of power by certain clans? The analysis of the events that have taken place the day before in Ukraine gives me reason to state today that the current power led by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic is leading the anti-constitutional power of government, using the very power and the power structures. By force, the authorities force voters working in the budget sphere, take reinforcements and go on additional trains to other regions and under the control of their leaders to vote for Mr. Yanukovic, by force the authorities force the militia, the army, the prosecutor's office, the tax authorities, the state administrations of all levels, bring 20 statements from voters, saying the latter will vote at home, already known for whom. By force of power, local self - government authorities, local electoral committees, are forced to falsify voter lists, excluding reports from Yashchenka’s supporters, and to list dead souls for whom they plan to throw ballots for Yanukovich’s benefit. The government forces students, budget workers, to rally in support of a successful candidate. By means of power, the authorities gather local authorities, business leaders, and institutions, proving to them how many people should vote in favor of the successful candidate. The only thing left for the government is to announce the power victory of November 21st over democracy. The arguments I have cited clearly indicate that on November 21st, the election of the President of Ukraine could not take place, but rather an anti-constitutional coup brought about by a failed candidate to take power. And to do that, by the way, the authorities have already resorted to the services of criminality. Dear voters, do not be intimidated, do not be able to break your will, the fate of your children and grandchildren. If the authorities go to force during the presidential election on November 21st, we must be ready to fight. Not only are we going to vote for Ukraine's democratic future, but we will not allow in the polling station of the overriding British-headed, we will not allow in-house "massically organized" in the paws, so-called "tourists", we will remain in the polling stations until we hear the results of the elections in each district, and we will not allow the anti-constitutional takeover of power. By the way, our voters are now calling from Zitomirsk, in the Amazing Electoral District, our colleague Rozwadowski is running so-called "meet" with a handout, and, by the way, other candidates are not allowed to attend these meetings, only theirs are allowed. But I'm sure he's not going to be able to make that bribe in the Amazing Electoral District, and people are going to vote for Victor Andryovich Yushchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u89	Yes, Domansky has the word to prepare for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! As President of the All-Ukrainian Union of Soviet Officers, I would like to address soldiers and sergeants, officers and generals, Admirals of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, veterans of the Soviet Armed Forces, veterans of the Ukrainian army: the Union of Soviet Officers has decided on a position regarding the election of the President, but we want to tell you that you are not mistaken, and to express our position that we will never support those who have met fascists on our Ukrainian land with bread and salt, and today we are ready to meet NATO troops also with salt here in Ukraine and allow NATO tanks to be under Voronez. We will never support those who, along with the fascists, trampled our Ukrainian land in the years 1941-1945. We will never support those who threw themselves into wells, burning children and old people in post-war years in Zitomirsk and in other areas of Ukraine. We will never support those in our Russian brothers who see enemies. Today we are also addressing the socialists who are attacking the Company. We have information that you took $10 million for your position in political reform to support Yushchenka, $40 million. And I'll call it -- the time will come -- the names of those who took that money. I would like the socialists to ask their leaders where they left the money. And the last. I would like to address the electorates of any party: listen to the voice given from the brotherly graves. About someone sitting in this room listening to a voice from his father's grave, what he would say for the position he takes by supporting the reaction forces. I think the Ukrainian people will find courage in themselves and listen to their opinions. The elections will be won by stronger forces than they fight in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u91	The word is given to Belarus. Get ready, Shibka. He's handing over Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u92	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine has a moment of truth and an election day. Never since the independence of Ukraine, the fate of our children and grandchildren has depended on the will and will of every Ukrainian citizen. Today is the day. And it is up to us to decide what Ukraine will be like in a year, five years, and ten years later. If a national president comes to power and creates a government of national trust, he will carry out a program that has already been brought to every citizen. Ukraine will be on the path of rebirth and will be a great European state, a nation, a country among the leading countries. If you're in power. The current regime will be able to carry out its candidate with a strong breakthrough, Ukraine will face conflicts, severe crises and new poverty and trials. We shouldn't let that happen. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a senior branch, made a decision yesterday. The solution is to put an end to the fraudulent methods of conveyor voting, the use of resilient ballots, the formation of Sanders and the voting of members of these Sanders teams 30 times on routes that are early planned and agreed upon. We must understand with you that falsification of power is the greatest threat to Ukraine. I am addressing the President-in-Office of Ukraine. Dear Mr. President! History has given you one last chance to clean up before the people and do what is in your power to sign a bill approved by the Supreme Council and signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Otherwise, you will have a great responsibility to the people of Ukraine and history.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u93	Yes, I've changed my mind. Please, Hiccup. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u94	Respectable comrades! Respectable tellers! Dear Comrade Domansky! Dear Comrade Domansky, I repeat, if, unfortunately, Domansky has spoken harshly to the Socialist Party, but does not want to hear my reply now. I'm not a doctor in education myself, unfortunately, I'm not a doctor, so of course I can't diagnose any of the words he said. But I think when a man does something dirty himself, then he suspects he can do it himself. Therefore, I just regret that there are representatives in the Communist Party faction who may unwarrantedly make some plots to discuss the whole of Ukraine. The rest of my words are to be spoken by my colleague Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u95	Who? Please, Tomenko. Five minutes then Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u96	Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Thank you, Vitalia Šibku, of the socialist faction for giving me his word. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens! I would like to draw attention to a series of dangerous trends that have worsened in recent days, which are not only dangerous in terms of possible results of elections that are dangerous in terms of their impact on society. I have documents prepared by the Donetsk Railway, which are in agreement with Ukrazlnica, which lists 35 special trains to arrive in Western Ukraine and arrive in Kiev. If in Western Ukraine these special trains Ukrazalznica, as a state organization led by the minister of transport, is headed for people to work with resilient vouchers, about 30 special trains arrive in the suburbs of Kiev, most fearsome of which is that these trains arrive at the end of the elections. So these people aren't going to be observers, people aren't going to throw 203 punch-outs, these people are being brought in to provoke conflicts, to get in touch with them, and let's say provoke a situation in which the opposition will then be blamed. I am officially, Adam Ivanovich, to the Attorney General, the Minister of Transport, saying that these documents that I have today are no longer for passengers, she only drives bandits and drives only those people, as they come to provoke a conflict here in Kiev. So with that, to stop this abyss, so that those people who are completely, they're not the rivers anymore, as I said, on the other hand, they're sending the railway to the other side on election day, so that those people will understand that it's a criminal evil act: to throw innocent people into conflict. I had contact with these people in Zaporozky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk region, they don't even know where they're going or what they need to do. They were told, "The money has been received, and the instructions are given in the city when you come from Jasnawiat in Boyark, or from Donetsek in Bezradich." So once again, this is my MP's request, and I hope that the transport minister will not only steal 7 hectares of land in the Vodice Desert, but also answer to the law for what he does. Next, the dangerous trend that I want to say about is that today journalists and channel owners, because I know that, and the owners of channels against what is happening today in national media. What Joseph Cobsa has today is that we are not allowed into Western Europe and the United States as a human being. Involved in Russian criminal groups, he tells Ukrainian citizens: What is fascism and who are fascists. I think it's a humiliation that the country hasn't known for a long time. When journalists are forced to put these videos on all channels today, the authorities today forced journalists to put a video on Yushchenko’s death from day to day. And when the Donetsk newspaper Renata Ahmjetova "Today" writes that the grandmothers of the Enemies walk and say that Yushchenko is a good man, he will win, but in two months' time someone else will die and someone else will rule the country, for such things is no longer before the Law, you have to answer to God, because you have a Prime Minister, whose faith and every day prays before the icon, so tell your believing Prime Minister that you don't have to cross that limit of permission that was in Ukraine. If in the Donetsk region you smeared journalists on the wall, as Victor Fedorovich says, if you hung judges in one place, as Victor Fedorovich says, if you were building entrepreneurs, and these films are owned by Melnickenka, Jelyashkevich, who held a press conference yesterday, I'll hand them over. And they're declared by American experts, but that's true, you don't have to transfer these methods to the territory of all of Ukraine. Because prenatal management won't work. I was in Suma yesterday, where the area rose up against the niece representative of Szczerbán. Where in the word “Heart, ” the people react as they call them, which is the bandit who got out of prison. When people in Lebedin today hide from those skinheads who came from Donetsk because they go shopping and frighten people. Today, in student dormitories, girls are asked to stop the attacks of those mobsters who have been housed in student hostels. You have to think a little about the country you live in if you want to live in this country and think about the consequences of this banditry, which runs from one region to every other region. And I don't think banditry will go away. That's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u97	Please. The lines will come to an end. Thank you. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u98	Dear Vassili, Lugansk Region, Union MP. You know, respectable colleagues, we're a little bit in the room, I'm going to be more of a TV viewer and a radio audience. I want on behalf of, not on behalf of, but for all who are sitting, 450 people in this room or should be sitting, to apologize to all 48 million people in our country. Because in the last few months, you've heard so much, I'm sorry, you've heard so much dirt from this rostrum, you've heard so much that you can't call anything but politics and decency, that in fact my predecessor, speaking from this rostrum, probably it's time to go back sometimes, if not to people, to God. Come back. Because what is heard today from this rostrum, I am deeply convinced that it will continue to be said, will still be dirt. Whose address? In this case, it's unscrupulous. Unfortunately, I wanted to talk about a friend and that. In the rest of the time, I'll try to say. We talked to everyone. We, the politicians living in this country, are 450 people sitting in this room. We spoke of power being imperfect and quietly and peacefully buried the idea of changing that power through constitutional reform. Those who said more loudly that he loved the people, in fact both Our Ukraine and the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, sabotaged the constitutional changes. And power will remain, as a matter of fact. People change. And the principles of the organization of power will remain the same. There will still be one person who will be president, he will decide for everyone. And there was a thought, and there was a suggestion to change that as many people as possible participate in the decision-making process and, respectively, in the responsibility for those decisions. And that's why today, when they talk about what we're going to get after 21, I can tell you. Unfortunately, we are small as a country and as a people. Because power will remain built on the same principles. And those who swear more loudly today in devotion and interest in the people, in fact, once again, have buried constitutional reform. They buried the very opportunity to do as much power as possible to their populations. And today, when we talk about those who shout louder, those who shout louder, those who are democratic, they buried what is called democracy. Therefore, the well-respected inhabitants of Ukraine will, unfortunately, shrink into two forces. But those in this room who shouted more loudly, that they loved you, did the least they could to make a difference in the people's life. And so when they're scared today, whatever it is, it's confusing. I've only heard from this rostrum four times before from the allies and supporters of Yushchenko that he has a coma, no one else. Why do you anger God? Long live the man. He's pretty, he's cute, he's smart. That which ye bring upon him is what ye bring upon him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u99	Yes, the word Solomatin is given by Yuri Petrovich. Prepare the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u100	Yuri Solomatin is a Soviet man and a Soviet communist. In mid-October, there was a lot of noise in Ukraine's press that caused a vicious Russian script of 12 apoliticals, so they qualified themselves, Ukrainian writers, few outside Galicina and a narrow circle of right-wing plutocrats, but with large claims for all-Ukrainian messiahism. The first is Galician cultural guru Andruhović. The apolitical writers of the Galician spill allegedly opposed the candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents Januković and the candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents Yushchenko. Here are just a few points from this unusual appeal of writers to their readers, voters: Yanukovic is an owl and a muddy, Yushchenko is an opportunity for cultural diversity. Janukovic is an isolation from Europe and peace, Yushchenko is a border crossing, it is a mutual understanding. The choice of Yushchenko is a European choice, not an EPP, and so on. It's only on a Galician fan. Letter 12 goes beyond coincidence; it is a testimony to the true true Ukrainian messianic mentality of Galican. Galicians have their own history, but they want to privatize the entire Ukrainian history and rewrote it into their Galician order, with their heroes and their historical orientations. It's not just messiahism anymore, it's Galician aggression against Ukraine. So the fact is that little Galicina has earned the title of the all-Ukrainian “revolutional piemont” and teaches all the “daughter of Ukraine” she has to have history and what language she should have. Surprisingly, chicken eggs are taught! In fact, the current Galicina, in my view, is with its “leaders” in coffeehouses, the anti-Ukrainen counter-revolutionary Vandey, the “fifth colonial” Protestant Catholic capitalist Europe. So I have to repeat Julius Fuchik's famous words: "People, be watchful!“because the inspired heirs and followers of Dmitry Dontsev, Slava Stecko, Stephen Bandera, Eugene Konovaltz and other Galichin “heroes” have been and so far are in the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They are the main guarantors of countless American and German funds, and they are morally ready after a clear and free loss in the election of their candidate to the Ukrainian Presidents to strike Ukraine in the civil war on the Yugoslav and Georgian scenarios. It won't work! And you have to pay for your mistakes. Unfortunately, the main contributor remains the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u101	Yuri Petrovich, I'm the only one asking you not to insult Galicina, I'm the half-life of my life there, and you see, it's not too bad. So different people live in different parts of our only congregational Ukraine. Please, School, get Mironka ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to. My speech here, as much as the bitter words were said, and I am convinced that there will be so many more bitter words spoken after our, I am convinced of the victory that I wanted to leave here for, especially, the next speaking bit sweet, so that after the performance be so now, and then, and later, to all. Well, you'll see who's speaking, so, everyone else. I'd like to say two words on the subject that I've been speaking from this rostrum for exactly a month. A week ago, I'm sorry. I was then talking about the fact that I was surprised that we had not only dishonest authority but also an unfair candidate from that power. I want to read the answer to my request from the Minister of Defense of Kuzmuk. So if you're shown, if you can see what it's going to be: it's 18 words around here. Well, if we drop the "honorable" and the signature and all that. So I want to read one paragraph literally. "In fact, the matter raised by you is that the accounting officer of the Janukovic Reserve completed the Donetsk Political Institute in 1980 and was assigned a military title in 1987. And in 1999, he's a reserve major." So, I want to give you some help, Victor Fedorovich Janukovich finished this university in absentia. And like a medical student who finished the military department, I can tell you that they don't finish the military department in absentia, just like no one in the army does. That's why I didn't get an answer until now, whether he had that title, and I knew it, but how it could have been attributed. I know how you can assign a professor's title -- it's people who vote, it's people who are given appropriate degrees, academic degrees, conscience or absence. But in what way was it possible to become a reserve major without serving in the army or finishing the military pulpit? This is a question that doesn't just bother me or bother me -- it gives me the suspicion of everything else that Victor Fedorovich Janukovic said in his biography. And when the general of the army spoke to me here, I want to say, how do we respect those people who steal military titles or get them, let's say, not exactly legal? That's why I want to stress again. Here's a confirmation. We have here the number of this decree, number 212, there is everything, except that there is no right of a person with two convictions -- let them be taken down -- to serve in the army, he has not studied in a higher education institution without notice, and he has no right to be named major. I say again, this power, it's going to do everything, but it won't get anything, you can believe me, except defeat from its own people, because the people can't win. And 21 numbers we're going to prove it. If we have to, we will fortify our victory for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u103	The word has been given to the national MP Mironenko. He's got Bilozer instead of Policechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u104	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! I have to make a statement. A leaflet was distributed in my district. A leaflet on behalf of me, a Ukrainian national deputy elected twice in the 5th constituency in the town of Kerchi Lenin district of Crimea, stating that I support Yushchenka. That's a lie! It's a dirty lie, it's a lie, it's a lie. Second, it's a crime. I request the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to bring a criminal case against a candidate for Presidential office in Yushchenka, who claimed that regular communists “support me”. I'm the same regular communist! I'm a regular member of the party, joined the Company in 1990 and now a regular communist. He was elected as a regular communist to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and never intended to vote in favour of this person. When I told the socialists, I resented as much as I could, because I have to explain to the people, it's a big lie, a big bitch that I'm against Yushchenko, and the leaflet says yes. The socialists laugh: that's right. I'm saying: Then you're all scoundrels and scoundrels! Thank you very much for your support of Yushchenk! Because he's being separated. It's a capitalist idea. Because you refused socialism. Because you betrayed the people. It's been a long time. You sold for American funds. You serve the U.S. and the oligarchs and that ad, and it's a hell of an ad. That's what she's testifying to. Why? Once again, I'm against Yushchenka. It's a lie that I'm Yushchenka. First, he is still the same privatizer. He is accompanied by Pinzenik, who is the author of privatization and price leave. Yushchenko himself was a banker who provided a monetary policy that smothered the economy and drove the economy into a shadow that deprived the economy of funds. As a result, so do many others. He's taken over both the economy and the people. It denied the opportunity to receive, benefit from, in 2000, a large number of workers in 2001. They're veterans, disabled people, Chernobyls, teachers. Can you believe the man who told me that I have the support of regular communists? A lie, a series of communists throughout Ukraine would not vote for it in any way, not only because I said it, but also because nationalists, Bandera receivers, who shot Ukrainians in the back, liberators of Ukraine, were defending all the same ideas, they were for capitalism, like the same bandits. I'm against Yushchenko because he's for joining NATO. This will cause great damage to the economy and people. I'm against Yushchenko because he's against the single economic space of the union.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u105	Don't be alarmed. Charming Oksana Bilozer will talk, she'll calm down. Prepare Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u106	Oksana Bilozer, Christian Party, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear listeners! Don't believe all this lying that comes out of this rostrum. The truth in your heart, listen to your heart, turn to your conscience, and to your own conscience. And I'm now addressing my colleagues, artists, educators, representatives of the Ukrainian intelligence. We are at a time when Ukrainian consciousness is awakening, a time when people are set up for the good and their active creative work. A national wave of insight and awareness of the real reality of our lives is a humiliation of poverty, helplessness, cruelty, lawlessness, and moral degradation. And all of this is happening to us on our own God-given earth, rich in talents and riches, generous with our traditions. The process is now being done in a qualitatively new way, what the Bible calls the separation of grain from half. One chooses to progress and another chooses to be hammocked. But the time of truth clearly came when we realized that we were beating consumers on our land, consumers of dirty technologies and foreign manipulations. And on October 31st, despite the brutality and cynicism of power, we sentenced her and said: Enough, enough lies, enough intimidation, humiliation, pressure, blackmail, and we chose our leader of popular trust, our national candidate for President Victor Yushchenk's office. Friends! The truth is many, the truth is one. And those who are called upon to create culture, to preserve tradition by touching on the human heart, commit a great sin by giving their talent to serve temporary nomenclature needs, to our fellow students, we are all educated, in this momentous time for Ukraine, to bear in mind the great responsibility to the people, to the generations to come, the responsibility to carry on our creative work, the vital truth of life and morality, and to miss it not because of the deceitfulness of political slogans, but because of the conscience of that nation. And can you look into your children's eyes when I ask why we live like this, not better? And who chose such a president. Not the other one? Can you give them a dignified answer and explain your position, so - called? Why does the president you chose make two mistakes in one word and have a criminal face? I urge you to be honest, honest in front of the country, in front of your educators, your admirers, and finally in front of yourself. It is up to each of us to a large extent that our civic position depends on what the faces of the Ukrainians will be after November 21. Scared and sad or bright and joyful, but I believe and know that the world will become as our prophet Taras Shevchenko said: "and the world is God's like Easter and men like men." Do not be afraid, God is with us!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u107	Yes. Please, Maria Marcus, prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u108	Maria Marcus, the Communist faction, the esteemed radio listeners, my dear countrymen, in October 1944, the Red Army adopted an inaccessible line of defense in the Carpathians and brought long-awaited will to the workers of the country, which German writer Anna Zegers called "Africa in Central Europe" and after visiting it in the 1930s. The population met the liberators with bread and salt with tears in their eyes, seeing not only the liberators but also their brothers, and the feats of gratitude made them forever in granite and bronze. After the liberation, the Carpathians set up the National Committees and demanded that the country be reunited with the Soviet Ukraine. 60 years ago, on November 26, 1944, the first assembly of the National Committees took place in Mukachevo, which unanimously adopted the Zacarpathian Ukraine Manifesto with the Soviet Ukraine, and which elected the Supreme Authority of the National Council of Zacarpathian Ukraine. Under the agreement between the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia, on June 209, 1945, an agreement was signed in Moscow between the USSR and the Czechoslovakian Republic on the reunification of the Zakarpathian Ukraine from the Ukrainian Soviet Union in accordance with the will of the Carpathians, which was legitimized at this historic assembly. A session of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR on the basis of the historical documents mentioned above was adopted on June 30, 1945, by the Law on the Reunification of the Zacarpathian Ukraine with the Soviet Ukraine. These events were made possible by the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War, and they completed the reunification of all Ukrainian lands in the only Ukrainian Soviet State, and they opened the way for the workers of the Carpathians to economic and cultural development. At one time, Carpathia was proud to be called flowery and ordinal. The reunification of Carpathians with Soviet Ukraine is a triumph of historic justice, a vivid example of the transformation into a Lenin nationalist Communist party. It provided political, economic, and social conditions for the turbulent development of the Carpathian Empire, which has not been available since 1991, after Ukraine became part of the construction of capitalism. Now it's scratching. and its beauty, forest and natural resources continue to be destroyed. And we are landowners whose grandparents have been known around the world to seek earnings and a better life on a foreign land in foreign lands. Dear countrymen, welcome all of you from your 60th anniversary, indeed, a decisive event in the history of our country and the entire Ukrainian people, held on November 26, 1944 in Mukachev, the First Assembly of the National Committees of Carpathians, and I am confident that only with the Communists will you be able to overcome the difficulties that have come our way in the last decade and restore the socio-economic achievements that we have had in the years of Soviet power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u109	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, follow him, Trophimenko. I don't see him, so I'll stay ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u110	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, block of Viktor Yushchenka, “Our Ukraine”. Dear listeners, dear friends! Strange things are happening today in our society and in this room. When another worker's rights fighter comes out here and supports a recidivist gang member, it may not be surprising in principle. How, though, can he support a person who sends a grey veteran to Zitomir for three letters? And now he's telling me that he just stepped away from the icon. How can we respect or support a person who calls the Ukrainian people goats? I appeal to the rights of the workers. I am addressing a respected general who was not interested in the title not only of "professor" but also of "major" in our Prime Minister, and in which he received it, in which colony he served in order to get that title. And he goes on to other subjects, watering other people’s filth, forgetting that his military title obliges him to at least ask where these titles are taken from other people who wear them. How can this general support again the same person who said that he would not give the mints his hand, that is, to the law enforcement authorities, he would not give his hand to the people in the pursuits. And who promises amnesty to those who are imprisoned today by lying to them because it is not his question, only the Supreme Council can resolve the matter. Others call for peace, knowing that, and agreeing that hundreds of trains from their regions will take them to Kiev for the civil war of miners. Rather, it would be directed to raise the safety technology on the mines so that the miners would not be killed by packs. And then crocodile tears did not pour the Prime Minister on the graves and near the graves, telling him how he cared for them. I think it might surprise us. But I'm surprised by other things, more thin things. For example, why should the authorities arrange for a parallel vote count if it is in charge of the CLTC today? Why is it parallel? All around the parallel calculation, opposition is organized to know the truth. And here the authorities are taking and organizing a parallel vote count. The goal is to block the Central Electoral Commission's activities, to nullify it, to actually start an information war against the Ukrainian people against the opposition on the servers of this parallel voter count, and to intervene in the parallel calculation of the opposition. This war will begin by the nighttime drinking of champagne by individual supporters of this political force, shouting at the whole of Ukraine through the overpowered canals of winning their candidate. I'm sure this victory will never happen. I'm sure that the Ukrainian people and the Chinese I represent have already identified themselves -- look what Kiev has become: Kiev has become a civil city, Kiev has become a patriotic city, Kiev will never accept a rabbit. And I say that outspokenly when I see people seeing these orange ribbons that are majoring in every car. We don't want to live in the zone today!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u111	Yes, the word has the national deputy of Ostrash. He'll be followed by Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u112	Colleagues, I'd like to answer Mr. Domanski first. Indeed, I am ashamed of your words, even though you are a gray-headed general, but bear in mind that Yushchenko is from a family where Father went through not one concentration camp of the Fascist. He didn't run away from one concentration camp. This is the man who served in the Soviet army as a border guard while he was hanging his term with another candidate of President Yanukovic. I was going to say to Mironka, who here apparently wrote the text of this letter of support to Yashchenka, and here I said to him, "My God, don't scare us, Mr. Mironenko, we know all these things!" I'd like to tell all the communists that you didn't keep at least five percent just because your regular communists realized that you were the service of this power of Kuchmi-Janukovich, not any communists. And today there will be only one choice for a private communist: between an honest and decent Yashchenka and the former Rabbit Janukovic. What's more, 89 percent of Russians today support, don't support, don't want to have a former rabbit president, this is a survey in Russia that all of Europe knows about today. I would like to say that we have actually witnessed a war against the Ukrainian people. Yes, you Communists, remember that today our students are being gassed, today our Ukrainian villages in Cherkaščina are being beaten, today practically all the civil servants have been raised up, and they are trying to put them back on their knees through hard-core coupons. But I would like to tell you that the Ukrainians have already risen from their knees. I want to bow down to the Chinese, to the whole of Ukraine, to the students for saying they're Ukrainian people, and you're never going to bring them back to the stable. You know, today was a great opportunity for our President to open locks to democratic elections, but he once again showed that he refused to sign the law, showed that he was a representative of this Kuchmi-Janukovich gang, who today is trying to keep himself in power by any criminal anti-constitutional means. Today the whole of Europe, the whole world was looking at Kuchma with the hope that he would sign this document, because, in fact, it would be a falsification of not one and not two but four or five million votes. Sadly, however, the President of Ukraine failed to fulfill his constitutional duty and failed to uphold the fine law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, thereby taking full responsibility for what will take place in these elections. I'd like to go to my countrymen's cottages: tonight, at eight o'clock in the evening, a train from Debalcevo and Kramitarska will come to you, and I ask you to meet them with bread and salt, because these are also our Ukrainians. Don't worry, they also know that by force, by force, they've driven them on hungry trains and they're trying to force you to do that, or actually vote for candidate Yanukovic. But the Ukrainians will win, and we will wake up on Monday in the new Ukrainian state, with a new president and a new honest Ukrainian power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u113	Yes, please, Puzakov, get ready for Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Comrade Kručko's Georgi Korneevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u115	Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u116	Respectable compatriots! Today, the attention of the people of Ukraine is attached to the presidential election campaign, which is determined by how you hear and now, by extreme aggression and dirt, by zoological anti-communism, by demagogism and cynicism, by a time of hebels' scale of lies that threatens to exacerbate the situation in society and even by bloodshed. And it can't help but cause anxiety. But I look forward to the wisdom of our people who will not be deceived by those thieves who act on the famous saying, "Keep the thief!" But in my speech, I'd like to stop at an earthly, everyday, but in my opinion, an important issue that has been repeatedly raised in this room, and which is also speculated in the electoral struggle: on how the lungs of capital 0, the green masses are destroyed, which have always been adornment, and if you want, one of the brightest features of our city. Infamous facts in the Vodica Desert have recently been published. The names of well - known politicians, national MPs, government officials were called, but for some reason the names of only one camp were called, although among those who loved this beautiful corner for the construction of villas, and some of them of little size, there were also high - ranking people, including deputies from the opposite political camp. My name is Ivan Stepanovich Plush. In some cases, it is said that the more insidious break - up has been committed in Conchi Zaspa, where large areas have already been looted and occupied in the green zone in the area of the government’s holiday home, as well as a few miles away on the road. The trees are already being cut down, and palaces are being built. What was done in the days of the governments of Yushchenk, Kinakh and others and is being done in Kiev and its suburbs right now is a crime that is somehow not being cut down by the authorities. In recent times, green islands in the capital, without exaggeration, have become increasingly engrossed and destroyed in government and in the Supreme Council. I could name a lot of these examples, especially for a small five-and-a-half-a-hare in the area of Kiev and the Vineyard, where there are five large houses, the BAF hospital -- and they're trying to build another 23-story house. Repeated appeals by residents of these buildings, as well as by national deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on Housing, have not stopped this breakup. I ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request for the Cabinet of Ministers to consider the problem in the complex and the thefts. And before the Kiev City Administration, they're asking me to stop trying to destroy the green area of Pechersk in the area of Grass and Clovis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u117	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. The word has been given by the national deputy Noshchenko. Karmazin will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u118	Dear Chairman. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 constituency, Hard Ukraine faction. I returned yesterday from my district, set fire with the head of the Suman government to the gas in the northern middle of the Ukraine. The government of Janukovitch did what two previous governments failed to do and allocated 4.3 million dollars, built a high - pressure pipeline of 19 kilometers [19 km]. It's a business, not a promise, a word. The other one. There is intense pressure from opposition, from individual national MPs, including leadership, on local executive authorities, and members of the electoral commission. In particular, 163 constituencies are threatened with incineration, physical extermination. I say I'm in charge of law enforcement, but I will do everything I can to protect my constituents in all available forms, including those taught by the opposition today. Yesterday, from this rostrum, Yuri Andriyovich Karmazin said, I read literally, "In Swan. The Suma area in medical school is worse than the tsunami. The director of Udodine has 32 fighters who have already raped the girl." I'm going to publish an official letter from the director who's in the hospital. He writes, "To the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania. Karmazin, a national deputy in the Supreme Council, shares false information about his principal at Lebedin Medical School. They don't live in the school. There are people who come to the hotel at the school. Before 31.10 this year, there were agitators from Yushchenko "Our Ukraine". There were no rapes at all. The school’s administration was forced to send 18 students home yesterday to calm the parents, the children, who also received the information. I, director of Udodin, have been in the hospital since 13/11. Regrettably, respectable people, Ukrainian national deputies, spread false information, fueled by hysteria. Help from the militia raid is added." Yuri Anatoliyovich, Parliament, all of Ukraine know you as an active, principled national MP. You've been tricked today. You were set up today. I leave 10 to 15 seconds for you to apologize to the voters and calm them down. I'm using this rostrum, just like my colleague yesterday to correct the rape in Lebedin town and calm the voters before the important election on November 21, 2004. At the same time, I turn to my constituents. I have been in my district 68 times, and I have carried out all the questions that the electorate has asked me to support our only candidate, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. It's moving forward, it's moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Please have the word of Yuri Carmazin. He'll be followed by Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u120	Yuri Karamzin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. I'll take the word in reply and then I'll say it quietly. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Yesterday, in Lugansk, five policemen stopped a car carrying the Lugancane newspaper. Yesterday, four cars were stopped with this opposition newspaper. They fear the words of the truth. The goal was to retrieve the release of the newspaper Lugancane, the truth was not clear what the former mayor of Red Lucianenka was doing, who was illegally removed from that position. Elections were held without the decision of the Supreme Council. This is what happens in that region today. Now I was approached by journalists from Zaporozhye. There journalist of the independent newspaper Saturday, Taras Vasilko, went to the festival area at night, where the Russian singer Baskov and Povaly performed a re-election concert. Vasilenko went to a concert in an orange - bound scarf. According to police officers, it was a crime. And on the basis of this young journalist alone, the police were scolded, beaten, and taken to the Reyvidium before the concert, without even explaining why. He was held for two hours in a cage, where he was brutally beaten and his ribs swollen. Vassilka's already taken the beating. Along with him were the students from Kiev, Winnitz. They're now forced to take the tape off in orange all over the city, and where they can't do it, they're drinking trees. I ask that you consider this statement to be a parliamentary address to the Attorney General and to the Minister of Internal Affairs. Dear National Deputies! There was much talk about bribery. I want to hear from this rostrum the response of the Attorney General, the head of the Security Service about what Mikola Melnichenko said on October 21st, and he quoted it as being officially stated today in the protocol that I quote Yanukovich's conversation with Kuchma: "We've already been burned several times, the communists have been deceiving us, and so on: they're taking money -- they're doing everything the other way around, then they're not believing in the net." I want to hear the answer: Was it or wasn't it? Next, Janukovic said, "We will raise the stakes to the ceiling. We're going to take them out anyway." That's what Janukovic said, about such colossal bribes, and he went on to say, "They know, as it is said, that Donbas is not chasing, and that's what happened." I want to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people to the fact that in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, which was printed yesterday's issue, here's what's written: " President Yanukovic's political objectives," I want to show this to the acting head of the Supreme Council, the first deputy to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Adam Ivanovich, since when does our newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" think Janukovich is his president and so writes this, what is it? And that is how people today have a conscious effect on the nation. This is the basis for removing the editor from his position in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u121	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you, the person should be fair, the Voice of Ukraine printed both your candidate and not your candidate, and he has everything, and he's got everything, and he's already printed your decrees that he doesn't have yet. Please, Buttercup. Zubanov gives the word to the Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u122	Vladimir Leschchenko, Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigovishte, Honorable Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable Voters, let's go down to the ground. On Sunday, November 21st, Ukraine celebrates the celebration of farmers, our hardworking farmers, the day of agricultural workers, their tireless work all the time magnifies their own people and nation. It's always good at keeping a sincere Ukrainian spirituality, it's in the condition of 13-year-old destructive experiments and the growing movement in the countryside, in self-sustaining conditions, that our citizens put food and raw materials on the table for industry. It's an honor and honor to our Ukrainian peasants. On behalf of the Communist faction, I warmly welcome the workers of agriculture, all residents of the Ukrainian village, with a professional holiday. I want strong health, strength and endurance at this critical time, success in personal affairs, and high achievements in agricultural production. The Communist MPs in Parliament are always working hard to create such a legislative field around the village and agriculture that our laborers live better to the flower of the Ukrainian village. Unfortunately, though, things are not working out because in all its branches, there are now representatives of the oligaric clans who want only one thing: to continue their wealth at the expense of robbing and exploiting millions of ordinary workers. They have adopted the national good in industry and other fields. They move to the most sacred of all, the earth. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, thanks to the constant insistence of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, thanks to the wise heads of parliament who realized that trade in land, especially in today's conditions, was a sin, gave a gift to peasants until the Day of Farmers, overcame the President's veto on trade in land. It won't be taken from those who live and work on it for two years, because the villagers are so poor today that they can't buy a single piece. But capitalists are already so rich that they'll buy it all out in one moment. You can't let that happen. There is now a worldwide campaign on the occasion of the Farm Workers ’ Day. And it's right to honor the laborers. But there is no good reason to celebrate because the village is ruined, a third of the land is not processed, most animal farms and tractor states are destroyed, the social sphere is destroyed, the rural population is extinct. And the President, who holds a ten - year term in this highest public office and is the cause of the devastation in the countryside, is proud of the high achievements of the agro-industrial sector. Does he think that our peasants, who in the eyes of these "achievers", live not in Ukraine, but in the United States? The village needs help. This requires the establishment of Soviet power, the transition to a socialist development path that Communists seek. And only then will all questions be resolved. As for the re-election of the President of Ukraine, this is no longer the case for the people of Ukraine. Nothing will change. Both of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u123	Please, it's Richter's word. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished and distinguished voters. I'd like to address you first today. People who really will depend not only on the fate of our children with you, but on the fate of our whole nation. It's up to you to remain patriots of your state, which you turned out to be on October 31st. What is happening in the last days of this rostrum? I don't think there's a person who doesn't know how many nationals have the right to judge in this room, to shoot, to disperse, to hang someone or to hang themselves. And it seems to me that today we are the only ones with you who want to end the campaign provocatively, and so that you and I can make our own choices tomorrow, calmly aware of our civic responsibility. I want to talk to the representatives of all the regions and, above all, the people who live in Donetsk today. I want to apologize to you, children who are filthyly barking and cynically demeaning from this rostrum. Five million people today are being polluted by "Our Ukraine," and they're called different words, and I don't want to repeat it. I want to tell you, my countrymen from Donetsk, and all my fellow countrymen, the Donetsk country, the patriotic land, it will continue to carry out its mission -- to raise the well-being of the state, the well-being of each and every one of you. Donbas is brave, Donbas is patriotic, and he will do anything to make the only indivisible Ukraine continue to be a state of his own. I want to say that the name of the patriots of Donetskina, who were here speaking from the other lips, was in vain a cynical insult because everyone knows that Viktor Yanukovic, the man who made himself, has achieved his own hard work, and man. which today is insurmountable and unrepentant. So respectable citizens, respected countrymen, respected voters, respected national MPs! The truth will break through. This truth will be revealed on November 21. Politicians, respected voters, express only their point of view, and you will make an assessment. We thank you for your support and support of Viktor Yanukovic. Victory will be in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u125	Please, Komar, follow him, and we'll finish. I'll give the replicas, I'll give the replicas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. Mikola Komar, "Regions of Ukraine" faction. Dear radios and television sets and the 19 deputies I counted in the hall! I am not because Adam Ivanovich is now in charge, but completely objectively, and this is not only my opinion, but also the other deputies that Adam Ivanovich is not the only one in the leadership of the Supreme Council who is taking any action to keep the Supreme Council from turning it into a laundromat from a lie, from what they want, trying to do with it a pre-election campaign, but not enough, because, well, let's say, I'm going to give this example right now, a speech, let's say, Tomenka. In front of him, he was given half the performance, half a minute and a half, setting Tomenka's Rules for 5 minutes of unconscionable lying from the rostrum. I was also given three minutes, and in general everyone except Tomenko, who is here for five minutes. Why? I don't understand. I'm going to call the names so that MPs have the opportunity to take the replica, and in the reply, it's okay, people talk from this rostrum. I want to give you the words of Ostrich: "honest and decent Yushchenko" and "bad Yanukovic." Honest and decent Yushchenko didn't appear in court yesterday, well, they say he's sick. I brought him to trial for claiming from this rostrum that I poisoned him, well, the authorities poisoned him. I took this transcript and brought it to trial. So, "honest and decent Yushchenka" would have to take the time to go out to this rostrum and say, "Sorry, good people, that's what happened." Of course, Victor Andryovich is recovering, and I wish him good health, but the conduct of other deputies in the faction of "Our Ukraine" and those who support this opinion is now just sad to have to work in this room, where lies are lying, where the oppression of hysteria is. And it's not emotion anymore, it's something else, much worse. I urge you to change your mind, to respect the law, to respect human dignity, including your own. The elections will not end, and no one will be able to set fire to public unrest in the country. They're going to take Yanukovich because he's doing the job, not pushing the story out of power. And I'd like to welcome a peasant with a holiday in the last few seconds, because these are people who deserve our sincere respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u127	Thank you, Mikola Stepanovich, you've praised me so well, and then a spoon, but it's not my fault. I explain: Tomenko was recorded for the performance, and he had three minutes, and he was given two minutes of school. So he had every reason to speak for five minutes. I didn't do anything wrong here. Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u128	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear citizens, dear fellow national MPs! Of course, we have witnessed many performances today. And you can't help but look at the next provocative expressions of our opponents, including the representatives of our Ukraine: the trains that today seem to be being transported for provocative action. I want to remind you, citizens of Ukraine, of the calls we witnessed yesterday and the day before yesterday, and it's from the leader of "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenk, to go out on the field tonight and demand your victory. We have the right to make our own choices. This choice is given to us by the Constitution, and we are the bearers of the higher power on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine and on the day of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But to demand victory, as we are called upon by leaders from seemingly opposition, is a challenge to our society with very dangerous consequences for all of us, for our mothers, for our children. Today, official propaganda in connection with the presidential campaign ends. I am convinced that these elections were the most dirty elections in the history of Ukraine. They used everything, even the disease of their leader, even the health of a people’s MP, just being exploited. And yesterday's and today's claims of being heard, first of all, by those people who surround him and call themselves his accomplices. We want Viktor Andriyovich to return to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as soon as possible, and along with us, he continues his legal activities. And I want to remind you of the responsibilities of those people who are today calling people to the streets. November 21st is not the end of life. And we're going to need opposition because opposition is a sign of democracy. But the opposition should not discredit our country, but rather criticize and stimulate power to increase the well-being of our citizens. We are not ashamed to go to our citizens. We care about their welfare today, the increase in wages and pensions. We urge you to go to the polls on November 21st, make your choice. By the time we meet at the polling stations, let each one make his or her conscious choice and exercise his or her constitutional right to choose power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u129	After a minute of talking. Please, Karmazin. You stay behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u130	Dear Ukrainian people! 21 numbers will be the Day of Archistrite Michael, the leader of the heavenly army. I think it will be the end of all dark forces, and all of us will be in place. With regard to those who carry in Tripoli, Shrine, Irpen, Drogobych and everywhere, only 63 members from Donetsk and Luhansk 63. For the last time, such transfers were made into war, gentlemen, for the last time in the war, such massive transfers of human power were made. I don't think the Lord of Archistrative Michael will allow it. It's about Swan. Here's a written message, I'll never say anything that's not confirmed. Here's a green bus with donuts, a medical school, then a Lebedin restaurant, 60 people moving around the city by cars 011-48 CB, 888-29 CB, 605-.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u131	Please, the Ostrich microphone. You don't have three minutes. Microphone from Ostas. The replicas are made from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address the daughters after Mrs. Richter. I would like to say that the faction "Our Ukraine," all the political parties that belong to the faction "Our Ukraine" deeply respect and respect the daughters, deeply respect and respect their choice, deeply respect their language, culture, the history of the Daughter who has really given many beautiful sons to Ukraine, including my teacher, because I consider John Mikhailovich Jubu to be my teacher. I only wish that all Ukrainians had a chance of honest and free will. As far as Yashchenka’s disease is concerned. I respect Mr. Komar and I think he'll say the last word in this story and after the election and the Yuschenk himself. And I want to say that there is a Ukrainian belief that if gossip is spread about whether a person is sick or has died, he will live for a very long time. I am sure that we will live for a very long time and will be proud of this choice of our Ukrainians. We're gonna win!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u133	Please, Domansky. After him, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u134	Respectable voters. The representative of the Social Party allowed me to be targeted as a national deputy and my organization. A few years ago, a social leader called our people rams. Who gave whom the right? He must've had the Soccer first, that there were rams. We do not regard our people as rams, and we believe, and we respect our working people, and we have always given them our deep respect. Second. There's a lot to talk about trains. Someone assigned themselves the right to gather thousands of people. And cool off the blazing heads, and cool off those who call for disobedience, for the hypocrites. Cool it. And you might also have to bring echelons to put these exploding politicians in place. And the last. As an officer, I believe that the man who is lying to the people is saying that he has been poisoned, he goes to the Presidents, he has not yet become President, he is lying to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u135	Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u136	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, a few minutes ago I was told to lie to myself, to write a leaflet that allegedly calls for me to vote for Yushchenko and so on. First, a large number of voters held these leaflets in their hands, and they are witnesses. Secondly, I would like to punish this liar-oursist through trial, but I am convinced that he will enjoy a parliamentary mandate. I recall with sorrow the fact that the Central Electoral Commission, which used its mandate in the Centresbject, broke the law, broke into the Centresbject, forced the Central Electoral Commission to postpone consideration and, as a result, disrupted the Centre's decision to have our fellow countrymen vote and then beat the militia with their feet! It's ours! And they have benefited from parliamentary mandates. I think we should undo this MP's inviolability, and "ours" is not a place in the Supreme Council and in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-19-m0.u137	Yes, Your Honor, on November 22-26, the people's deputies will be working in the districts. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on November 30. I call on all the national MPs who are in the session room and beyond and all the Ukrainian people on Sunday to make the right choice. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
