ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can start our work. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:07:01]] They registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the national deputy Leluka Alexi Volodymirovich. Let us greet him and wish him every good thing. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pisarczuk Petar Ivanovic, from the MP's faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united and its membership in the MP's "Region of Ukraine". Honourable National Deputies are invited to participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the heads of the district and Sevastopol City Council, the Kiev City Head, the heads of the district and Sevastopol City Administration, the city heads of the district centers. In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, the issue of the prevention of anticonstitutional acts and separatarian practices threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State is first addressed. The working group that was established by the Conciliation Board’s decision dealt with such rules and procedures. A report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - within 20 minutes, a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine - up to 30 minutes, questions from factions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and answers to questions - up to 30 minutes, statements from factions - to 5 minutes. Next. Go to the decision of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We agreed that before making a decision, if necessary, we would announce a 30-minute recess so that the factions could determine their attitude towards a given point and the draft working group as a whole. We agreed to close the discussion on this issue of other breaks, or technological breaks, not to do. There is no objection to such a question? Yes, from procedure and motive, please record for 3 minutes. We exchange our thoughts. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev First, I asked you to turn on the broadcast to the area, and there's a lot of people there. That's the first one. The other one. In this regard, you do not foresee a speech by the members of the Supreme Council, but you do speak from the factions. I think that's going to get rid of the very essence of our conversation, and each of us has the opportunity to express our attitude not only from factions. This too needs to be done. And I'd like to. In order to address this issue, we also consider the possibility of resigning the government, if there is such a conversation, leading to this, and the resignation of the Bilocon, who actually managed the militia's activities along with the gangs, particularly in Zakarpatta. On the other hand, there is a national deputy named Yuri Orobec, who suffered from a gang attack that was later arrested by a police unit and later released. This requires that we also have it as part of our conversation. And I'd like it done immediately, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, is there no objection to including a broadcast on the street? Please enable a broadcast on the street. Colony, faction of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Please pass the word to Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u5	Vladimir Pehota, faction of Ukraine, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, today's request to vote not to make a ten-time vote or anything else. We have to follow the Supreme Council Rules on these issues somehow, so that we don't have street and inside pressure, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u7	I think it's a very correct proposal, although when we made the decision 276 November, we once had a vote on the return to the item. We didn't have any other votes. We just voted on the basis, and then we took every point in general. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u8	Fucking Communist faction. Please give the word to the leader of the Peter faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u9	Peter Simonenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u10	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The tension in society is increasing, and every one of our reckless actions, or word, may not reduce this tension, but may lead to radicalization as a whole. So I'm proposing that we have this question, and we're considering preventing anti-constitutional actions that threaten the sovereignty of Ukraine, because anti-constitutional actions in the West of Ukraine, the destruction of the very vertical of power, have led people in other regions of Ukraine to fight for their rights and to defend their rights. No one is asking the question of separation, but they are asking the question of authorization, that they are today forming the economic, financial wealth of the state, and that money does not go according to their needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u11	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. Let us turn to the question that we have identified for discussion first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u12	The word for the report on the prevention of anticonstitutional action and the separatist expression that threatens sovereignty and territorial integrity and territorial integrity of Ukraine is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u13	Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 27, 2004, halted the escalation of tension in Ukraine and calmed the world. With this in mind and on the basis of this, we should assess the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the only state-owned representative body. Only today can it maintain civil peace and tranquillity in the state, its territorial integrity, and the predictability and predictability of events. Since the state administration systems are no longer in place, the law in the state does not work, and only by responsible, radical political measures can the situation be levelled, entered into the legal field. Now we have to force, force, and enforce Parliament's orders. In this connection, I would like to remind you of article 91 of the Constitution: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts laws, regulations and other acts by a majority of its constitutional composition other than those provided for in this Constitution." Thus, decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be followed, and if anyone does not like them, refer to the Constitutional Court. Presidential elections were first turned into political and, in a few days, constitutional crises. Now we're on the verge of a massive, systemic crisis, and here again is the need for decisive action. There is no time for sentiment and persuasion, as there is no time for infertile appeals to dialogue. So today every decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be adequate and timely, and if you want hard. We seem to be following scenarios that develop and run for us, react to one another, and appear to be different. The latter is a threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State. Therefore, the principled and acute assessment is to hear the facts of proliferation, particularly in the territory of Eastern and South-Eastern Ukraine, of separatist and autonomous sentiments, which, contrary to constitutional norms and current legislation, seek to establish both certain political forces and government officials. This has been reflected in the actions and decisions of the local authorities, especially the management of the district administrations and the councils of Kharkiv, Lugansk and Donetsk regions, in particular. And let's talk about the Westerns, calm down. The extension of powers, in particular with regard to the subordination of power structures, the extension of executive powers and the consideration of the limitation of supply of raw materials, the cessation of counting to the State budget, the initiation of the creation of illegal and anti-constitutional territorial structures. Dear National Deputies! You've been given an original legal conclusion, an initial legal evaluation, and then you've analyzed all the decisions you've made. Please read them carefully, there's all of it, and we'll get to it. It has come to the point that the Secretary -General of the United Nations has urged Ukraine to maintain its unity, sovereignty, and territorial integrity, which are essential to the Ukrainian people and to regional and international security. And we have no responsibility for juggling words. At the same time, it should be noted that these events occurred during almost one period of time, while foreign mediators were in Kiev to resolve the political crisis. In addition, it is evident that the decisions of the local authorities in certain areas immediately brought up the old issue of the possibility of the Ukrainian federalization. As an alternative to implementing similar spontaneous initiatives of local leadership, it is called the possibility of separating certain areas of the region with the prospect of further integration into other states. I am far from thinking that individual leaders of the region are thus protecting their choice, both in the east and in the west. There must be a limit. must be sacred and untouchable, which is why we cannot trespass under any circumstances. If there is no respect for the law, we should at least consider the responsibility of our children. And obviously we need to reach a mutual agreement not to apply to the followers of one side or the other of any kind of repression. This is also a catalyst for stress. And these are realities that obviously need to be talked about. Special attention should be paid to the fact that the likelihood of the spread of separatist sentiments in Ukraine has been presented in a number of media outlets as an inevitable phenomenon in the light of the geographical distribution of supporters of the two presidential candidates, as a result not only of the last election campaign but also during the 2002 parliamentary race. Recently, the trends in reporting events in Ukraine have become even more prominent. However, even a preliminary analysis of the development of this unwanted scenario for Ukraine indicates that it remains more reasonable and theoretical, despite the fact that certain political forces in our country and, if not excluded from it, try to make it marginally relevant. I would like to point out that it is time for the Ministry of Justice to put in place legal mechanisms for withdrawing political parties that are in violation of the law. We must note, and at the same time, the issue of non-compliance with the 1992 agreements regarding the granting of guarantees to our country to preserve its territorial integrity in exchange for the export of nuclear weapons from Ukraine. So far, no statements have been made by the country's territorial integrity guarantors. He is silent, does not initiate this issue, nor is our foreign ministry. On the other hand, the intention and action of the representatives of the regional authorities of Ukraine to declare autonomy in one form or another in their area is contrary to the constitutional norms and the current legislation of Ukraine, which makes it impossible to implement any wrong decisions taken. Thus, according to the second article of the Constitution of Ukraine, our state is unitary and its territory within the existing border is complete and intact. Any change in the state system of Ukraine is not possible in the process of bypassing the central executive and legislative authorities, and only by holding an all-Ukrainian referendum. In turn, the All-U.S. referendum on these issues can be declared by the President of Ukraine as a national initiative, requiring at least three million citizens who have the right to vote, provided that the signatures for the appointment of the referendum are collected in at least two thirds of the areas and no less than 100,000 signatures in each area. It shows that the attempt of any regional authority of Ukraine to declare it itself Or another part of Ukraine, in one form or another, the autonomy of its region will be completely unconstitutional. No referendum held in one or the other administrative and territorial units of Ukraine can resolve the above-mentioned issues. Local referendums can address only local issues related to the authority of local self - government. The organization and holding of local referendums on changes in the territorial order of the whole country and the claim to be bound by their decisions is an open and exclusive violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and criminal and legal measures are to be applied to the organizers of such referendums. In addition, further activities by regional authorities with the spread of separatist and autonomous sentiments may be taken under part two of article 110 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, and appropriate measures may be taken against them by the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ukrainian Security Service. For help: Part Two of article 110 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code stipulates that deliberate actions taken for the purpose of the territory, or state border, of a violation of the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine, committed by a person who is a representative of the system, either repeatedly or under prior conspiracy of persons, or in combination with the burning of national or religious hostility, are punishable by restriction or deprivation of liberty for a term of between two and five years. These actions may be recognized, for example, by the declaration of a certain part of the territory of Ukraine by the sovereign State or by the actual establishment of political and economic sovereignty at a certain administrative and territorial unit of Ukraine, which means that it is effectively recognized by the sovereign state, despite the call for the creation of new territorial units and their implementation. So this is an anti-constitutional attempt to organize and implement measures that in general violate Ukraine's territorial integrity. In this connection, I have had to remind myself that at the meeting of local council members in Severodoneck, there were repeated calls for the establishment of a southeastern state in which the federation was unknown. Although objectively speaking, these calls did not find their way into the convention. In themselves, however, they are sufficient for the Security Service and the Attorney General’s Office to give them a legal assessment. Criminal acts are also punishable by violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, which have the effect of proclaiming new autonomy in Ukraine, which does not entail changes in the boundaries of the territory or state border of Ukraine. Such actions should, under certain circumstances, be viewed as exceeding official powers as acts that clearly go beyond what is given to appropriate officials. Calls for the creation of a new autonomy in Ukraine is an unconstitutional way to instigate the crime envisaged in article 365 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, "The Abuse of Power or Service Status". If actions related to the creation of new autonomy are not constitutionally made by officials, they may, under a valid criminal code, qualify as a crime, provided for in article 353 of the Criminal Code, “voluntarily assigning power to the official person”, but calls for such actions not by officials as incitement to this crime. So from a legal point of view, all actions, including public calls, aimed at unlawfully violating the existing state system and the integrity of Ukraine, should be checked for signs of criminal acts. Under such circumstances, the legitimate word must be given to all those who have the authority to respond accordingly to such acts, especially to the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. And those who claim that the Russian Federation is closer to them are closer to the Russian Federation than they are to Kiev, except for everything else: legally, it is impossible for them to join certain Ukrainian regions and to join the Russian Federation. First of all, this would be contrary to Russian legislation. Yes, the federal law on the order of admission to and formation in the Russian Federation of a new subject of the Russian Federation clearly defines the procedure for changing the composition of Russian Federation entities in connection with the granting to a foreign State or part of the status of the Russian Federation. In particular, acceptance of the composition of Russia by a foreign State is carried out by mutual consent of the parties to the signing of an international treaty. At the same time, an international agreement can be made solely at the initiative of a foreign state. This situation in itself reflects the adventure, the power of the initiators of the process of disconnecting Ukraine from Ukraine and part of its territory. However, it must be borne in mind that if the current political conflict continues, with a tendency to grow, there may be a situation in which the central authority of Ukraine will be paralyzed or destroyed, and the country will be outside the Constitution, which will automatically break down legal barriers to both autonomy and secessionist trends that take place in latent form. I would like to point out once again that the events of the last days give rise to the idea of the credibility of the anti-Ukrainian plan, which is part of an attempt to split Ukraine by various principles, including by geographical indication. In particular, it is argued that the media were actively discussing the dimensional polarity of the Ukrainian population before the start of the pre-election campaign. West to Yushchenka, East and South to Yanukovich. Particular emphasis was placed on the economic backwardness of the prostetric areas in the background of the industrial power of the regions, which the electorate is sympathetic to Viktor Yanukovic. The topic was also actively required by many politicians and technologists. Consider at least the portions of the map of Ukraine that appeared almost every evening on separate national television channels. What's not a zombie? It is also necessary to give a fundamental assessment of the whole wave of other decisions, as well as the actions of local governments and individual leaders of local authorities, which clearly go against the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This is also true of the formation of district and district councils that claim to obtain a portion of the authority. And about trying to take over the functions of the central authorities of the Ukrainian government. For example, to substantiate internal affairs, to suspend the tax recalculation of the State Budget, and to ban the broadcasting of the channels in the territory concerned. First of all, such acts should be strictly and unequivocally condemned, for they also objectively threaten the State and its territorial integrity. This is also about cases where the Council decides to exercise its own powers under the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, it can delegate to the relevant government. And it creates an executive body like this, for example, in Lutsk, in Ivano-Franco, in Ternopolis. There is also a violation of the law, a violation of the law, although there are no violations of the powers and functions of the Central Authorities of the State. However, we are trained to insist and explicitly demand that these councils do not go beyond the existing laws, to immediately bring our decisions into exactly line with the Constitution and the valid Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Much more serious than their possible consequences are the decisions of local councils or the actions of individual heads of local public administrations who, using the situation in the country, seek to seize the authority of the Central Authorities of the State and the finances of the State. These decisions and actions have been a frank manifestation of separatism, and we need to be frank about this. They may have been drawn to emotions in the heat of controversy. Under any circumstances, we must immediately reverse such decisions, stop trying to seize the prerogatives of power that belong to the entire Ukrainian state. If this type of decision and action is a conscious act of hostility towards Ukraine, then the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, should react to them as to how they should respond to social and dangerous activities. It should also be recalled that in the event of a violation by the local council, by any local council, the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, both in the East and the West, and at the Centre and ignoring the demands of the authorities of the State and making these decisions in accordance with the law, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may appoint such councils on an orderly basis, thereby disbanding its present composition. In particular, I would like to point out that it is unacceptable for government officials to participate in meetings that discuss the possibility of an anti-constitutional change in the state system and other actions that affect the integrity and sovereignty of the state. I'm not talking about the initiatives and the concrete actions of this direction on their part. Again, from what political power they would not come out and in whatever region they would not vote. Taking into account the potentially dangerous step of such decisions and actions and resulting from the need for a stake, and if you want to eradicate them in the bud itself, the Supreme Council has to take the proposed decision, as set out in the options contained in the project. This approach will not only preserve the Ukrainian state but also encourage the development of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, the real approval of the peoples of the country and the rule of law. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should not only declare that it has to take responsibility for the situation in the country but also do so in reality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u14	Yes, the report is welcomed by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Finance Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u15	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today the political and economic situation in Ukraine is quite complex. It has emerged at the peak of a steady four - year economic growth. Ukraine has maintained its financial stability, which has been achieved in recent years at the cost of a colossal effort. During the ten months of this year, the domestic gross product will increase by about 13 percent. This is the largest percentage in all of our years of independence. Ukraine gained confidence in investors, we got high credit ratings, we made corporate loans. Direct and foreign investment in 9 months of this year amounted to $1 billion,321 million, or about 2 times that in previous years. The banking system works well, if commercial banks' loans amounted to 6.6 percent of GDP a few years ago, they accounted for about 40 percent in 9 months this year, i.e. the economy. The financial system received the corresponding financial results. This has been the work of our entire nation over the past 13 years. Unfortunately, today we note a week after the presidential election's second round has led to a sharp deterioration in the situation, especially in the economic and financial spheres. This threatens the gains of all the Ukrainian people, and I will give you some examples. The coming of the State budget from external economic activity has been reduced to a quarter, resulting from a sharp reduction in external economic goods over the last few days, on average by 20 percent, and on the western border by almost four times. Stimulating the implementation of a number of external trade agreements with European countries and with the United States of America has had a negative impact on the activities of the major export sectors. It is possible to reduce previously projected exports of goods and services by 7-10 percent. Internal taxes and congregations reduced the average daily income by 2.3 times. Helpful. If by November 20, the average daily income was about 200 million dollars, the last three days would be 84 million dollars. Let me give you a few examples. On the last day of November, we have a number of these comings to the State budget. The Volinsky area is 66 percent. Unrecovery is about 16 million. In Donetsk, about 50, non-recovery, about 241 million dollars. According to Zitomirski, 48 percent, 46 million unaccounted for. Ivano-Franksky, 76 percent, 8.9 million unaccounted for. The Lviv region is about 75 percent, the non-recovery is 34 million dollars. The sum area is 43 percent, the non-recovery is 61 million. Thermal is 63 percent, the non-recovery is 9 million. The total non-existence for today is about 1 billion 148 million dollars. From 25 to 26 November, compared to the same dates of October, the budget for the industry fell by 34 million dollars, in the fuel and energy complex by 10 million, in transportation by 9, in the agri-industrial complex by 9, in the construction by 26, in the trade by 38 million dollars. This is in the last two days. I want to remind you that this year we haven't ruined the state budget. At the beginning of November, the government made a decision, according to which all over-planned revenues in full and not 50 per cent, as previously foreseen, would remain in the local budgets to address, above all, the socio-economic challenges and infrastructure development of cities and villages. That is, those regions that have been seriously involved in manufacturing and entrepreneurship in their territories will have correspondingly planned budget revenues, will receive additional funds. For example, in the last 10 months, seven regions have already exceeded their annual plans. And about 150 million will use them for their needs. Such a decision was made on the basis of the predictability of the financial situation and the stable implementation of the budget. Today, such additional support for local budgets is at great stake. There are times when the liquidity of the banking system began to decline. As a result of the outflow of funds and the reduction of the available balances of total funds. We are again, unfortunately, returning to the crisis of payments in fuel-energy, oil-gas, transport complexes, housing and utilities. During this month, the debt for natural gas from thermal power companies increased by 90 million dollars. Calculations with gas suppliers are critical. At this rate, we will inevitably come to a balance of the entire gas transport system, a break in the execution of external economic contracts. By the end of January 2005, NAC Naftogaz-Ukraine had to pay off some $180 million under the contract with Watt Gazprom, and the late payment of gas would be deemed to have been unsanctioned by the fine, which would have a negative impact on the reconciliation of the entire range of issues of cooperation and would lead to a confrontation in relations with Watt Gazprom. The level of payment of electricity to the wholesale market, the energy-efficient companies in November were only 86%, while the cost savings by the end of November didn't reach about 420 million dollars, I'm going to stay away from the text for a minute, and I just want to say that the fact that we got together yesterday, and then the ones we started to work with, that only yesterday we got 86 million dollars and 156 million dollars today. The rate of development of the transport complex is losing, and in November as a result of political instability on the last day we have a drop in freight as a result of simple industrial enterprises compared to November last year by 5%, a decrease in transit traffic by 4%, a decrease in the income of transport companies by 5%, a loss of revenue of Ukrazlaznica by about 100 million dollars, a decrease in the number of seaports by 300 units, a decrease in port freight processing by 500,000 tonnes, a chain reaction of coal producers, a decrease in calculations, and some companies have completely stopped paying for coal supplied to the thermal power plant. You and I have already experienced a time when, due to inadequate calculations, there was no heat supply, there was a time-consuming pay-off between businesses, and there were indemnities to the Pension and other social funds. Social programs may be at risk. In the past, more than a year has gone by to unlock such a problem. We really want to go back to that. This is the price of just a week of instability in the country’s political life. We will be rejected economically a few years ago if we do not take decisive steps to reinstate the government. The achievements of recent years in the sphere of relations, both with international investors and with leading rating agencies, can be overturned for many years. International investors are quite sensitive to a variety of risks. You could see that right away, both at lowering national Eurobonds and at increasing the size. Over the last few days, the price of our government bonds has fallen by only 3 percent. Eurobonds with maturity fell by 1.25 in 2003. I would also like to emphasize that lowering ratings will not only impact the image of the state in the world but will make it much more difficult for domestic enterprises to exit to international capital markets and their inter-economic ties to foreign counterparties. If, until recently, our companies have been operating on advance contracts, they are now being scrutinized. So the degree of confidence in our manufacturer starts to drop. And all of this happens at the end of the year. In the economy, that's another blow to the population. We should not allow you and I to lower the social standards that have been achieved. And a lot has been achieved. At the beginning of the year, the current debt of wages has been reduced by more than twice the minimum wage in the last four years by 3.2 times. And since January 1, 2005, we have offered to set a minimum wage of 262 bracelets, and since December 1, 2005, 282 bracelets have been offered to keep the ratios in the salaries of budget workers. There has been a marked increase in the salaries of budget workers. In 2003, budget salaries rose by 32.2 per cent, and in 2004 they increased by 28 per cent. In the past four years, budget workers’ salaries have grown on average 2.4 times, 2.5 times in education and health care. I'm proud to say that the salary in November is going to be 690 dollars, and in Kiev it's already over 1,000 dollars. We realize that's the average wage. We realize that today's wage is not yet enough to ensure a standard of living. But important steps are taken, and we are on the right track. This year, public social assistance for the population has also been increased. Once a child’s birth has been helped by uninsured individuals compared with the previous year by 1.8 times. On average, government social assistance to low - income families has increased by 30 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, these aren't just numbers. These are real incomes that gradually improve the lives of our citizens. I heard that yesterday. I'm going to be distracted from the text again. And I'll say they say we got into overpayments. I'll tell you: that's not true. Anyone who understands the budget system knows that incompetence and overpayments are the same. Five billion, frankly, is overpayment to date and 11 billion, which is 2.5 times more -- direct understatement. Speaking of which. What's $5 billion? This is only a partial month of payments to the State budget. Therefore, no March can be mentioned. A few figures on the economic situation. In the coal sector of 10 months 2004, 122 clean-up drums were introduced, coal production against last year increased by 1 million tons and is expected to reach 80.3 million tons. Over the period 2001-2003, annual coal production decreased by 4.1 million tons, accounting for about 77-78 million tons. During the 10 months of the current year, debt from wages in this area has been virtually eliminated. One more question. Unfortunately, the 2005 budget process was slowed down. This is another issue that needs to be addressed immediately. I would like to remind you that if the budget is not adopted by the beginning of the year, it is not only a change in the emphasis and priorities of government spending that makes it impossible to plan its development for both state institutions and for every citizen. In particular, I remind you that most of the budget consists of social expenditure, education, health care, science, and other institutions that are held hostage to temporaryity and instability. And because the social standards that we put in the 2005 budget are much higher than the standards this year. Until the adoption of the State Budget Act, capital expenditure is also prohibited for the current fiscal year. Therefore, to my conviction, regardless of political passions, the budgetary process next year needs to be urgently renewed. The government has processed all proposals made by legal entities that were submitted to the Supreme Council during the first reading of the draft budget and the proposals made since October 1, 2004. We came out, first of all, of the need to increase the social orientation of the budget, to ensure balance and to make its indicators realistic. I am sure that this document needs urgent attention. I wanted everyone here to understand, there is now every possibility of stabilizing the financial situation in our country. I am convinced that the situation can be rectified. And our citizens need to be protected from political risks to a decline in living standards. A few words from the draft decree you've been given. The government suggests that we complete and redraft the draft decision, taking into account our proposals. They are: all branches of power and self-government move from political battalions to a clear implementation of the existing legislation on financial and budgetary discipline. Repeal all illegal, unsanctioned decisions of headquarters and authorities and self-government that violate existing budgetary legislation. Ensure that the planned rates of income and budget expenditure are implemented at all levels. To the local authorities, priority should be given to directing the budget costs of all levels to pay wages, social benefits, energy, and other social measures to support citizens’ livelihoods. To ban the leaders of institutions, organizations, businesses from exerting undue pressure on the community’s atmosphere, and to provoke widespread demand for goods and cash. Regulatory and administrative authorities should take immediate and strict measures to violate existing legislation with broad public awareness of the results of the media. The Supreme Council should give a proper assessment to destructive forces and oblige political actors to take steps to unlock the government. And by the way, thank you for unlocking the government's house. The Cabinet of Ministers, ministries, and government departments are starting to operate. And to the end. I'm personally, I'm not afraid of retirement or anything else, I want to say one thing, we've been working and we've got results. If someone thinks we're leaving a country with a balanced financial system, with a government budget deficit, that's not true. Yesterday my wife tells me, she's been in a cab and a cab driver as much as she says, I've been driving all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u16	I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's show your manners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u17	The government scolded all the time. That's good, but that's not fair. I'm leaving 11 billion dollars to the State budget. Plus five billion monthly arrivals. 16 billion bracelets. It's three months of the state's life. We have a billion $100 million in the currency account, that's enough for all external liabilities payments by March of the month. In the National Bank's currency accounts, $10.5 billion. Who has the right to say that we have the instability of the financial and banking system?Oh, my God! We have a million. We have a million 800,000 tons of grain in the state reserve. We will live peacefully next year, without shocks or crises. Even after two or three days of indecisiveness and inaction yesterday, the government has finally begun to work, we have already begun to correct the situation. Help us, we're ready for constructive work. Together with the opposition, they are ready. Let's sit together. None. No government in the world works without mistakes. And we're not guaranteed from mistakes. We made mistakes, too. But to contradict us by balancing and pursuing a non-economic policy is not true, that's what I'm trying to say at the end. And I'm going to stand for that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the First Deputy Prime Minister Mikolia Janović Azarov. We agreed that the questions would come from factions. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. "Our Ukraine," Igor Ostash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Azarov, please tell us how do you appreciate the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in those actions related to the declaration or, in fact, the idea of autonomy? Did the Prime Minister really violate the Constitution of Ukraine, break the laws of Ukraine? And please tell me, could the governors without the permission of the President of Ukraine take such steps? Is this a planned action by the President of Ukraine and by your government? Because, for example, I have no doubt about it that it was actually developed around the President of Ukraine and with the involvement of clans who fear for their property in these regions? And tell me, please, my entrepreneurs say you're collecting taxes until March, including in advance. And you say that now the treasure is empty. This is evidently due to the fact that you spent virtually all your money on elections and especially the money that was to be directed to the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u20	Dear Igor, you didn't listen to me when I answered that question. I've already told you, I'm going to switch to Russian, I repeat, the phenomenon of overpayment and understatement is the phenomenon of one plan. It is important that the overpayment no longer be inconceivable. We don't have this situation in the country, it's a common phenomenon. What is considered an overpayment? For example, advance payments, etc. So it's not until March, it doesn't have any overpayments. Today we have an overpayment of about 5 billion, and the mortgage is 11 billion, and given the penny, the fines are over 20 billion. That is, the State budget should be 4 times more than the State budget should, so no overpayment of a speech is required. Now, I never said that the treasury is empty, on the contrary, I said that for the present day, we have 10.5 leftovers in the government's currency accounts, in our one treasury account, 10.5 billion. Our spending per month is close to 5.5 billion, so we have a reserve of 2 months ahead of schedule, even if today we're all going to stop paying, we're going to have two months to quietly fund all our expenses, but I'm going to draw your attention that the last week's budget cut short, I've brought the numbers -- that's what we're worried about, we have to take decisions, decisive measures, steps, decisive steps so that this doesn't happen. And then we're going to fix the situation, and by mid-November it was totally normal. I am responsibly saying that from tomorrow, the Pension Fund is going to pay up to 284 dollars, and that's all there is to it. So, Your Honor Igor, I respect you, but this is a question you just asked me without knowing the situation. Well, my dear, well, I'm going to comment on the Prime Minister's actions, but that's not right, at least on my part. If you want to know my position, personally, I am against all separatian manifestations wherever they may appear. Because our main acquisition is financial and economic stability and growth. And that's why we can't put this at risk, this is our main achievement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u21	The floods, the faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u22	Nikolai Janović, the sustainability of the State budget and the sustainability of local budgets have demonstrated a sufficiently stable work by both Governments and local levels in this regard. Even the recent political conflicts have not allowed the situation to fluctuate. I would like to hear from you what is at stake here today when we, in the political battalion, have forgotten about the 2005 budget process. We remember the moment when the adoption of the budget in May could not defuse the situation until the end of next year. Do we not get involved with these political battalions in another more dangerous and more serious disaster?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u23	Dear Vassili Ivanovich, I have said on many occasions in this room that politics is politics, battalions of battalions, and budget. And the budget should be adopted in a timely manner and, when adopting the budget, all policies of different directions and views should be consolidated. And everyone must defend their position, but the budget should be adopted by 15 December if we are to maintain with you the normal rate of development of the Power next year. And from this rostrum, for example, I'm talking to respectable communists, and we're proposing that you and I work on the budget. We are prepared to consider your proposals on social issues within a reasonable framework. I'm talking to our Ukraine. We have cooperated with her for no year, and we know that we can and can work together. The adoption of a timely budget should therefore be of full interest to all political forces. Now I'm saying what a sight. We have a budget growth of 35 per cent. Throughout the year, the Government has been working to harmonize the various programmes, the largest programmes. These include, for example, the rural development programme. I'm talking to the agrarians. It is planned to increase wages and other social benefits as from 1 January. If we do not implement the State budget before 1 January, we are working on the budget last year. This would mean that all expenses of the next first month after December would be cut by a minimum of 35 per cent. We have already agreed on all the budgets in the areas. That's where they're sitting. It's totally fine. We have already drawn on the increased expenditure of the area budgets. So I tell you, Your Honor, influence your deputies. You're saying that if this doesn't happen, the grant budgets, and we've got about 20 of them, won't get grants, subsidies and other payments from the State budget in a timely manner. Therefore, the price of this issue, I personally believe, is much higher than the many other goals that are now being set.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u24	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u25	Mikolo Janovich, I'm just following up on this question that you've raised by giving an answer. How can you remember, even though in such circular figures, what areas and what amounts are counted in the State budget and what areas where these grants are received from the State budget? And if these recalculations are going through right now, they're going to be subsidized. And the second question I have is this. Do you guarantee that if the opposing party gives order and takes people away, you guarantee the payment of pensions, which is what people care about most right now, and the wages paid to the budgeters? And the third question I have is this. This is where the different questions about the numbers were raised. As an economist, how much money do you think it took to keep this stock going? That many people? Go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u26	Dear People's Deputy Masenko! I can do it by memory, and I have the reference material in detail, how much? What areas are listed by the State budget? What areas are being reached? But I wouldn't want to do that. I would not like to do that because it would not add constructiveism to our discussion, would not add understanding, but would also add opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u27	Yes, the people must know! Well, what are you talking about? But I would not like to do it again, I stress. Let us contrast the regions because they are different, they are different, because this is what happened in the development of the regions. And if the industrial capacity of the South-East, which was generated by the efforts of all, say, such a large State, is located in the south-east and the West and the Centre of Ukraine are industrially less developed, it is with you that it is our task to ensure that all regions of Ukraine are well developed. By the way, our Government, in defining a regional development programme, has never assumed that the South-East is a priority and the West is the other way around. And in response to you today: all the grants and subsidies for November are fully listed, and today, I stress today, today, the 30th number, we are doing a sweep with all the areas, and where there are no wages in the areas, there is not enough money to calculate gas, electricity, housing and utilities, today the State Treasury will list those amounts. Now it's about guarantees. Well, I already said that after a few days of dismal government yesterday and today, it is actively working to restore this situation. Therefore, I think that, over the next two weeks, it is possible to stabilize fully the work of the Ukrainian people's economy and the entire life-support system. I am therefore on the Conciliation Council of factions and Governments yesterday, and I have proposed: we are absolutely open, we are ready to provide every day and positions, and the opposition with all the information about the decisions taken, no one should think that any decisions are taken “under the carpet”, no one should think that any decisions are wrong. We are ready to discuss. This requires only one thing: that public institutions work properly. And let the politicians deal with the political crisis. But life in the state should not stop. I spoke to many opposition representatives yesterday, and I feel that this approach is understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u28	Mikola Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine faction, please. Mikola Janović, you will give written answers from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u29	Mikola Janović, in support of your words, I want to say that I called in the constituencies of my constituency yesterday, and, indeed, the state has fulfilled all its obligations. I also received answers to calm my voters down about not reducing or diverting social benefits and pension payments. I'm going to have a question like this, your government has accepted 46 billion from the government of China, and now the spending portion of 92 billion is planned. Or in connection with these events that are taking place today, will there be no adjustment to the budget in part of the recovery of the benefits and benefits that were halted back in the year 2000. And the specific question that the executive authorities are also interested in at the places when the State Budget will be submitted to the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u30	The budget is ready for consideration. The government developed it, examined it, and it's in my possession. We are ready as soon as the Supreme Council sets a date of consideration ready to report on the 2005 budget. One thing I wanted to do here is make sure that in two weeks we stabilize the situation and get to that development trajectory that we had in mid-November. You know, if we don't stabilize the situation now, we're definitely going to have to cut back on the budget. I have made it an urgent task for the Ministry of Finance to develop several predictive options. What we have now allows us to live without fail, to live properly, but if we do not fix the situation, 2005 will have to be corrected. But any option would include, above all, keeping all social benefits at a level no less than this year. It is certainly possible to reduce major development programmes. But let's face it, I'm an optimist in kind, I think we're going to deal with this situation, and we're not going to push the atmosphere of our people's uncertainty right now. I think that we will manage the budget that we have developed, and we will approve and implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u31	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u32	Dear Mikola Janovich, in the dozens of meetings I've had all over Ukraine, and I've spent more than 200, people everywhere are asking about these pension supplements. So will they continue or not? Will this be the norm of the law or not? We don't see the cost in the budget. How to get out of this situation is a very difficult question, I understand. And back to the subject. You're now acting as executive director. Give a clear legal assessment of the separatist activities caused by the center. You have to say your word about it, because people want to hear the government's position. And finally. You're a tall professional, no one can deny it. How do you see that you will cooperate with the new authority, and with respect to quality you can then consult. [[in what form or what]] But I believe that professionals of this level must be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u33	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. The issue of pensions. If you want, it's a matter of our honor and conscience. When we made that decision, I personally took it very hard as the Minister of Finance I understood the full cost of the matter and all the responsibility. But after I put my signature under this document, I told you on this stand, and all the Ukrainian pensioners, "You will receive this pension 100 percent in 2005." The entire deficit of the pension fund, which we are looking at in the amount of approximately 7.5 to 8 billion, will be covered by the state budget. In this version of the budget, which we will present to Parliament for consideration on second reading, we have foreseen this. Therefore, in 2005 we will go to a reduction in any programme, but this programme will be implemented 100 per cent. I don't think any of the politicians will have the courage to rescind this decision and we will legislate it, Alexander Alexandrovich, necessarily. I think it was a difficult decision, but it did somehow restore justice to our pensioners. And our plans were to further differentiate between pensions in 2005. Now it's about the legal evaluation. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not going to give a legal evaluation, I'm just saying my personal opinion that you can't allow now, in this situation, thoughtless speech, no office, there, autonomy, anything. In my opinion, to say, well, it's just not acceptable, and so you can protest, you can defend your candidate, you can and should, but it reminds me, by the way, that the actions of the opposite side, they also sometimes limit to what you can't allow, I told you in my personal interview, and I say to you, turn away extremists, radicals, we all know that you are absolutely grammatically respected people, you can negotiate with the same Assadchev, he's constantly mocking me, but I know that he's a professional and you can agree with him, he hasn't agreed with me all the time, so I'll probably speak now, but he's a responsible person, he's not an extremist, so pull off the extremists, on the one hand and on the other, I think he'll agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u34	Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk, People's Agrarian Party faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u35	Mikola Janović, on part of my question, I have already received the answer that, in fact in due time, the economy of Ukraine was built, including the eastern regions, and today the division of Ukraine to the East and the West not only anti-State, but also anti-moral, and the sharing of money and so to claim. And the second question is, how is the government going to take measures to stabilize and prevent inflation today, stabilize the bracelet, and the payments, the pensions that the government has made and that help the people today to improve their material situation have not been ruined by the loss of money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u36	Dear Catherine Timofeevna, first of all, there is no basis for the shelving of the bracelet now, absolutely. I'm saying it in an absolutely responsibly. And those who say that are triggering a massive demand for the dollar. And we had it in September, October, but we stood up. And you know now, despite some complications, the bracelet is resistant. But when some, including economists in a narrow circle, start telling me that we can solve this problem with a single stroke, let us assume. I answer: it's irresponsible, it's absolutely irresponsible. You can't even fool around like that. So Ekaterina Timofeevna, calm down, there will be no failure. And what he does right is, let's make sure there's no high inflation. Well, first of all, it's a reasonable monetary and monetary policy. That is, people's income growth should not precede, however unpopular this may sound, but I must say what I am, should not precede the growth of gross domestic product or, if forward, within reasonable limits. The Government is in control of this situation. The second ingredient. Our market must be saturated by all, not by a market of sore demand that cannot be met within the next week or two. I've already told you about the grain, the flour, the flour. The Government is now holding large deposits in the State oil reserve. The Government now has a contract for the supply of gas and petroleum products with companies. Well, I called it sensitive positions. Therefore, we are not now in any commercial position, including meat, for example, to solve this problem. There is no deficit that could accelerate inflation. I'm talking to you again. Two weeks of decisive joint action - and the situation in the country will be as it was in June, July, May, whenever. No questions, no problems. There should be no pressure on the situation, in some cases artificial.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u37	Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u38	Please pass the word to the Turk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u39	Turkinov, Yulia Timoshenko block. Mr. Azarov, you don't think that a government under the direction of which a massive forgery has taken place, and that has led to a political, economic crisis in the country, that a government that coordinates the actions of separatists should resign itself and not force people to throw you out of government premises. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u40	I'd like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the national council. Mikolo Janovich Azarov, I apologize on behalf of the Supreme Council. Let's stick to some decency, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u41	I will not answer and take the same position as that MP. But I'd like to ask you, I've remembered the thought I was about to give you. That's what I saw. Here, in the figurative form of one of the classics, both horses and humans were mixed together. You can't do that. Let us split up in the judgement, separate the financial and economic situation, the stabilization measures, and take this action. Consider, for example, the ruling of Separatism, there, and there. It is likely that such assessments should be made by a court of law. What's that about? Yeah, one more. Vladimir Mihajlovich, may I tell you a parable that was told on the Conciliation Commission of the Supreme Council yesterday? I was looking at our students and I remembered, I was at Moscow University. And in 66 C.E., our deep-respected academic, Petrovsky Grigory Ivanovich, received a telegram from the Moskov Gorkom party to send 20,000 students to the top of the potatoes, he answered in a telegram that he was responsible for training professionals, not for a handful of potatoes. And they hung their answer to the board before entering Moscow University. And I haven't had a potato in five years. So I turn to the honourable leaders of opposition, studentism is a powerful force, and it has shown its political will, its support. I personally appreciate it and consider it a sign of political maturity and, let's say, of indifference to the fates of the country. It's okay! But right now, I'm just asking you to go to the Dean's rectors and let this studenthood go back to normal. And if that's what it takes, you'll pick them up again. They're back. Or they will rise and come out. But let's just say, let's get the country back to normal, at work, in science, in education. It's our business to deal with these issues. I'm sorry, Vladimir Mihajlovich, for stepping down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u42	Yes, the distinguished national MPs. Question time is up. Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions. I ask the honourable leaders of the MPs and factions to apply. Now, Nestor Shufric is invited to the floor by the factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The next will be Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u43	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable Guests, Honourable National Deputys of Ukraine, Honorable Members of the Government! We are now witnessing the adoption of a series of councils. The decisions made by a number of councils of local self-government bodies from Lviv to Luhansk, and we cannot today deny that these decisions do not meet the rules of the Constitution, do not match the legislation of our country. They pose a threat to the system of government of our nation. I want to quote Mikhail Gorbachev: "The parade of sovereignty ended in the collapse of the Soviet Union." We will certainly present claims to the leaders of local self-government today, but we cannot fail to admit that, including you and I have made a number of decisions that are also contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. So perhaps we should start with ourselves. Today, by means of political decisions, we make decisions that are normative acts, not statements and not appeals to our fellow countrymen and are of a completely different legal nature. Dear colleagues, today our faction has made very difficult decisions for itself. If you have noticed, we were late for the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and registered after the opening of the session. We looked at the normative acts of 13 years ago today, and we looked at where our independence started, but we looked at what started the breakup of the Soviet Union. Respectable fellow countrymen, respected citizens, distinguished national MPs! We today have the greatest responsibility to deal with those questions, the situation in our country. Among us is a man who made a historic decision in the White Ages, among us is a man who, through his heart and soul 13 years ago, missed what became a guarantee of our independence. And today, this person, along with all of us, is hurting to see that the achievements we have in establishing our independence, establishing our sovereignty, establishing our economy in its stability and development, are protected and further developed. Today, we are all talking about the same thing, about the unity of our country, about the integrity of Ukraine. We all stand on words, on the rules of the Constitution and the law, but in fact everyone stands in his own ambitions without seeing that we stand on the threshold of very serious processes, which, including today, we can pause. Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! I want to remind you that today we are gathered before the 13th anniversary of the historic referendum, which was held in Ukraine by the Ukrainian people, who have determined their independence. I will not now say that the decisions of August 24 and December 1 were contrary to the Constitution of the USSR, but it was the will of our people, the world community recognized us as an independent Ukraine. That is why we, the united Social Democrats, today invite all of us to unite around the main thing that we have around our country, around the integrity of our Ukraine, around our people, and to realize that we have a responsibility to our offspring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u44	Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko is invited to the presentation, since there will be two performances from the factions of the NDP, industrialists, and entrepreneurs, time will be divided in half. Get ready for Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine found itself on the brink of a breakdown of statehood, a loss of integrity, and sovereignty. The destabilized work of public authorities has been irreparably damaged by the economy and the links between the regions. Separatism in the western and eastern parts of Ukraine was a direct result of the conflict that arose between the main candidates and their electoral headquarters. Never before has a presidential chair in Ukraine been so expensive. This cost the destruction of the legal foundations of political processes, the threat of clashes among citizens living in various areas of Ukraine. I believe that today we should give a firm assessment of the management of those district administrations that have neglected their direct service obligations. I call on the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, the law enforcement authorities, to take a firm stand on this issue with proper human rights conclusions. Ukraine is and will be the only unitary assembly state. I also consider it necessary to hold a re-session of the National Security Council in conjunction with the Council of the Regions of the President of Ukraine. We need to figure out the reasons why this has become possible. I'm also addressing both candidates for the presidency. It is time to break free from the dictatorship of those who use your name. It's time to start a constructive dialogue and confirm our claims to the national -- I emphasize, national! - leadership. Dear National Deputies! The system of crisis in which Ukrainian society has become involved is evidence of the imperfections of Ukraine’s political system. And today, we need political reform -- the only way to stabilize the situation in society, in the state. The position of leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is particularly important in this matter. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvin, to be directly involved in this process and to become the principal leader of this idea. The position of the Chief of the Supreme Council today depends in many ways on the success of our work. The big mistake was, I want to say that, honourable MPs, I was in favour of social compromise and once again I propose to sign a pact on political stability and the further development of our state. And to the conclusion of the decree. I want to speak to President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine. I have given my word on this rostrum that I will never vote in favour of the Prime Minister's resignation, because five resignations have survived. I want to say that the President of Ukraine is deceiving such actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u46	Thank you. Let's finish, there's less time left for the others. Two minutes at The Onechuck's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u47	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Reverend Head! Mikola Onichuk, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine Dear colleagues, a political conflict that has already escalated into a political crisis, including the application of separatism in terms of its meaning, form and causation, has no parallel in the history of modern Ukraine. In its core, including during the new Ukraine, the deformity of relations between a citizen and public authority, which reached its climax during the presidential elections in October, and especially in November of this year. To a large extent, the level of this deformity has resulted from a substantial distortion of understanding of the nature of power, which is being considered by many who want it not as a means of serving society, but as a way to realize, not public, but corporate and private, political and business interests. The problem, in fact, is not even the extent of the distortions during the electoral process, but only that they were blind, but in fact that fundamental civil rights were ignored -- the right to choose their government, because the authorities of governments, as stated in the international human rights declarations, came from the consent of those they govern. Dear colleagues, on the draft decision, methodologically, if the Supreme Council is to take responsibility for the state of affairs in the country, it cannot limit itself to one recommendation, secondly, if the Supreme Council finds it impossible to take more decisive action, it needs to answer the question: how will the current decisions of the Supreme Council affect the social and political situation in the country, obviously not at all. Thirdly, with all the political nagging you need to be an objective, overwhelming majority of the government members, I want to turn to them now acted
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u48	Well, 20 seconds, either you finish or you end up with each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u49	I acted professionally and professionally. I refer this, first of all, to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the other thing that the Government as a whole, the members of his Government, in particular, were externally directed to perform certain functions, to participate in the electoral process and to this price issue today. Dear colleagues, until yesterday, it was thought that there was no more politically resonant subject than what happened on the field of Independence actually exists. These are attacks on territorial integrity, and we condemn this phenomenon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u50	Yes. Alexander Moroz, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to prepare for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u51	Dear friends, a very responsible moment today. We need to be honest about what's going on in the country. Our president recently said that he was leaving his post at the peak of the boom of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the President and I are separated from each other into intrigues with all the consequences that come from it. And all that's happening in society today is the result of this intrigue, unfortunately. This is followed by the actions of all Ukrainian citizens, a well - founded government, established deputies, established by the majority, including the Party of the Regions. I can talk about a lot here, but you're all feeling this situation. Yesterday's picture on TV showed this very brightly. Look at the position of head of the National Bank, he resigned, resigned. And everyone understands that he's a skilled specialist, he could be useful for work. I have to go, too. Presented including the Prime Minister. We understand very well that the administrative resources were used in the first round of voting with the efforts of the administration, not the government. The government was unable to do so. But in the second round, of course, Victor Fedorovich's team put the resources there. And what was created, the structure created by the President's Administration, began to work on the other side and failed to accomplish all the purposes that all the writers of this process thought about. It happened that the people spoke their word. And obviously, all we have to do is express our resentment about the fact that many of the executives who are so powerful can't implement themselves, because in the circumstances of intrigue, when it's necessary to personally please the manager, you can't implement yourself, and there's no benefit for the state. The government has long gone beyond the Constitution and the laws. You know that. I'm not going to go into detail like that. But he's forcing us all to work within the law. I'm sorry, it's cheating. You can't do that. And when today's established leaders of certain areas, you can believe that Eugene Kushnarov will take responsibility for creating a false republic, autonomy. And in a day's time, I'll give it all up. But the word is not sparrow, you won't return it. It has already been said, and the reaction must be because we are Parliament, we are responsible for the development of the country. Is that not understandable? So I think it's time to do that today. Many today depend on Leonid Kuchma’s position. And in order not to drag this process forward, you have to say frankly, power is gangrene, and you have to cut off the sick spot because there is no cure. [[Applause]] And we need to make decisions, political, balanced. I'm talking to my fellow Communists. The resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers must be based on the legal standard reflected in our Rules, item 8.2.1. We're approving the Cabinet of Ministers program for the entire duration of its activities. And this is consistent with the Constitution's rule of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to say no here, let's say, with evil in the cabinet, they're also hostages of this situation. But you have to solve the matter essentially. And finally, I'd like to go back to Leonidas Kuchma. Leonid Danilovich, you know there's something bitter I could say to your address. I have the right to speak. And you know I have every reason to say that. But today you also have a historic mission. Or you can do what you need to do for the cause. Send the Central Election Commission immediately. Make your bids. We're going to make sure that these candidatures are dealt with in the right way. There was a vote to be made all over Ukraine. Or else it's in real estate. finish the election process because it has to be completed. Because it's still going to be over, you know that. Make a decision on the Cabinet of Ministers. You can't go on with this. Make decisions regarding the Attorney General’s Office and those governors who must be punished for what they have done under your direction, sadly, under your direction. And then it'll all be what it takes. Because we have no other way out. Today, the state is on the brink of disaster. We have to solve the issues so that people can feel, there's a perspective in the state. There's a perspective for every person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u52	Yes. Kirill, please, from the MP's Alliance. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u53	Kirill's Victor, MP Soyuz, Lugansk Region. Today, we have many important questions to discuss. I'm not going to start with the most important. Not really important, that is what is at stake today in our day - to - day arrangements. What we call Separatically, I'm going to give you an explanation of what's happening in terms of the resident of the Luhansk region. When, in Lviv and Ivano-Frankivsky and in Volina, it was done, we were just looking at it. When, I love you too! When, in spite of some sharp words, some opposition figures seem to me to be balanced, they suggest that the Lugansk and Donetsk region be surrounded by barbed wire, right? So, yesterday, a minute! One minute! I'm looking at 5 channels yesterday because I'm looking at all the news that is to understand all the different positions. And one local self-governance specialist says, think about it, he says, "Do we have to disrespect the people of the eastern districts?".. Think about it. Should we disrespect them? As a resident of the eastern region, I don't remember once when I was wondering whether I should disrespect, for example, the inhabitants of the Ivano-Frankiv region? Every person has the right to respect. Our residents turned to their local deputies and expressed some concern. They came to the convention and said what our people thought. Despite some harsh speeches from the rostrum, harsh speeches, some intolerant, were adopted in an absolutely calm, balanced way, without a single word about separatism. That's why, my friends! I understand that when it comes to politicians, there must be a good reason to stir up the problem. No problem, no problem. I am the first to be the only, free and rich country in our country. That's the first question I've finished. The second, the only intelligent path that is now with us is to transfer all power to the Supreme Council. We need to mention with you the wise suggestions that were from our fellow socialists and to make political reform. To make a full political reform, to carry out some issues, a kind of imperative mandate, which is not the free will of the same MP, and to start working throughout the country, because it's easier for us to make balanced decisions here. Let's forget about this anger, because it can go very far. Next, the question of resigning the government. Whatever you and I say, the government has been doing well all this time. His primary duties as Prime Minister were qualified by the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to give you an example: we've never had so much fuel, both solid and liquid and gas-like at power stations, we've never had half a year's supply of nuclear fuel at power stations, we've never had two energy clouds in one year. By the way, there was no country in the world where the country would build two energy clouds at its expense in one year. So let's talk separately about flies, talk separately about cooking. And maybe the last. I was very, let's say, excited by some of yesterday's press conferences. I think we have a big election situation. I'm sorry, but I think if Victor Fedorovich Janukovic had one headquarters, not a lot, and that headquarters would be run by me, we'd be celebrating an honest legitimate victory for a week. Thank you for your attention. I love you all, we stop swearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u54	Mikola Nightshenko, the Hard Ukraine faction has a word to make, to prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u55	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters who are now listening to us! Members of the Hard Ukraine faction at today's early session have come to the conclusion that we have supported and supported always remain in the composition of the Parliamentary-Government Coalition, we support authority on the condition that the authorities work solely in the legal field, in compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and the current legislation. Apart from the political ambitions of resigning the current government team, I emphasize that there is no government team of professionals. Only the created strength reserve allows society today to avoid hunger, cold, inflationary processes, industrial and social disruptions. It's a reality. In the registered decree number 6369, mistrust is based on accusations of a so - called bread and gasoline crisis. I would take the decision of a government team to the positive, not to the facts that give rise to the mistrust of the government. The faction against double standards in society, the political crisis from Kiev has already reached district centers, districts, cities, villages, and villages, and has touched the very holy Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian family. Today, in the hope of a speedy settlement, all those who were sympathetic to one or another candidate to the presidents. And these are representatives of either 15 million or 14 million voters. The violation of a valid constitution, the laws in the east -- we've seen it -- has somehow not gained such wide publicity and immediate consideration in this room. And as soon as we became witnesses, when the other part of society was only discussing possible administrative and territorial changes, how immediately there was a noise and a place for the prosecutor's office. [[Applause]] Please. I ask the prosecutor's office, the security services to give a proper assessment of all the facts of the violation of the laws and the Constitution, whether it's a major violation or a small one. It's a violation of the law. Two words about power. The hope of good authority, fair authority should be based not only on the rule of law, but on the best in the world. But I'd like to talk today about what gangrene is. We remember when the authorities changed in 1990 in the Lviv region, but then we switched Communists to our authority. What are we doing now?Oh, my God! Are we going to change all the heads of rural executives, the heads of village councils? Are we going to change everyone who provides public services today? It's Utopia! So what I'm saying is, I have, for example, in the constituency today in the reserve -- in the reserve -- I'm stressing -- on the head of the state administration from the opposition of the former head of the club, who destroyed the two farms, the former head of the plant that destroyed the society, the former head of the social protection department, who's waiting for him to be given a seat in this power that you're talking about. Finally, I want to say the following. Today, at our faction meeting, we believe that in order to provide a positive trajectory for the government's work, to ensure the vitality of our population, to touch the government's teams is pointless. We're just going to disrupt and complicate the processes that are going on in society today, and I think it's appropriate, I'm passing on the mood of our faction, to give the Attorney General his legal right to give legal assessment to events in all the regions of our Ukraine. That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u56	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. The word is from the "Centre" group of the people's deputy Gabrieluk. Get ready, Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u57	There is a meeting of the CTC when the results of the elections are announced. Shufrich sits in Carmazin's chair, Carmazin takes a moment to relax, takes a seat, Schufrich says, "You're mine today, Jura." The President of Ukraine is speaking, saying that he is a guarantor of the Constitution, that he will preserve freedom and democracy, and that there will be widespread fraud. He speaks and says that we need to close the fifth channel, which is trying to bring sadness and change the constitutional order today. At a time when we know what people think of journalists in the fifth channel, "Era" and other honest channels, like maybe heroes. And we know that today they are carrying the swallow of truth through this deaf wall of filth and falsehood. The Prime Minister is speaking and says that this Cat Leopold, when there is the greatest criticism of the world community, when the tension in society has reached its peak! As a result, we see what reaction we have here. We know with you, friends, how the Attorney-General's Office and law enforcement agencies “broken through the knee” deputies, relatives and relatives when they tried to change the Constitution when they needed to achieve their goal. And where these, my friends, organs, when they were being falsified, we know that Vasilyev and the company "have hidden their heads in the sand," and they're nowhere today! And they're not in this room today. In addition, my friends, look at these provocative governors, not to name them, do I not agree with you Valeri Pavlovich that, or who has spoken here, Alexander Alexandrovich, what does the President have to say, and what do these governors, what teams are they carrying out, what are they leading our country to today? And dear friends, doesn't that say anything about our level of authority? Today the level of power below the plinth, and we see it with you. And after that, looking at everyone with a simple, kind, gentle look or innocent eyes and talking about democracy, about honesty, about peace and good, when in fact today there is a second-largest affair of power against its own people, the first was the change in the Constitution. Igor Fedorovich Sharov and Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich said to me, "You will have trouble, 320 votes, vote, lose your career." So I said, "Friends, one of us can't count to 300 just," and I said, "I'm not gonna look at the results." And this reform has failed, has not failed, only because it has not been built to improve the lives of our citizens, not to change the situation for the better in the country, but to be fictional. And today, my friends, I want to say that the second affair is the election of the President of Ukraine, when we see the power of Igor Fedorovich Sharov told me that he will never give it up and Janukovic will be President. So I want to tell you, Igor Fedorovich, and all the representatives, today's emptiness, today's evil and lies, and therefore, today we cannot be distraught and continue to oppress the situation in our country, in our society. And we believe that one of the outcomes is, indeed, the processes that the Supreme Council has undertaken must be brought to a logical conclusion. And I want to say to my friends, we understand very well and we know that today where the truth, where lies, where justice and good are, have forgotten our leaders, that in 10 years our people have become free, learned to protect, develop their views, learn to defend them, and, if necessary, fight for them. The Ukrainians are a great proud nation, and we are strong in both the success and the power of democracy and justice, the good over evil. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u58	Victor Andriyovich Yushchenko, the representative of the "Our Ukraine" faction, will be followed by Bogityrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u59	Honorable national MPs, distinguished representatives, respected heads of district administrations, respected friends, councils, pardons, counsels, to all who sit there. Dear friends, I wanted to say the following. Today, we must all be citizens of this country, regardless of who was born, what language he speaks, or where the temple goes to confession. I am convinced that today should be an honest conversation because my nation faces a challenge. I. Friends, I can repeat, my nation is facing a challenge today. And I want the nation to be able to respond to that challenge. And that's why I'm offering an honest conversation about everything that's happened. And it happened, guys, it's very simple. If we want to give a recipe for how to get out of this curse, we need to get a good grip on who brought us into this crisis. And the first point, as a result of this crisis, is, please don't forget, when you get out of the hall regardless of the color of your flags, it's November 27th. On November 27, the authorities waved, waved the voter’s voice. I'm not gonna tell you how I'm gonna comment that 500,000 votes in Donetsk after 20 o'clock in the evening was dropped. What is it, crime or not crime? I will not comment on how 35 percent voted at home. Along with the strong cards, 55 percent of Santa Claus did not vote in the traditional way. Is it not the work of this authority, my dear friends, not fraud? And a million and a half strong voices, but how did the Minister of Transport set up political mandrakes all over Ukraine to make this fraud happen, is it not on this minister's conscience? Friends, isn't that on our conscience when the entire electronic election media went not to the CBC from the territorial commissions, but to Medvedczuk, Surkis and Yanukovich. Isn't this a disgrace to all of us? Which country do we live in, my friends? When an electronic signal goes from Odessa’s electronic protocol to Kiev, it takes nine hours. Come on, everybody, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, That is why it cannot be called a crime against its own country, against its own people. And so the first point we started was that power wanted to make an anti-constitutional coup d'état. And that didn't work out: 27 people went out on the field. I'm sorry, it's not like I'm protecting some Yashchenk. They're protecting their voice because they didn't do it. So we all have to applaud them for what they are. And they make us better. [[Applause]] Another thesis. In the East, only a defeat took place, there was a noise of autonomy in the East. I mean, my friends, if there's a guarantee in this country, if there's laws here, it's a criminal act. For these actions, people have to resign. It is advisable to resign and be held legally accountable for the crime committed. Because, my friends, this map, I want you to remember it all, not by opposition, by authority. Read it, it's your job. You're dividing Ukraine into three classes. You're talking about sovereignty, territorial integrity. That's your sovereignty. These are toys that always end in fire. By the way, we found this document in the warehouse of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, in the exhibition center, 13 pavilion. There were 150 million such specimens. Mikolo Janovich, I'd like to address you personally right now. I've heard you tell sagas about big economic growth. Mikola Janović, you have a unique warm economy. 9 percent of economic growth occurs once every 20 years. Your government's got this economy. There are two ways to keep this pace: keep the budget under control and keep the price under control. Two ways is to hold these chances. So what I'm saying is, how did you hold up the chance to control the state budget? Today, Mikola Janović, government budget deficit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u60	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u61	Mikola Janovich, can someone give me time or can't anyone? Julia Volodymyrna, give it time. Adam Ivanovich, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u62	Wait, please. Wait, please. So she gave the National Agrarian Party three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u63	Thank you. Thank you. I thank you for bringing this to a peaceful conclusion. Mikola Janović, let's check what is the order of the state budget today. I want to say, Mikola Janović, you have put the state budget into a budget crisis that will take over the economy, the banking system and other economic spheres. But now I have to prove it. Today, the budget deficit, my friends, which led my country to default in 2000! I'm Ukrainian and I'm proud of my Ukraine. I'm talking about my country, my citizenship. Yes, dear friends! 8 billion, we have a budget deficit today. In 7 billion and a half unpaid VAT compensation, add the amount to the amount, please. 3 billion restructured VAT, 5 billion prepaid taxes. Mikola Janović, you add this 5 and you end up spending 23 billion dollars that don't belong to a government that belongs to a future generation. You're forming a budget crisis. And it's only a matter of time before it comes up. When. There's no head of the National Bank for five months at work, my friends! What Is Happening to Reserves? Three billion National Banks have lost reserves in the last 40 to 60 days. Are we saying it's a norm? As we speak, dear friends, 23 billion budget deficits are one third of Ukraine's money, and professionals keep quiet and say we're good at applauding for this situation. Guys, it's a shame. And that's why I'm saying that the government has to resign for the ideas that it's doing in the East for the things that it's doing in the budget, for the counterfeiting of the elections that he's made. And I want to end my speech with an illustration, or perhaps a true story: When Macedonian returns from another victorious campaign, Diogenes meets him and says, "Listen, what do you do? I'll do anything for you." He says, "You know what you do for me. Don't close the sun for me." Dear government, do not close the sun to this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u64	From the faction of the "Region of Ukraine" the word is given by the national deputy of Bogatirov. Get ready for Cassianov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u65	Respectable. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished ones are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! I'm talking. Raisa Vasilovna, please take the time off. I especially address those who are invited on the balcony: you are guests, and those who come in are kind. Behave yourself, you don't have to deputize the People's Council yet. Please turn the time on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, invited! I am very pleased to hear this acceptance of my exit to the rostrum because it has drawn attention to the position of my electorate and me personally, and it is for this very reason that I have come out today so that you who have not been with me during this period will hear my voice. The voice and position of the Ukrainian faction and the voter voice. And if you and I are all accustomed, without exception, to the rallying, we understand the special responsibility of speaking from the highest court of the state, from the Supreme Council's rostrum. So I want to remind everyone that tomorrow is December 1st, the next anniversary of our country's referendum. It's because of the part of Ukraine that some politicians today call defiantly Russian, or one that doesn't even deserve attention, that I want to say, these are the people who brought the votes and our country became independent. So I'm asking you to stop being disrespectful to this region, which you today call the east, which you today call the south, which is not patriotic. And if we're going to look at the chronology of events, and I don't want to focus on that, then I'm going to say that those speeches and those speeches by the voters of these regions are a reflex and an appropriate response to the abuse of the Constitution that it is today. Dear friends! You may not take the position of each other like I do yours, or you are mine, but the ratings give us our voters. What we must do with you right now is not to cross that line when the rape against the Constitution becomes a rape against the state. I ask you very much, very reasonablely, to respond to this voter response and to hear their voice. I think that everyone standing on the surfaces of our state today in Kiev and Donetsk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and everywhere under various flags, I think, is uniting the one injustice that has arisen today in many years in the state, the injustice that has spread in the regions of all, the injustice that has its beauty in every region. And it is this injustice that we must overcome along with you. That's what this is about. I want to tell my colleagues that no voter voter in the eastern and southern parts of the region calls for separatism. These voices are to put us with you at the negotiating table. It's like the first position. Second position. Re-establish the laws and Constitution of Ukraine. And the last thing I'd like to say by government. We know that there are no permanent governments, there are no permanent parliaments and no permanent presidents. All governments are retiring in due course. If we're with you today -- think of this position -- we're going to step back a little bit and realize that the political situation can't be ruined yet by destroying the last robbery as a government, as today's economic governance structure, we're going to be in a lot of trouble with you. There will be a new president in the state and there will be a new government, in accordance with the Constitution. We don't know the names, we don't know the weather forecasts today, but I don't think you can reject the position that the government will resign in accordance with the Constitution. So by calling on my colleagues, especially hotheads, I want to say again today, please study those decisions that you've made and that you're relying on as separatists, and you'll see that your emotional perception can't be that you continue to pedal the topic of separatism. And second. I think you'll hear it from me for the first time, and I want you not only to hear it, but also to hear it. We have one of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u68	Please, the word from the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party has Cassianov, two minutes of regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u69	Dear friends, the Kasian People's Agrarian Party faction. We all see today that the government really doesn't work. We all see today that governors who have to work in places rather than work, go and do separatist activities. Today there is no representative of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council, not because it does not support it, today the District Council is holding an extraordinary session and that the decisions of the initiative group of deputies will be those that are really moods in Dnipropetrovska. Dniproperty will and will never support separatist action. Today, the City Council is holding an emergency session, and most city council deputies do not support the rebels who met at this meeting. In terms of political crisis and decision. Dear friends, we made a political decision with you on Saturday. We all say today that the Supreme Council should take responsibility. We all see today that the President is not making a decision. So let's help the President, let's really take responsibility for today. And so the faction of the People's Agrarian Party has decided to support the resignation of the government. The faction of the National Agrarian Party has decided to support the mistrust of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs! Let's make a decision, let's make a law, change the President's re-election law, let's have a vote, and let's let the country actually have power. In another way, we're going to be stuck in the mess that we're in today. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u70	The word from the "One Ukraine" faction has a national deputy named Hubsky to prepare for Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that we are facing a dilemma today: either we have enough courage and intelligence to make a decision that has taken the most into account the ambitions of the parties to the opposition and to extinguish the flames of hostility, for we will put the country in real danger. And that's why today I urge you all to put aside political ambitions, dissatisfaction, or the desire to become more important in society, let's forget all kinds of insults, let's sincerely acknowledge that, with participation and every one of us, whether it's excessive, it's not always balanced activity, or the hope of silence, because speaking my house to the extreme, in Ukraine the hot winter begins, the Motherland is in danger. Before each one of us, our parents and children, our friends and acquaintances, the growing threat of breaking the country apart. To divide the territories and societies by a crack in U and I, to divide the crack in U and I not only the territory, not only the society, but also the human hearts and souls, the family and the family, I firmly believe that neither Yushchenko nor Janukovic want to do so. On the surface of the conflict, they were driven by an ever-increasing internal tension, about which authorities, including us MPs, could not respond to the urgent needs of society in a timely and civilized manner. There are not so many "for" or "against" Yushchenko or Yanukovitch to my deep conviction. They are, above all, a demonstration of dissatisfaction by their own authority. As a mathematician, I am deeply grateful to the outstanding professors of the University of Kiev for the teaching of digitization and the difficult tasks of life, so I see Ukraine not only because of the emotional meetings of orange or blue - and - white compatriots. This is first of all a socio-economic complex created by the hard work of many generations, a society that, at the same time, has concentrated material and human resources on the Donbas mines. on the mines and homes of Krivoriža, on the cascade of Dniprovsky hydroelectric power stations, the North Crimean Canal, woodworking enterprises Carpathian, Lviv bus, Lutské automobile, the Ternopilal Combin factory. And the whole state is pierced by the networks of oil and gas pipelines, electricity networks, railways and automobiles, all of this has been done kindly and forever, shared, shared by political preferences, language signs, or dialects is an unforgivable sin before our offspring. We still have economic and social wounds from the breakup of the Soviet Union. You can't create new pains, new pains are a new decline in people's lives. Our main task now is to preserve Ukraine's unity. We are obliged to return to the existing legislative field all representative and executive bodies, wherever they are in the west or the east, north or south of Ukraine. I remind you, according to the article of the Second Constitution, "the territory of Ukraine within the existing border is complete and intact." And this should be an alpha and an omega for any civil servant. The "One Ukraine" faction strongly rejects any attempt at a violent solution to the political crisis that has gripped society. We condemn self - making decisions that violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our nation. We view them as a direct threat to the constitutional system, democracy, national security. Therefore, we propose to the Attorney General's Office to protest the decision of the executive authorities and local self-government, adopted in violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The other one. Ask the Ukrainian Security Service to give a legal assessment of the actions of individual managers regarding violations of the Ukrainian Constitution. I stress that Ukraine’s unity cannot be a political standoff. In the name of the independence and unity of the Ukrainian State, policies of different viewpoints must unmistakably unite around our sacred Constitution if they want the good of our people if they want national harmony. We must find a political solution within the framework and boundaries of the existing Constitution, ensure the free will of the Ukrainian people, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of our nation. On behalf of our faction, I urge all of you to unite under the single slogan of Ukraine, an independent, rich and successful state. Let us work for Ukraine, society, and Ukraine alone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u72	From the BUT faction, there is a national deputy named Matvienko, who will be followed by Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u73	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, members of the government, respectfully invited, all who listen to us today. Indeed, we cannot help but agree that the situation in our country is extremely difficult. And I think that even with the optimism that Mikola Janovich Azarov announced from this rostrum, the so-called three-month strength reserves are nothing more than a myth that we have no right not to take from the point of view of healthy analysis. Especially in the light of the dynamics of Ukraine, especially in the last week. And if we don't make a real free decision today, we won't stop a vacchanal that can destroy Ukraine, we'll come back to that question, I guarantee you, in a few days, but in a much worse situation. And I think this is supposed to be the basis for everyone who thinks how to vote today. Moreover, in the face of rising inefficiencies, inflation, mistrust of citizens today, as well as of our Ukrainians, and beyond, all that is called in Ukraine by the executive power will eat up very quickly all that we have from what we so - called reserves. We need to stabilize. Without trust in the executive institution of power, we will not achieve stability to the Supreme Council, either, in the absence of the President as today's guarantor of the Constitution. The Supreme Council, which takes courageous steps to restore trust in authority, is evidently few. We need to understand today that the paralysis of executive power is the cause of all that we are trying to discuss with you today. And separatism, and violations of the law, and violations of the Constitution, and so-called illegal acts, especially the last in the individual local authorities. Conclusion. We can't joke about that. What would you do? Once again, the task is to restore trust in the official state authorities, the Supreme Council and the executive branch. Clearly, there will never again be confidence in the government that there is. Please tell me how you can trust the head of the government, who is the organizer of the crime and the massive violence that has taken place throughout the entire electoral campaign, and especially in the re-voting. Please tell me, which one of you has confidence in the head of the government who came to Northdoneck, has gathered his party to announce the separate moods and says, "Tell me what to do and I will carry out your orders." It is not clear that this head of government is to resign. There are three options. The first option is if there's a conscience and a conscience. Obviously, he himself should have applied for his resignation. But where conscience and conscience have long grown horns. There is nothing but a desire to save ourselves, in fact and in a closer environment, by carrying out their commission. The President could have this government retired. But. The president's paralyzed. He's doing a self-preservation mission today, he's connected to this cohort of people, he can't cross, because tomorrow he's not the President anymore. Let's help the President! Let's resign the government! This is the only right decision the Supreme Council can make today. By the way, by helping all who sit in this bed, they want to, they ask, they can't, because they're not allowed to. And finally, last. We understand that there are thieves in every area. But thieves characterize the entire population, and we are in solidarity with Donetsk, with Lugansk, with its population, there are wonderful people living there, and we support them. But thieves are supposed to deprive them of their manipulation, and thieves have to leave this healthy, wonderful population called Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u74	The Communist faction has a national deputy named Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u75	Dear radios, respectable colleagues! We Communists have repeatedly emphasized and warned that the domestic and foreign policies pursued and pursued by the clan's political regime have led Ukraine to become the target of manipulations, to become a site for the programmes of international financial organizations, to test geopolitical scenarios developed in the fields of foreign services with a view to territorial dismemberment and the elimination of Ukraine as a single State. At the start of the electoral campaign, I warned that the struggle of various clans for the Presidential Chair not only threatened the dismemberment of society, the disintegration of society, but threatened the territorial integrity of the country, and, as the people say, because where money is spoken, the truth is silent. Today we must give clear political assessments of what is happening in Ukraine. This means that we must first speak the truth in order to deal with today’s events. We should not say that the Galician Assembly was held in Ternopol in the 1990s to separate western areas of Ukraine. It was there that the intention of establishing the Galician Republic was made public. We should not forget that today. We should not forget that the actions of those whom some have tried to call separatists have been a response to today's actions and decisions of the local authorities in the western areas of non-subordination to the central authorities, but only one candidate to the Presidents, as well as statements by individual politicians that they will carry Donbass with a thorny wire. It is they who erect the wall across the country, dividing the people of Ukraine. I would like to recall once again that this division of Ukraine, which was shown for the first time, was created by the right-wing political forces after the election of the President of 1999. I am convinced that the current candidates for the presidency are not worth losing the country's integrity. We, the Communists for Ukraine's unity and integrity, know the value of our fathers and grandfathers creating and defending our State. I also declare this because the appointment of field commanders is not only a sign of a national disaster, it is also a need to answer the question today, but who claims to be Shamil Basaev? Thus, the state of destruction and criminal inaction of power, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, remains the only legitimate body. It is for her to be delegated the powers of the President as the guarantor of the Constitution today so that we can preserve the country. We propose a clear decision. First. The fullness of the State authority by means of political reform should be passed on to Parliament. Second. The decision to terminate the current President as a failure to comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine is immediate. Third. We are repeatedly called upon to choose between evil and evil, but the real evil is the Presidential power itself, this evil, the institution of the Presidency, we suggest that the Communists be eliminated immediately. Fourth. In order to calm the people, to prevent the division of the country, a so-called zero option would be a zero option, but only new elections. And the last. I do not want the Yugoslav version to repeat in Ukraine. First the country splits apart, then the cluster bombs on the heads of civilians and finally the foreign troops on our territory. I am categorically opposed to this and call on the people's deputies to make balanced and responsible decisions. Behind us, the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful! We did a procedure with you to deal with the question that a working group created by the Conciliation Board yesterday. When the meetings began, we spoke about the fact that before the decision was taken before the decision was taken, and I emphasize that we have and we will consider. We will be considering two drafts, because there are two bills and two draft resolutions on this issue, both of which we will consider, one we will take as a basis, and then we will vote separately. In order for factions to be able to determine the two draft regulations in accordance with our procedure for dealing with the issue, a 30 - minute break is announced. Let's make sure we start the meetings at 1:00 sharp. At 1:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down, for we will approach the final part of our consideration of the matter. Invite the national deputies to the session room. We're registering according to established order. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. So before we now invite the First Deputy Prime Minister to the final word, he's now communicating with the shareholders and he's coming along, so if there's any reason please write down for five minutes. I'd like to see the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Tomenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u78	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to say that today Parliament must do so. What Leonid Kuchma didn't do and didn't do was central authority in general. Unless, as a whole in Parliament, a dot is placed in this strategy of the separation of state and the destruction of state, the situation as you understand may go too far. I don't understand the logic of the negotiations and arrangements with the heads of the district administrations that say they don't understand what the only Ukraine is. I don't understand the logic of peaceful treatment of those officials who are destroying this country and bullying these people, so once again, I would like to draw the attention of the national MPs, these hundreds of thousands of people who are waiting for you today to make a decision, calling for a dot over
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u79	Yes. Alexander Colonyari, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u80	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, please pass on the word of Pecklusenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u81	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u82	Pecklusenko, 84th District, Pologovské constituency, Zaporozhye district. My dear colleagues, two of these three words are absolutely true, we are colleagues, and we are very expensive to our constituents. I would like to remind you that, despite the political instability of the situation, the economy is the biggest problem. And if we don't understand that, believe me, no political orders will stop the market, bazaar. Let's think about people. Instead of expressing mistrust to the Government today, we must support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u83	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u84	Thank you, Vadim Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Cybenko, Lugansk. Dear colleagues, we are all with you today, speaking on behalf of the entire nation. But the people of Ukraine are quite different. I'd like to say. It's strange that the concept of the people is being defined today. If you live in the Western regions, you're the people. If you spend a week snarling at the Mainland of Independence, and you're on the full hold of the stockholders, you're the people. And if you live in Lugansk, in Donetsk, in Kharkishte, you vote, and then you extract coal, you melt metal, you teach or treat children, you fill the budgets of all the regions and, including Western ones, which are now all subsidized, you are not the people. I am very much asking us to move away from similar standards, because all of the people who live in Ukraine are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u85	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u86	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u87	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u88	I'd like to address the previous speaker. Dear Peter Stepanovich, you are also a people, and no one asks that question. We need to consider the matter in substance. But look, this is the way that today’s authorities turn to this people. I am reading the Order of the Attorney-General: to entrust the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to take urgent steps, in accordance with the requirements of the law, to renew the activities of the designated administrations of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's like the Ministry of Internal Affairs is being subordinated to the Attorney General's Office. Such examples can be cited in countless ways. I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's go to the decision itself in fact. If we see that we do not reach agreement, we need to carry out the Conciliation Council and make sure that the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u89	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u90	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. I am no doubt in favour of the government resigning and, above all, to resign the Prime Minister, who led the entire electoral campaign in a thieving, fraudulent way. That's why he has to resign. But that's not enough. We have to resign the Attorney General. The Attorney General observed mass fraud, a mass violation of our legislation, taking place throughout Ukraine. So he's responsible for everything that's been going on with us, for all those violations of the law. Vladimir Mikhailovich, now the whole of Ukraine is looking at you, you are a responsible person. And I would very much like you to go up to the height that history raises and trusts you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u91	I thank you, Your Honor, for your thoughts when discussing the reasons for the vote. Now we're going to look at draft regulations essentially. Dear National Colleagues, draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 6375, introduced by the National Deputies, members of the working group. We took three representatives from various parts of the Parliament, headed by a neutral national deputy, the first deputy of the Supreme Council, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. An appropriate draft of the document was prepared. There was also an alternative project of 6375-1 — a group of national deputies. In accordance with the Rules, we have to put to the vote the registration of arrivals as a basis that we will take to work with. No warning? Yes. Dear colleagues, since he had arrived, the First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Mikoli Janovića Azarova, had approached him, asking for a closing word briefly, giving him the opportunity. Out of the way. Microphone, please turn it on. This is in line with the Rules. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Above all, all the critical, critical comments made to the Government are natural and we accept these criticisms. However, I would like to say literally a few words about the budgetary situation in the country, and I would like to draw attention to that, because not only ordinary people listen to us, we are being listened to by financiers, bankers, industrialists, international investors. Hence, it is vital that they obtain accurate information. Thus, we are prepared to provide all our critics with full information on the state of our calculations on all absolutely positions. We're open. And what I'm saying is that now we have more than 10 billion leftovers in a single treasury account is absolutely true. What I'm saying right now is that we have reserves above $10.5 billion is absolutely true. Any business entity is in the process of mutual calculation. We have assets, we have liabilities. That's why when they say someone has to do something. Yes, they do! But we have to, too. It's totally normal. The budget system of Ukraine is therefore absolutely sustainable. This is our joint outcome with you, the result that we have adopted a realistic balanced budget for 2004 and that it is 101.3 per cent in 10 months. This gives us the assurance that all total social payments will be made on time and in full. Therefore, in making a decision that respects the people's deputies, I ask you to be guided, indeed, not by emotion and to be primarily responsible to the country and to our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u93	Yes, dear fellows! So please take two draft decrees: 6375, 6375-1. They're all given to you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to look there, in your stacks of papers, these papers were handed out yesterday morning at 21:00 p.m., distributed to members of the task force and distributed to the factions. So, please. The first is a vote to be taken as a basis. The Secretariat, please provide information, documents distributed or not? The Secretariat says they're given away. Dear colleagues, if there is no draft document, please. Yes, please. The first is to vote for adoption on the basis of a project introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies, members of the working group that we approved on the Conciliation Council yesterday. So I'm voting on the basis of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6375, on the prevention of anti-constitutional actions, and on the separatist notion that threatens Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Please vote. [[13:24:40]] For 196 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 100, "Regions of Ukraine" and communists - 0, SDPU - 2, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, National agrarian - 17, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, Union and "One Ukraine" - 0, Center - 13, NDP and SPT - 8, Deminiciative - 1, Postfaction - 17. The vote is based on the draft Supreme Council Decision No. 6375-1, introduced by the group of National Deputies of Baheev, Dobkin, Colonyari, Komar, Korsakov, Proscuratova, Sigal, Hara, Tsarenko. On stabilizing the socio-economic and political situation in the country and preventing anti-constitutional, separatist actions that threaten Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. [[13:25:48]] For 232 It's been decided. Project accepted. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Regions" - 59, Communists - 59, SDPU - 34, Labour Ukraine - 27, National agrarian - 4, SPI and Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 12, "One Ukraine" -12, Center - 1, NDP - 7, Deminiciative - 13, Postfraction - 4. Now we go to the points of this decree. I'm reading the preamble. With a purpose. No, no, we agreed to vote on the items. Oh, from the title, fine. Write it down for three minutes. What? [[N o M e s s a ……]] Dear National Deputies! The secretariat says they've distributed the entire distribution. Well, they gave out the whole circulation. I'm going to read the headline now, come on. Oh, three minutes, please, with a motive for this decision. Please, Poljszczuk Mikola Efremovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u95	Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Obviously, we're fine in society, so we're at peace. I'm sorry, but you've voted so calmly on a draft decision that the annulled decision is trying to call off the decision of the Supreme Council on Saturday, which has paved the way for a crisis resolution. I appeal to all the national MPs about their personal responsibility for a situation that will exacerbate the crisis in society! [[N o M e s s a ……]] I want to state that if such actions develop, we will demand that such a Supreme Council is not entitled to continue its work and should be dissolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u97	For the reasons, please, Bronnikov, "Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I fully agree with Victor Pinzinic that every MP must make meaningful, balanced decisions. And in this regard, I am absolutely against the fact that we have been given orders here to appoint enemies of the people and non-departees to make attempts to force threats against members of the people. I ask the distinguished faction of Ukraine to be tolerant of its colleagues to all who have created and built Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u99	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u101	Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u102	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you in connection with the name of our document. And the Communist faction proposes the following. Considering that the cause of the lack of action of the President and the lack of action of the central authority, which allowed the local authorities to violate the Constitution and the laws, as well as the need to unite the people of Ukraine today, and not to disengage them by accusing them of any action, I propose the title of our document - "On the stabilisation of the socio-economic and political situation in Ukraine and the prevention of anti-constitutional acts that threaten the sovereignty of the State." And a dot. Then it will be clear that we are just making sure that we do not have constitutional violations and that we simply demand that the authorities abide by the Constitution and the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u103	Dopkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u104	Mikhail Dobkin, faction of the Social Democratic Party. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you now to address the leadership of the faction “Our Ukraine” so that they call on their radically-minded people's deputies not to endanger the lives and security of other people's deputies. Because those appeals that are being addressed to us today are not going to do us any good.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u105	Yes. Alexander Moroz, please, the Socialist faction, instead of Baranowski. There's a Baranowski, isn't there?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we can take a different view of this project, which was voted on by the majority and representatives of another faction, which was not referred to by most, but I would like to ask: the first and second points are the functions of direct structurally which are addressed here by the Supreme Council, is it really its duty to quote the rules of the Constitution, or the laws and believe that it is its role? And then, what's the ratio of the 4th point to that name? The fourth paragraph of this regulation, what does it have to do with the title of this regulation? After all, there we discussed the question of Saturday’s counterfeiting of elections, and we took action in connection with such counterfeiting, why are we now doing so? Why are we now writing paragraph 4 here, which has nothing to do with this determination?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u107	Yes. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say just before we go to the points that this item, which was supported by 198 national deputies yesterday, was handled by 3 representatives from, let's say, the parliamentary-government coalition and three representatives from the opposition. Worked, it's a compromise, with various suggestions. I think that in the process of working, through separation, by sifting off certain non-adoptive items, we would accept a valid document. Now, dear fellows, this is your right, you've gone through the slightest resistance, tomorrow you'll make a more radical decision, it's just to the knowledge of those who think we're going to take a passing document, that we're going to overturn the decision we made yesterday, and that will calm society and bring stability. So now let's move on to the question, ladies and gentlemen, I have 1 minute to take advantage of, you've only taken advantage of your right, please, so I'm going to put to the vote, please pay attention, the name of the ruling, please calm down, this is the 6375-1 stand order. For adoption. based on this point. The name of the decision, we did not vote on the stability of the socio-economic and political situation in Ukraine and the prevention of anti-constitutional separatist actions that threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state. On the basis of that, I'm telling you again, in the process of consideration, I have no right to ask questions. Calm down, I'm talking again, calm down. I'll put it on the vote, let it go, on the basis, and then we'll figure it out. Wait, calm down. I'll be right there. Anatoly, not insolent, please. I'm not taking any chances. [[13:35:06]] For 228 Please. Yeah, well, calm down. I say again, calm down, I'll make it right, don't ask me, sit down. I'll do it again. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. I'll put you to a vote. Sit down. I'm going to put the vote to a recess. Sit down and vote. Once again, I would like to say, honourable national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, if I'm being accused like this, I don't think we'll ever find a compromise. I'm making an observation to the Cloud, we'll consult and take a break, but I don't need to push it on me again, I mean, that's it. If you think you're gonna force me to do something, you don't have to. I want to say it again. If you don't like that, sit down. I'll put you on the vote. Everybody sit down. According to the Rules, honourable national deputies, I am reminding you of the rules of Viacheslav Kirilenko, who may not have observed that two factions require the chairman to give a recess, but when the previous issue has been completed. It's under the Rules. And we haven't finished our consideration of the question. Shut your mouth. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down. In view of this crisis, I will put to the vote my resignation from the Rules and now declare two factions a 30 - minute recess to meet the factions. Please vote. Then go and sit down, sit down, and steer. Do you want to blow up the session room now? Please vote. [[13:38:39]] For 202 For reasons, please write down, five minutes. Viacheslav Kirilenko. And I want them to add a memo now. When it was handed out, how many orders were given. I think you're going to be hurt by some of the employees of the Apparatus who have performed their duties conscientiously, and you blame them. Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u108	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Viktor Yushchenka’s faction Dear colleagues, first. From the point of view of the award, it is given to many. For example, I don't have one. There's only one option that didn't get the right number of votes. But not even that, but the point is that there are hundreds of thousands of Chinese and guest capitals out on the streets right now who would like to consider resigning this criminal government that has allowed for mass forgeries in the elections. And that's the problem, not in any of the Regulatory or any other issues. So I would like the Head of the Supreme Council and the members of the Communist faction and the faction of the government to understand that we need to seek understanding, not ways to destabilize the situation. If you're not going to give us the opportunity to consider this issue right now, we're going to urge people all to go back to Main Independence, to gather there and express their word. Bo, now!Oh, my God!!the position in Parliament is absolutely not in line with the moods that have arisen in society. Society wants to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u109	Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u110	Please give the floor to my colleague from Zaporozhye Alexander Pecklusenko. I'd like you to pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich! You're our last hope. You three days! You three days! I say, ours is a country and a parliament. You have managed to maintain stability, only your balance. So please don't go to any provocations as if they weren't provoking you. Keep your balance! And I want to talk to those who call on the institution of the presidency today you've ruined, Kabmin, you're trying to ruin it! You still want to dissolve the Supreme Council. You won't get away with it! Ukraine will be a great nation against your wishes!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u112	Yes. Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction. Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u113	Vladimir Matveev, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I would ask the people's deputies of Ukraine to calm down a little bit and recall history. First, the position of the Ukrainian Compatriot in the Supreme Council was consistent: we did not support this Government, we did not support the establishment of a coalition government, we did not support the Government's programme, and we do not now support that Government. But we insist that everything in the Supreme Council be decided in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council, and that there be no derogations. When the coup took place in the Supreme Council with the help of the Ukrainian House, when the coups took place in August 1991, when pressure threatened to dissolve the Supreme Council, anti-constitutional decisions were taken here. I therefore believe that the position taken by the Communist faction is perfectly correct and principled by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u114	Dopkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u115	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to my colleague Vladimir Zaitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u116	Well, calm down, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished citizens! In accordance with the Constitution, all decisions in the Supreme Council are taken by vote. And if enough votes were voted in favour of that decision, we would consider it at each point. But Parliament has the political will expressed by voting. I want to ask my colleagues, who are now members of the minority: is this democracy, when a minority, by force of blocking or street, is going to force the Supreme Council to vote just as it wants? That's right, when colleagues from the neighboring faction of "Our Ukraine" threaten us that if you don't vote the way we need you won't get out of this room, and if you do that, they'll tear you apart. Is this democracy, I ask, your esteemed colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u118	Dear National Deputies! We had an exchange of thoughts, and I'm voting again on the proposal to announce the break by 15:00. Please vote in order to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Please vote. I ask that we vote not to do anything under pressure, let's take a parliamentary decision. [[13:45:12]] For 254 Decision taken. It's a 15-hour break. Leaders of MP groups and factions, we need to complete our consideration of the matter. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 2 p.m. And the National Deputies will be in the session room at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-30-m0.u119	The consensus board unanimously made a decision -- I would like to stress, unanimously -- that in order to hold the necessary political consultations to make a decision, which today would not only be done by so many parliaments, but by the Ukrainian society and it was taken in the interests of Ukraine, it brought peace and stability to Ukraine, it is now a meeting to close, to hold consultations and to make an agreed decision -- I want to emphasize the agreed decision -- and tomorrow at 10 a.m. to come to the consideration of this decision. In doing so, I would like to emphasize and appeal to the national MPs present to recognize my responsibility for the trials today and tomorrow. For this there is now the rest of the time of day and night. And make decisions that are not needed by certain political forces, not by certain groups, not by certain people, not by certain politicians, but by Ukraine. This is the only way we can ensure peace and stability in Ukraine. Therefore, today’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock and start our work by making an agreed decision. And today the Conciliation Council will work until we find an acceptable solution. Thank you all.
