ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Prepare to register. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:10]] Registered -392 They registered 392 national deputies in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you during the Conciliation Council, for which we took a break, that at 16 o'clock we would listen to information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as from the Ukrainian Security Service about the events that happened in Mukachevo last night, especially in the Mesquiconcom. To that end, we invited both the Minister of Internal Affairs and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. I'd like to inform you, Your Honor, that I've had a telephone conversation with the Minister of Internal Affairs. He's 12.04. In 2004, he was hospitalized. Calm down. Dear colleagues, I want to emphasize once again, from 12.04. There is an order from the minister at number 182 that during the period of the minister’s illness the prime minister of the interior of Ukraine is First Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Chief of Chief Staff, Gusarov Sergey Mikolayovich. He will provide us with appropriate information. This is an objective reason. I also had a conversation with the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. But he has a meeting after 16 hours with a foreign delegation, signing documents. He'll be ready tomorrow. Please calm down, Your Honor, he'll be ready tomorrow. Because tomorrow we're going to be looking at the full, so to speak, this question, tomorrow he'll be ready to answer the questions. He informed me that, taking into account the information received from the National MPs, the Security Service sent an operational group to the city to study the matter. You know, it's not a security issue, but they're now involved, so I say, but they've joined the study on the incident that happened yesterday. Listen to the information. We agreed this way, I informed you that information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service is 10 minutes for information, 10 minutes for answers to questions. Tomorrow we will continue to consider the matter and determine the solution. Please, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It's about extraordinary events when polling stations thunder, when unknown formations rule the militia and the electoral process, when security disappears at night, the security of ballots is destroyed, ballots are destroyed, ballots are stolen. These are extraordinary events, honourable colleagues, when they don't count on any laws at all. So we ask that the information and the opportunity to ask questions be longer. Give 20 minutes of information, and above all, give the opportunity to ask questions to which Ukrainian citizens and all deputies should hear the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I invite you to report on the duty of minister. We agreed. If I have to, I'll put it to a vote, we'll take more time. But, dear colleagues, when we were holding a conciliatory council, one minute, when we were holding a conciliatory council, we agreed, and we all agreed with that, heads of MPs and factions, that we are now going to listen to the issue of the incident that occurred especially at night in the miscivico, and tomorrow we will consider this issue with the participation of all the invited persons, such as the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine. authorized by human rights and representation from the Supreme Council in the person of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Zinchenko. So we're going to have to deal with this for two days. And then let's do our deals, not pedal completely different problems. And let's do it. Please invite me to speak to the acting minister. What? Rudzkowski, please. And then school. Please, come here for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u4	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the report of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is not enough to address this issue in its entirety. We do need the Security Service to provide relevant information, because the issue of elections and the power system in Ukraine is not a question of random criminals, it's a matter of national security. And the Security Service should, and it was investigating all the questions. There's information there. Therefore, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it would be appropriate for not only the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide information on this matter but also the Ukrainian Security Service. If not today, tomorrow the head of the Security Service specifically informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, you are. I was obviously talking very quickly, and you obviously didn't get me. We've agreed that you're going to be acting as a minister right now, and you're going to ask questions. The acting minister will answer and then inform the deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, you will have the opportunity to ask questions. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, on the committee where I work in the Supreme Council, we have, if the first person doesn't come, we take the matter off the table because it's disrespectful to the Supreme Council Committee. Similarly, there is disrespect for the Supreme Council for the absence of officials who are directly responsible for the ministry for which they are responsible. Because we know what the first deputies will say, they'll say I'm incompetent, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. And tomorrow, Vladimir Mikhailovich, agree that tomorrow they will have more important things to do than the Supreme Council, that they will be able to find reasons not to come. There will be a delegation, a second delegation there, an incendiary ingenuity can happen to someone, and a hospital can also issue it. It's just me. The Supreme Council must force itself to respect itself, it is the highest legislative body, the highest representative body. That is why I would like us to have the respect of all officials together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, I think we should respect ourselves first and also respect the public authorities. If we've reported it in two hours. One minute! If we've informed in two hours what we're going to be looking at. I want to say again: Your Honor, if you break up and don't let me explain, I'll close the session -- that's all. I want to explain again to everyone what he's yelling at. If we're in two hours, dear colleagues, we're giving an emergency assignment, and people are probably working and having some work plans. Once again, I want to make it clear to you that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has been ill since April 12. Once again, I want to tell you, he's sick! So he reports on the minister’s responsibilities. The head of the Ukrainian Security Service today accepts a foreign delegation, signs some documents. He said he can't do it today and he'll do it tomorrow. If you're not comfortable with it, let's stop looking at it at all. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. On your orders, I will inform you of the events that took place in Mukachevo on the night of April 19th and 20th. I will begin with the fact that the Mukativ Mishquikonka premises were headed by a commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, headed by Mr. Xinchenk, deputy head of the Supreme Council. The Mukatov City Department of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zakarpatsk region, with the aim of preventing possible incidents, was carrying out day-to-day public order protection in the area adjacent to the house of the Mesquikon and the house itself. The last meeting of the committee was held on April 19 from 21.30 p.m. to 23. 30 minutes. After the members of the commission left, two of the four entrance doors of the house remained open to the Mesquikonkam. The house was guarded by the guard of the Mesikonski Susked. In addition, he had a responsible Mesikonski Lewandowski in the house. Public order was carried out by a senior district inspector of the torture department of the Cotubai militia and a police officer of the Jamig police department. Police officers were responsible for ensuring public order near the front of the city council, the central entrance and the exit gates, providing assistance to city council guards, and providing security for the security regime. At about two o’clock in the morning, the guards and police heard the sound of an autonomous alarm signal. When they decided that the signal on the back door was working, they headed there. They didn't find anything, they went up to the second floor of the house. In their second reception, they discovered the responsible Levandovsky, who lay with his feet tied. After inspecting the floor, guards and police officers found that there were scattered papers and other items in cabinet number 52. They immediately reported this to the police department. The investigation team of the Mukachev City Department and the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs immediately moved to the scene. An overview of the scene shows that on the second floor of the 4-story building of the Mesquikonkam opposite the reception of the National Deputy of Ukraine Baloga there is a cabinet number 52, where ballots were kept for the election of the city head. The door of the marked cabinet is damaged, and the door is open. There are scattered ballots on the floor. The damaged doors have two remaining paper tapes, one of them has the signatures of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Moses, Shevchenka, Ivancho, Matvienka, and the entry "19.04.2004 23 hours". On the second tape, the stamp of the territorial election commission of Mukachev. Papers were scattered on the floor of the cabinet, including electoral ballots, including about 30-40 broken standard paper packets with ballot papers, 6 cardboard boxes and a stamping table for the polling stations. From the scene, the fingerprints, footprints, and other traces of crime were removed. The room was under autonomous alarm, equipped with a sound signal. It must be determined that the electoral days before the election by the city’s public service unit, the number 52 room where the ballots were kept was examined for technical reinforcement and security equipment with a centralized monitoring remote control. According to an act of inspection of the selected object and a letter of suggestions for the resolution of the deficiencies detected and the setting up of the alarm, the head of the territorial election committee, Peresta, was introduced. However, the latter reported that there was no need for alarm, motivated by a lack of funds and a security guard. On the second floor of the Mesquikkon building, about 80 meters away, along the corridor of the corner of cabinet number 52, is the second receptional viceroy of the city's head, where there was a responsible lineup for the Mesquikon L., 30th birthday. He explained that at about 2 p.m. at 20.04 p.m., while he was resting in the reception office, an unknown came upon him, who threatened to silence him, tied his legs with cords, and damaged his telephone cable. There were two or three unknowns with the attacker. But the adjectives and the number of victims cannot be determined because it was dark. On April 20th, the Office of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Zakarpat region investigated the criminal case previously on the grounds of the crime envisaged in part three of article 296 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine for the hooliganism associated with the official or public representative responsible for the protection of public order. The possibility of a criminal case for the kidnapping of particularly important documents, article 357 of the Penal Code, is being considered. [[bulletins]] The final qualification of the actions will be performed after their purpose has been established. An evaluation of police operations, the commission studies, will be given by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It should be noted that according to part of article 45 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Urban, Urban Heads, transport and transfer of protocols and other electoral documents to the territorial electoral commission are being carried out with the staff of internal affairs bodies. The organization for the further protection of ballots does not rely on the law on the militia. At present, active investigation and search and investigation are being carried out to identify those involved in the crime. Internal affairs agencies will make every effort to expose this crime and to establish suspects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! Gusarov’s interior minister, Sergey Mikolayovich, completed his presentation. Please sign up for the question. Please, since time is saved, 15 minutes per question, 14 more precisely. Please, Colony, the faction of Ukraine. Explain the names of the national deputies, please. And you have on your monitors, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u10	Well, don't be lazy to turn it on. Please, Colony, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u11	Dear Mr. Hussarov, what is the Ministry of Internal Affairs doing to find out who attacked the territorial commission has broken everything? What is done by the Ministry of Internal Affairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u12	Well, first of all, with regard to the case that took place this night, I already said in my information that the criminal case had been violated. The criminal case is in the introduction of CCW investigators. This situation is controlled by the head of the investigator, Mr. Zechariah. In addition, a decision is being made, already on the way, there will be a curator from the Ministry, Deputy Minister Mr. Zubchuk, Colonel General. It's beyond that. Well, and we're doing a search and rescue of the people who committed this crime. It's so brief I've informed you what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u13	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u14	Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u15	Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u16	Mr. Acting Minister, I have a few questions for you. First. Was there any information at the Ministry of Internal Affairs about the concentration in Mukachevo of the criminal elements on the weekend that had just passed? The first thing that was done for this? If such information was not available, would you not consider it necessary to dissolve the Ministry of Internal Affairs? Question two. Or arrested attackers against national MPs, especially those who beat young Stacks, because I got there myself, it's no big deal. Now, I'm curious about Poljczuk, a deputy, an academic, a medical doctor who was brutally beaten in the face in the presence of a member of the Ministry. Those who were beaten and those who watched or did not? If not, do you not feel that it is necessary to build your own carols? And the third question is, did I understand correctly that the only defender of democracy in Muakachevo was this night?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u17	Last sentence. Don't shout, don't shout, or do you think it's true that the only defender of democracy on this night was another 70-year-old, yes. Please have three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u18	Yes, let me. Let me answer that. So the first question was whether or not there was information. So, indeed, you all know that the tense situation was in Mukachevo, linked to the election campaign. So, sir, it has been reported that there is no need for outside forces from central authorities or other UICs. He says I have enough garrison to protect public order. So 270 militia personnel were involved to secure public order in 36 polling stations. In addition, there was a reserve of 130. There was no need to use the reserve. That's my first question. So that's the situation with respect to information. As such, such information must have been directed by central authorities, or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In our view, that was not necessary. So we don't get blamed for any pressure from the central authorities. That's the first one. The second question. What about Levandowski? Levandowski. These matters were identified, resolved, and placed on the local authorities. And this Levandowski was like a line from the city council, and there was a guard. I say again that when the electoral process was over, and when the commission stopped its work, the guards, in fact, the police were already focused on the second issue, the protection of public order when the Supreme Council commission was working and running. What's that about?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u19	Please, the question of the beating of national deputies. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u20	The second question. That about whom they've been detained or not detained. Three criminal cases have been violated on this issue, as listed here. I'm calling you now. We had seven applications here. What about election day? From April 18 to 19, seven statements and reports were received in connection with the election of the city’s head in the constituency. First. A collective statement by Ukrainian national deputies Oliynik, Orobec, and Ratushnyak was made by the Mucakev department that on the same day in the polling stations 3, 4, 6 and 18 unknown persons verbally intimidate the electorate and impede the holding of elections. The information is being verified, and the decision is not taken. [[Noise of Halls]] The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u21	Please give me the opportunity to answer, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u22	I'm answering.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u23	May I have your attention, Your Honor? May I have your attention, please? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u24	The other one. 18.04. At 2.30 p.m., the martyrly interdepartment made a collective statement to the National Deputies of Ratushnyak, Orobec, Greens, Immortal, Kachure, and Ivancho that a group of unknown persons impeded the holding of elections in districts number three, five, eight, twenty-five. They pushed observers onto the street, and at station eight, they inflicted bodily injuries on two journalists. I'll report to Polichku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, please! Dear colleagues, I, on the one hand, ask you to calm down, and on the other hand I ask Sergio Mikolaiovich specifically to answer the questions asked. The first question you answered was how much information you had. The second question is, Are there people who are involved in the beating of six national deputies? Is the question right? Please. Yeah? Oh, no? Will they be installed?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u26	I'm answering. What Polishchuk was asked about. There's a criminal case going on. You know, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, a group of the Supreme Council has left. There are also prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u27	Well, calm down, dear fellows! Please calm down. Please calm down. Sergey Mikolaiovich, is the investigation into the issue of the beating of national deputies being carried out?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u28	It's coming true. Three criminal cases have been broken. We went there from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the head of the Mayowsky Department of Administration left, and the head of the Mieta Department left in a special capacity. Mr. Zubchuk is the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u29	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u30	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u31	To calm you down, I wanted to inform you that we have registered and on what matters have been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u32	Sergei Mikolaiovich, Sergei Mikolaiovich, ask you a question. Listen to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u33	Question: "Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich," according to the information we received here, the Ukrainian national deputies. When he arrived at Mukachevo, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and saw that the premises were not protected, and he gave a proper commission or request, I don't know how to say to you, subordinated to the militia forces, they didn't carry out that assignment, they were walking with an independent species around these premises. Please tell us why this happened, and are you aware of these facts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u34	So, as far as Zinchenko's request is concerned, that fact is unknown to me, but I am. I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, you'll have the opportunity, we'll have the opportunity. Well, please, calm down. There will be an opportunity to share information that will be provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and our working group. Then we will make the right decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Billwall, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u36	Dear Sergey Mikolayovich, I have two questions for you: at what level does the Ministry of Internal Affairs participate in the investigation of this incident, and how long does it take to do so? And the second question is, how do you appreciate the actions of the City Department of Internal Affairs, and how does the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine assess? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u37	Well, first of all, I said once again that the situation is really, really complicated, which happened in Mukachev and on a level. Mr. Zubchuk has left, I repeat. As far as police action is concerned, they are ambiguous. And that's how our employees work, we're going to figure out whether there's a responsibility, whether there's irresponsible actions, or whether there's been any management of this division or the city district or the district administration, there's going to be appropriate conclusions. This will show the conclusion. We will surely inform you. I'd like the deputies to understand what I'm saying, what I'm doing. And I wanted to make a list of the applications. Three cases are closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u38	Sergei Sobolev, please, your question. Sergei Sobolev, "Our Ukraine." One minute, let me ask you a question, Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u39	I'm talking. Sobolev, "Our Ukraine", block. Rabbit, let me tell you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u40	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u41	Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." I am addressing the body that organized all these crimes in Mukachevo and you, as a representative of this body, to the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I say it, I'll confirm it in any court. First question. On what grounds did the militia escort 40-50 fighters who captured the polling stations, guarded those 40-50 fighters, filmed them? That's the first question. The second question. Among these criminal authorities are the names that were directly called the leadership of the Ministry of Justice, the representatives of the Ministry and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the city with regard to the name, the address where they live, the criminal authorities who threatened the people's deputies, the militia who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u42	Don't scream! Please, dear fellows, calm down! Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u43	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, always the same. Ten seconds to finish the question, please. And I'm asking you to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u45	And the third question. Who personally gave the order to withdraw protection when this protection was made at Zinchenko’s request? Name a last name: Who gave the order to remove this protection?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u46	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you invited me this evening, didn't you? I said, "I've given you the information I own." With regard to all these events that took place on election day 18, each case will be evaluated. That's where the task force works, the Attorney General's office, our employees. And let's put it this way: if questions arise, I, if that's possible, if that's your agreement, I'll answer these questions in more detail tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u47	Nestor Schufrich, please. Well, tomorrow! Not ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u48	Dearly acting minister of the interior, I have the following question. In your speech, you said that yesterday at 21 hours yesterday, 30 minutes, a working meeting was started under the direction of Zinchenko. As a participant in this meeting, I'm taking you to the meeting, and I'm asking you to prepare for it by tomorrow, checking with this information that at 21 hours, the meeting didn't start for 30 minutes. About 20 minutes in the 5th channel live on what I'm doing right now in Mukachevo, I said, "I'm standing in front of the City Council waiting for Zinchenko to come to the meeting." At about 10: 05 p.m., I wanted to enter the city council, and I was not released by the police, saying that they were following instructions from Zinchenko that they were protecting the land. Tell me, who came in after 22 hours in the land and who came out of it and what.?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u49	It's hard to answer that question: Who came in? Maybe someone's left, we need to figure this out, we need to figure this out. There was a commission, people came in, they went in, they polled, and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u51	The question of filming the police was not given, as there were two police officers, and so remained, a clerk and a post office officer. They were there when the alarm went off. They didn't take off the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. We would like to ask Minister Gusarov Sergio Mikolaiovich to obtain all necessary information so that we can discuss the matter in detail tomorrow. Time's up. Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Mikolayovich. What? Time is up. Please sit down, Sergey Mikolayovich. Drizzle Igor Vasilovich, deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, please. 10 minutes for the information, 10 minutes for the answer, for the question. I'm asking Gusarov Sergio Mikolaiovich, please take your seats. If necessary, go out there and discuss the problems with John the Great. Please, Igor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u53	Dear National Deputies! First of all, before we start to report information, I would like to say that the authority of the Ukrainian Security Service is clearly defined by the current legislation and that any action that goes beyond this competence should be regarded as unlawful. According to the Ukrainian Security Service, counter-intelligence, intelligence and counter-terrorism legislation, security authorities were investigating the situation of preparing and holding the elections of the city's head, Mukachevo. Appropriate measures have been taken to detect and warn at the right time possible illegal acts and to prepare crimes against the security authorities of Ukraine. In particular, regional authorities were given appropriate guidance to ensure reliable control of the development of the operational environment in Ukraine and the region, to detect and warn possible terrorist and extremist events during elections in Mukachev. In turn, the Ukrainian Regional Authority in the Zakartat region developed, agreed with the relevant institutions, with other law enforcement agencies, joint plans to implement the measures were provided for 24 hours of rotation of investigation and operational groups in the SBU department in Mukachevo, the district centre, and the central administration. In cases where the Security Service was provided with data that could have an operational interest for other law enforcement authorities, information was provided in an orderly manner. For example, information was received about the intention to go to the city of Mukachev of so-called support groups from other regions of Ukraine and because this could have made the situation in the city more difficult during the elections, we were informed in advance about this by the authorities of the Ukrainian Interior in the Zakartat region. As far as we know, appropriate measures have been taken, and there have been no negative consequences in this regard. The relevant search and search measures were also used to take account of the presence in the region of foreign observers, including representatives of the diplomatic corps, as well as Ukrainian national deputies, in particular the leader of "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenk, on whom protection measures are being taken by the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. On the night of April 19, this was already the case with specific reports coming to the Ukrainian Security Service, and a fellow worker was contacted by a national deputy named Pavlovenko, who was in Mukachevo for the time being. He reported that he was being violated, that there was a breach of public order, and it threatened the security of the national MPs who were next to him. Measures were immediately taken, and internal affairs authorities were informed. And data that would indicate that there was a real threat to the security of national MPs and other crimes related to the Ukrainian Security Service had not been established. The MP was informed of this. With regard to other information on the subject, the Security Service received no reports, appeals, both from national deputies and others, regarding actions, detection, prevention or investigation that are within the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian Security Service. At present, we find out what happened on the city council on the night of April 20 of this year. All the information we have today is from the sources of internal affairs. We provide operational assistance, as you have been informed, criminalized, and in an order determined by valid legislation, appropriate assistance will be provided to investigate the matter in the event of the investigators being brought to the security department. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u54	I see. Let us turn to questions, fellow believers. 15 minutes per question. Please sign up, Your Honor. On the board, please explain the names of the national MPs who are registered. Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u55	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, pass on the word to Lucenka. Please pass the word to Lucenka. Please pass the word to Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u56	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u57	Your Honor, I have the same question for you. Did the U.S.S.A. know that in Mukachev, on the night of Saturday and Sunday, criminal elements are concentrated in large numbers, accompanied by members of the U.S.S.A. and committed crimes, planned to attack national MPs. I wonder if these elements that I can name, some of which are in search of, are interested in the Ukrainian Security Service, or are they not? And the second question. Does the Ukrainian Security Service consider the kidnapping of all documents after the elections in Mukachev to be a state crime that requires the immediate intervention of the BSS brigade?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u58	As for information on concentration in the crime scene, I answered that question, and once again, I want to say that the proactive identification of such information does not include the competence of security authorities. We didn't get information about the concentration of criminal elements. That information we received regarding the arrival of so - called support groups was transmitted to the Ministry of Internal Affairs according to our current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u59	Ivan Mihovich instead of Phydenka, please, instead of Phydenka, a faction of Communists. Yes, Taras Cranwell will then ask the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u60	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Dear Igor Volodymyrovich, as you know, at the end of last year there was a normal business environment in Mukachev. It was destabilized by the introduction of the so - called presidential rule, which was initiated by the district government, which is headed by the SDPU Party. Then came such violent events that really destabilized this environment, began with massive violations by the executive power of civil rights and human freedoms, even more by the use of the power structures, the law enforcement authorities, and the situation really came out at a level that is now. Has your office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the President, informed you objectively about what is being done, and what is the danger of such events in Zakarpat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u61	In answer to this question, I have to refer to the position of article 6 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act, which states that the use of the Security Service in party group interests is unacceptable. In fact, information about the political processes that are taking place in one or more of the Security Service’s competences is not included. [[They're state processes, but they're political.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u62	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u63	Mr. Reporter, tell me first if you've eliminated yourself and dissolved that operational ingredient that is the Ukrainian Security Service that couldn't do you. report that there is a criminal element that can pose a threat to life and national MPs, including? The other one. You know that at a hot point, a real hot spot, a few dozen MPs come out, you don't think it's necessary to raise a unit to combat terrorism to at least protect these deputies, including from the militia, not just from criminality? Third. When there was a previous election in Mukachev, and there was information about the replacement of areas where there were also MPs, whose life protection from terrorist acts belonged to your jurisdiction, or when you did not respond to this information and our statements, personally I wrote an application to the U.S.S.A. for these facts, did anyone take responsibility for it? And last but not least, do the events that are now taking place in Mukachev not remind you of the German chronicle of the 1930s?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u64	As far as I'm concerned. Let me answer that. Ukraine’s security service has not received reports that a national MP is in danger. Yesterday and today, I personally spoke to the people's deputies on the phone, none of them spoke of being in danger or committing crimes that were referred to the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[These, by the way, were deputies from "Our Ukraine."]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u65	Yes, please answer other questions. So let's stop, let's make a decision, dear fellows. Well, please. Please, Stepan Ilkovich, Stepan Ilkovich! Stepan Ilkovich, please calm down. Skomarovsky, "Our Ukraine," please, your question. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u66	I ask you to pass the word to Yuri Carmazin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u67	Please, Igor Vasilovich, sit down, sit down, because there is no way to discuss these issues. Dear fellows, let's deal with it this way, dear fellows! Dear colleagues! Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u68	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u69	So let's think about it this way. Please take your seats! Igor Vasilovich, take your seats. Please! I beg of you, Your Honor, give us a chance. Dear colleagues, let's demonstrate endurance. Please! Igor Vasilovich Drizcany, please sit in the government bed. Dear colleagues, miss the deputy head of the Security Service. Please. Calm down, please. Dear colleagues, let's make this happen: we have seen that there is a need for law enforcement officials to prepare themselves more carefully to give complete information tomorrow, all the answers to the questions that you will have, the national MPs. What do you suggest? Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're talking about this, we're talking about a deal. Let the factions' leadership inform you at the right time. Once again, I would like to say, "Honorable national MPs!" The Conciliation Council decided what is today. I'll put it to a vote. We're on our way. I'll put it to a vote so I don't listen, let me ask you, if you want, no questions. I'd like to say again, dear colleagues. Well, please, sit down, calm down, please. Well, we're not gonna listen to anything right now. Dear people's deputies, we agreed, I want to say once again: Your Honor, we agreed, and you were informed after the Conciliation Council ended, when the break ended, that today at 16 p.m. we will listen to the information of the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Calm down, please. . about events that took place late in the evening and night in Mukachev, especially in the Mesquikkom. The information didn't satisfy you, did I understand? We have agreed that tomorrow we will have a full-fledged discussion of this issue with the participation of the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, authorized by human rights, and the working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we've heard the information, we've moved on to other issues. Please, from the procedure three minutes, I can see they're desirable. And write your motives, please. Three minutes. On the board, please. Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko faction. Tymoshenko, please, the Teeth is passing on. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u70	Give the word to the Turk. The Turk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u71	No, dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Yes, please, let's move on. Ivanov. Impossible. The teeth are gone, Timoshenko says. Timoshenko gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u72	Give the word to the Turk. He asked the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u73	Please, Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u74	Respectable deputies. I want to address all of you, us, here, all present. See what's going on in the hall. We've called two power ministers, two leaders, and we're trying to figure out a situation. The first persons are not, the second persons are speaking. Of course, within a short period of time, they would not answer each of our questions, and if they did not want to, they would not answer either. Therefore, I urge you all, especially the elderly, who run and wave. If you want to break this process and even smooth it out, let's do it. If you want to get to the bottom of every detail, I strongly ask you to keep calm and to find out each and every one of you a little bit of interest to us in order to make the right conclusion and to make a point on these issues once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u75	Nestor Schufric, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u76	Respectful colleagues certainly have many questions about what happened yesterday and April 18 and the day before in Mukachev. And, of course, not only the representatives of our Ukraine, but also the other factions, and, believe me, the united Social Democrats also have a lot of things, there are a lot of questions that we'd like to have at least a partial answer to today. At least that's what I'm talking about. Yesterday at a meeting with Zinchenko, the head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration told him that the management of the BSB had informed him who was coming to Mukachevo to support the elections and what political power. I wanted to ask a representative of the B.S.A., but when you cynically saw my question coming up, you blew it. Let's take a full look. And I'm asking the representative of the U.S.S.A. that the information they've been providing to the head of the Zacarpathian District Administration regarding those who came to support what political forces has been reported to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u77	Yes, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to invite the head of the district government here tomorrow, and I'm asking you very much. And the head of the district administration, because without the participation of these people, all that happened there, like a violent violation not seen in the center of Europe and never before in Ukraine, it must be carefully considered. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a dangerous relapse. I very much ask you and the first persons to present to the force of power are the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. And Rizaka is certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, time is up. No, no more procedures. Dear colleagues, please calm down. So let's think about it this way. If we don't want to -- the people's deputy John said it right, our colleague -- if we don't want to take this issue down, let's be tolerant. If we're going to insist on something right now, we're going to have to. And to say that everything is decided by the session room, then we'll have to ask questions about the inclusion in the meeting schedule, and then I'm convinced that it won't be included. Let's not insist. Let's now ask the heads of law enforcement to give a full and comprehensive answer to the questions tomorrow, and tomorrow let's continue this consideration, not starting a debate and statements from the factions, but now we'll have a discussion on this issue. That's what I'm saying. I don't. I'm just saying, let's, if we want to consider the question, let's look at it. I don't think you want to hear and hear, dear colleagues. I want to say again for John Alexander the Hare. I spoke twice, repeated it three times, and said that tomorrow we would have a broad-based discussion of the subject. If you haven't heard or listened, and you don't want to listen, you just hear yourself, you're shaking like a deaf person. Behave yourself in this room! The question of this day has been completed. Tomorrow we'll continue the question. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Maritime Trade Navigation and the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on amending and supplementing the Agreement is being announced. The committee made a positive decision on this issue, suggests ratifying it. Do you have any warnings, Your Honor? Is there no warning in this regard? Is that what this is about? Please, Pinzenik on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down, because you all understand and see what was going on in Mukachev. And I'm reddish from the lie that sounded from the rostrum. Before the new year, I was unable to get into the Mukatov City Hall and did not have any ID or badges. This is where the election takes place, and the MPs turn: Protect the premises. The premises remain unguarded. We have a statement, Pauline says that MPs are being beaten, thrown out, the S.E.U.S.A. says we didn't have any signals. That's why we have a request, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have a request tomorrow to give the MPs a chance to demonstrate a film, a documentary about the events that took place in Mukachev. The other one. On behalf of the faction, we ask that you multiply copies of the reports of the district commission on the results of the election. We have all the original protocols in all the districts. Let all the deputies see what happened yesterday in Mukachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u81	Okay. I ask Adam Ivanovich to submit the relevant documents so that we can make a decision. Dear colleagues! Is there any warning about the draft of this document? None. Then I'd like your attention, dear colleagues. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Maritime Shipping and the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement. Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[16:55:01]] For 346 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a draft decree on the Ukrainian Government's Day in May 2004 on the state and pricing of housing and utility tariffs is under review. Reporter Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, prepare Matthew Valentine Josephovich. Very briefly, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, since Ukraine's economy began to evolve under the dictatorship of the International Monetary Fund, the so-called radical market reform course, the real economy in our country has been virtually destroyed and the state is, in general, placed in a debt pit. One of the conditions that you remember from the International Monetary Fund was that of paying 100 percent of the cost of housing services to those using these services. According to articles 46th and 48th of the Constitution of Ukraine, the State guarantees every citizen a standard of living not less than the minimum of living, which includes the cost of housing. The same rule is laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, this is article 25th. Article 22 of the Constitution forbids the adoption of new laws to restrict existing rights and freedoms. The Housing Minimum Act provides that the cost of residential services in the housing minimum must be up to 12 per cent. Contrary to the law, the work of officials has led today to a wage of up to 50 percent of the average wage for community services. The minimum pension is now 97 dollars. It's actually not enough to pay for residential services, electricity, gas. The subsidy policy, in our view, is the abuse of our people's misery. So far, debt for residential services has already exceeded 7 billion dollars. Since the beginning of the year, prices for residential services in almost all regions of Ukraine have risen sharply again. When we, the Ukrainian people's deputies, hear from the government, where the limit to which housing prices have to be raised to make them pay and the population can pay them regularly. As a result, we, the communists, offered to spend this May, this year's Government Day with a day-to-day agenda on the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere. We consider this matter to be relevant, very relevant, and we believe that we today should listen to the government, what measures will be taken in the near future to stabilize and bring it into line with the income and expenditure that each family today has, and to create normal conditions to ensure the standard of living of our citizens. Thank you. And I propose to support draft Decree 5336 on the Government's State and Price Development Day for Housing and Utilities in May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u83	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Josephovich is the seat of the committee. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy May I have your attention, Your Honor? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u84	The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investments considered at its meeting in March this year a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Simonenko. It is therefore proposed that the draft regulation be held in May 2004 at the Supreme Council of Ukraine Government Day, with the agenda “On the situation and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere”. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have any comments prior to that draft regulation. In general, the Committee is of the view that this observance of the Government's Day affects the vital interests of the people of Ukraine, on the one hand. On the other hand, it allows the ruling regime to at least bring into order a regulated economy, technology and the very contents of Ukraine's housing and utility. Practically, the Government's actions in this critical sphere of life of the people will show how ready our country, Ukraine, to integrate either into Europe or into the Single Economic Area. The field of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers is very wide. The Government is therefore under an obligation to monitor prices and tariffs for these services and to develop a competitive attitude in this area. It has an obligation to improve the housing grant mechanism, to introduce calculated housing and utility consumption standards for benefits and subsidies. The quality of services provided, the very work of utilities, must be monitored closely by the State budget. Prevention of accidents, technological catastrophes in housing and utilities. The Government should propose restructuring and cancellation of debts, accounts receivables for housing and utility services. That is to say, the Government's scope is so high as to cover all the vital interests of the people of Ukraine, that without such consideration on the Government's Day, the state and the formation of prices and tariffs in the area of housing and utilities are simply not to be avoided. The Committee is of the view that it is possible and necessary to support the draft decision made by Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u85	May I have your attention, Your Honor? I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5136 on the day of the Government of Ukraine in May 2004, with the order of the day "On the situation and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere." [[17:01:46]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Will everyone please start speaking? Please, Richter. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u87	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u88	The question is indeed the right one. We suggest that the Cabinet of Ministers prepare, move the question to June and vote on this determination -- just change May to June. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u89	No objections to the initiators? Then I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in June 2004 with the order of the day "On the Status and Formation of Prices and Tariffs in the Housing and Utilities Area." Registration number 5136. Please vote. [[17:02:47]] For 314 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on Amendments to Article 3.3 is being announced for consideration. 4 Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the procedure for recording the speech, a draft finalized. We've already looked at it. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, head of the committee. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u90	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The March 24 committee discussed the proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies Bespalogo, Nadraga, and Karmazin by the February 17, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine based on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending article 3.3. 4 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine The committee mainly took into account the proposals made in the above-mentioned draft Order by the National MP of Ukraine Bespalim, in particular the use of the random number generator in the formation of the turn of the speech and in keeping with the turn of the national MPs of Ukraine, members of various MP factions and groups according to their numerical composition in order to reduce it. As well as the possibility of applying the Supreme Council of Ukraine. and set up a different way of giving a word to address individual issues. The committee rejected the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, particularly the Nadragah, which referred to the first-line intervention of representatives of factions and groups, as well as the Karmazin People's Deputy, such as those that did not match the concept adopted on the basis of the project. The committee noted that Ukraine’s national deputy Carmazin had made the same proposals that reiterated the content of the previous Supreme Council and Ukraine’s draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of February 10 of this year at registration number 4304-1. A draft decision of the Supreme Council, which has been completed by the Committee for the second reading, is being submitted to its consideration with the suggestion that it be accepted in a second reading and in general. You have a comparative table of amendments. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u91	Yes, dear colleagues, who insists on making adjustments? Thank you. Well, wait, is Draga Vasil insisting? No, it's not. Let's move on. Insomnia Boris, second amendment, do you insist? Microphone, please. Dear colleagues, I don't see anything. Come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u92	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I'm actually proposing a slightly different little scheme. All of us can see that it is not possible to sign up to the Rules because there are queues there. What does the committee suggest? In general, the ideas that he put in it, and think about it, they're noble. But when we're asked to line up every day, it's not clear which, it's just strange things. So I'm proposing a completely different scheme. Any national MP can freely sign up for any issue of the agenda. Computer sorting is still being done, which can be done in two ways: either with the number of factions and fractions, or without consideration. It's kind of like the committee's proposal to sign up for "Variance." That makes sense. Distrust in computers will take us a long way, and we will be a laughingstock in the center of Europe when we line up a mile [km] line, and we will tear down all the meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u93	Dear Boris Yakovich, and now they're lined up, as you say. But the committee does not support your proposal to change the order that is now in place in the Supreme Council and that does not govern the majority of the people's deputies. So your amendment in this sense is out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u94	I'm voting on amendment number two of Boris Bespalogo. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[17:08:14]] Z-70. Correction not accepted. Third amendment. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the constituency of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer part of the first article of article 3.4. 4 in this paper: "A statement on the presentation of a word in a plenary session on any issue of the agenda, including the presentation on the question of 'Valse', either at parliamentary hearings, or its refusal by the national deputy of Ukraine to mark it in the relevant section of 'Computer databases'. Registration of applications for a word in plenary session” from the National MP’s personal computer, which is connected in an established order to the network or from a personal computer installed in the towers of the House of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This gives democracy to the process, it doesn't make any lines that the people's MP Bespalai has justly spoken about. I don't understand why the committee rejects this, because we live in the 21st century, not the Communist era. I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u96	Dear colleague Karmazin, the committee did not take your amendment into account, first of all, on the basis of the requirements of the current Rules that a national MP should register on any issue, not through his 31 assistant consultants, using a computer base or even more computers outside the Hall of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u97	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Carmazin. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[17:10:26]] For-56 Yes, the amendment. 56, no decision taken. Sixth Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u98	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will demand all the corrections. Let people know what the repairs are, because you can't do that. Part 2 of Article 3.3. 4 I suggest you put it this way: "The entrance to the computer base is exactly what is now not understood - the registration data of the statement of consent at the plenary meeting and the confirmation of the entry of the mark will be ensured by the introduction of the personal password established for the Ukrainian People's Deputy." Thus, there will be no helpers, and the national MP himself will vote and enter. I understand my colleague who is now standing in the rostrum because the Communist faction has no helpers working. Money is used in a different direction. We use this money for the legislative process. And so personally from this computer that we have right here in this room, can we write it down or can't we? Why can't we just log in now? So we also have to write it down here, right here in this room. We sit down, and this computer is logged in, and then the computer takes a sample of who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u99	Dear Mr. Carmazin, first of all, I'd like to say, don't judge how the Communist faction works. Its work is evident from both the vote and the very vital bills that are being considered and adopted by the Supreme Council. This is confirmed by voting today on the bills adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for your amendment, I once again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, repeat, all these suggestions Mr. Carmazin made in the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was not supported by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u100	It's the 6th Amendment of Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:13:00]] For-69 Correction not supported. The 8th Amendment of Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u101	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I propose that if a person does not own a computer, then a written statement of his desire to speak to a national MP should be made personally if he does not know how to use a personal computer and the need to file a statement arose directly before or during the consideration of the matter, and the national MP does not have access to a personal computer or wants to pass his turn on to another national MP. As for my colleague's statement, which has just commented on me, I want to say one thing. The result we have made today is a betrayal of Ukraine’s interests, and it is not possible to be proud of it. This has to be feared, because what's done is that history puts everything in place -- the result is one percent, which is going to get it in the election. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u102	Thank you. In fact, one of the bills that was passed as a law was voted by almost half of the members of the faction "Our Ukraine". So I think you should make the right conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u103	I'm voting on amendment number eight of National MP Yuri Karmazin. Please make up your mind. [[17:14:51]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Amendment of the 10th Jury of Carmazin. You insist, Yuri Anatolyovich, on it? Microphone, please. And eleven. If possible, two arguments at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u104	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, they're different, so I'm going to separate them. Part four of article 3.3. 4. I propose to write in this paper: "In the case set out in part three of article 3.3.4, a written statement shall be transmitted to the worker of the apparatus. upon which the responsibility for the organization of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is laid down, which shall immediately, with the use of its own access, indicate the application of the national deputy in the relevant section of the computer database of the registration of the statement in the plenary session. Thus, they have the ability and ability to use a computer. Now, let's do this. Next, 10th Amendment. A list of those who wish to speak with a designated MP may contain the person’s last name only once. So we're not going to be able to write down several times the same question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u105	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I repeat, all of Mr. Carmazin’s amendments to the computer record for the national MPs. The committee did not support these proposals by the national MP Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u106	I'm voting for Amendment 10 of Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:16:45]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Amendment 11. I'm also putting her to the vote. Well, please, the microphone. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'm asking you from the same thing, we voted. As long as you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u107	Yuri Carmazin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I've justified the 10th, I haven't justified the 11th. I told you we can't base them together. It's about in the 11th amendment that all the information on statements of any kind is part of the meeting protocol and has to be stored together with other components of the protocol and in the computer database. Why is this necessary? In order that if the issue of unconstitutionality becomes a matter, and it will now be with those questions that have arisen today, it is necessary. Then you can ask the question that such a deputy was not present at all in the hall, that he couldn't go on like that. This will have to be investigated in the Constitutional Court. So that's what this amendment is all about. And I ask you to vote. It's good for everyone. The time will come, they may ban a party, but there may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u108	I'm voting for Amendment 11 of Yuri Carmazin. [[17:18:20]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Amendment 12. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u109	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." I have an offer for both Valentin Grigorovitch and the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council. I propose to delete the norm that allows without writing down the speech from the oral address to take the word at any time to announce the procedural question. This is an archaic norm, unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhailovich is not listening. This is a completely archaic norm, because now there are no procedural issues since the adoption of the Constitution. It means just to talk, you can take the word at any time that we have. It's still being proposed. At any time, the deputy may take the floor to point out to the chairman. I wouldn't say that in case you're always satisfied with the chairman's actions, but in my opinion, having such a regular norm is just, I don't know, full archaicism. They do not improve, they do not change the law, but they do greatly. Let's take down the standards that the whole world is laughing at.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u110	Thank you, Boris Jacobovich. We've already had an exchange of thoughts about your proposal. The committee discussed this issue and rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u111	I'm voting on Amendment 12 of Boris Bespalogo. [[17:20:08]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 13. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please. 13 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u112	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It's about regulating the issues of our reduced procedures. The point is that if fewer than three deputies are previously registered to speak out on a matter of social interest, then a summary can be made. If we see that this issue has a social interest and there are more than three deputies showing a desire, i.e. "for," "against," only in such a reduced mode, then the rules of the short-term procedure do not apply. That's what my proposal is all about. Well, besides, I have proposals with respect to the MP's quota, groups have according to the number of people's deputies, because we represent a faction with 100 deputies, and that can't be equal to the faction of 14 deputies. This should be taken into account. The committee didn't take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u113	From the motives that I spoke about earlier, the committee did not take into account the proposal made by the national deputy Carmazin, because they refer to a completely different draft decision that he had made earlier and, I repeat, was not supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u114	Amendment 13 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[17:22:08]] For-55 The decision is not taken. All amendments have been voted on, Your Honor. Boris Bespali, what's your correction? 15th? Please, Boris Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u115	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I immediately asked for the right word. You did not listen to my correction, so I asked for a word in line with part one of article 3.8. 7 and the happiness that one of the 450 deputies asked for. By those standards, when my amendments have been rejected, now each of the 449 deputies has the right to take the floor one by one to make an observation. Now, consider what my correction you've rejected. If you do not give a single MP the right to make an observation, you will violate the Rules. So I'm still addressing, I don't know who, to my colleagues, you'll probably agree to my 12th amendment, which still removes such a rule when every deputy in any second can take the floor to make a point to the chairman. But in this case, I'm protecting you from yourself. Well, take good care of yourself, but there can't be such a standard that everyone should make a comment at any time. Why do you need this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u116	Boris Yakovich. Boris Jakovic, I'm addressing you, even if I didn't support the committee, I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment by the National MP Bespalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, the national MP Bespali is right, we must vote in favour of this amendment. I'm voting on Amendment 12 of Boris Bespalogo, and I'm asking everyone to vote. Please vote. [[17:24:11]] For 285 Decision taken. I thank Boris Yakovich. Dear colleagues, all the amendments have been voted on. The committee’s proposal is to put to the vote for adoption in the second reading and in general as a decree specifying that this decision takes effect from the date of its publication, in order for the computer system to take effect. There was a time to redesign the computer system. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u118	The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u119	I am voting on the second reading and the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend article 3.4. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the procedure for recording the speech, registration number 4304, specifying that this ruling takes effect from the date of publication. Please vote. [[17:25:18]] For 274 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on the issues under discussion, that is, take the documents as a basis. A draft law on the organization and circulation of credit stories is announced for consideration. We've been looking at this document. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I ask Victor Cappuccino to remind you very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been looking at this bill a few weeks ago, and we've talked a lot about supporting this bill, about how important it is for us to accept it, because it creates a quality new situation in the financial and credit market, it reduces risks, bank risks, and it also entails a decrease in the bank interest, which is very important for consumers and in general for our country's consumer market. So, given that, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. There are some warnings about the confidentiality of information regarding the statutory capital of these offices. We discussed these warnings on our financial committee. I think we'll take them into account and consider them in our second reading. And now, on the first reading, I ask you very much to support this important bill for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Organization of Credit History. Registration number 4196. Please vote. [[17:27:06]] For 241 Decision taken. A draft Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs is being announced. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs, registration number 3189. Please vote. [[17:27:44]] For 326 Decision taken. The committee suggests, if there is no objection, that this law be passed as a law as a whole. No objections? I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a bill for the draft Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs. [[Registration number 3189]] Please vote. [[17:28:23]] For 317 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium on Forced Recruitment and Arresting of Fuel Energy Enterprises is now under review. Bronnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich, head of the subcommittee. Please take the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u122	Dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to two related laws that will allow all of us together to get away from that chaos of wind-offs, to get away from that chaos in the financial environment that has taken place in our electricity. These bills will allow time to calculate debts, allow time to calculate with miners, allow our energy to be removed from the shadow state in which it is located. The laws remove all energy intermediaries. We call on the deputies from the faction “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko to support this law, because it is your leaders who have begun to order in energy and many of you have pledged to support energy at meetings. We call on Communists and Socialists to support this law, because many of you have been direct energy creators and you know the conditions under which ordinary people of Ukraine live and operate. Of course, we hope for the support of the members of the majority. The law on moratorium and the law on debt repayment for energy carriers we propose to adopt on first reading to bring it to a state where we can give a tangible break. These bills have been in the hall for a very long time and have not been thoroughly considered there. That's why they're getting old. Within two weeks, we will complete them and offer them to you in final form. We ask you, the Ministry requests the Government to ask all energy to support this law, as it eliminates mediation and opens up normal life to energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u123	Thank you, Volodymyr Costinovich. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Moratorium Law on Forced Recruitment and Arresting of Fuel Energy Enterprises. [[Registration number 4383]] Please vote. Dear colleagues! We've already discussed this issue, there's going to be a vote, there's already been a motive. [[17:31:13]] For-167 The decision is not taken. A draft Energy Debt Act is being announced for consideration. The argument has just been made to you. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Energy Debt Act. [[Registration number 3605]] Please vote. [[17:31:50]] For 178. Bills have not been passed, or laws have been rejected. A draft decree on parliamentary recommendations is being announced for consideration. What? Dear colleagues! I want to remind you of them. That we closed the eyes that had already voted once, they were rejected, put to the vote again. Let's not push what we can't push. You know, there's no way to put it. A draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "Oncological Diseases in Ukraine, Problems and Ways to Overcome It" is being announced for consideration. Please, Mikolo Efraemovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You and I have conducted parliamentary hearings on cancer in Ukraine, problems and ways of overcoming it. This draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation and Recommendations has long been given to you, and there are only some clarifications that have come from different groups, factions, and the Ministry of Health. First. This removes the name from the recommendation text such as the interregional cancer center, which could be accepted. Next. On page three, it's like, "There are no standards. Providing specialized medical care to cancer patients." It is recommended that the dates are not "not available", but "no modern standards are introduced." On page 6, the last paragraph in the back: "Promote the development of domestic production of cancer drugs, including the repair of individual production cycles of façades, packaging of drugs, etc. Including.'and still until the end of the sentence delete. And in the last paragraph, "In 2004, take steps to purchase medical devices in the form of generic forms produced or fasciated." "Fast" to delete. "And including those produced by domestic producers." To include the word "including." At the same time, a proposal was made on page seven to make such changes in paragraph 1. In order to improve the quality of specialized cancer assistance to create inter-regional cancer centers in the cities of Donetsk, Kharkiv, Odessa, Lviv, Simferopol, Dnipropetrovsk and Kiev, to strengthen them with modern equipment, including linear electron accelerators and support, it is recommended to support domestic producers of radiological, diagnostic and medical guidance and radioisotopic diagnostics. The third paragraph of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense's subsection is to develop the principles of tendering for the purchase of anti-personnel drugs and radio-pharmaceuticals. On page 8 of the first paragraph of the top, it is recommended to improve the curricula of oncological medical schools, prepare doctors of general practice, family doctors, oncologists, oncochematologists and others, because oncoradiologists, chemists as such do not exist. And in the last paragraph of this, it is recommended that the radiation security coverage service be provided with modern dosimetric and measurable technology and that the MoH of Ukraine be able to rationally use the funds allocated under the Oncology programme to adjust the cost of purchasing medical and diagnostic equipment and chemical products.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, now on the ground. I'm voting for the adoption on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft regulation, taking into account the proposals that have just been made, clarifying the proposals from the committee, registration number 5300 on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u126	The committee is asking for the support of the distinguished national MPs. You know how active the work was in this. Please be supportive. [[17:36:24]] For 348
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u127	For -348 supported. Paul Silent, please, microphone. Microphone, please. Paul Silencer, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Miklo Efraemovich. You know, at the parliamentary hearings, Professor Tarutinov spoke on this subject. He expressed the view of the Academy of Sciences. At that time, he asked that we be included in this paragraph in parliamentary hearings, which are now extremely appropriate for Ukraine. Because nowhere do women today suffer as they did after Chernobyl in Ukraine. He asked for the establishment of a National Medical Diagnostic Mamology Centre based on the Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology and Radiobiology of Kwetsky's name and to provide it with adequate facilities, necessary funds and an appropriate state. Mikolo Efraemovich, you know how painful this is. I'd like everyone to support this proposal from Professor Tarutinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the Kavecki Institute is an experimental institute. In the Institute of Clinical Oncology, there is a department and department of mammology, or breast surgery. And the creation of such an additional center is not appropriate. Although that was the recommendation. He doesn't have a base today. He's retired, and he doesn't have Tarutins. That, I mean, is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, since the proposal was oral, there was no expert on the committee, and the committee is now not supporting the committee. Therefore, I am voting for approval in the entire draft of this decree without the amendment proposed by Paul Mokchan. I would like to vote on the whole draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend parliamentary hearings on "Oncological Diseases in Ukraine. Problem and ways to overcome," registration number 5300. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u131	People's deputies, please support the ruling. [[17:38:41]] For-360
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u132	It's been decided. A draft regulation on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings "The spiritual crisis of society and its ways of overcoming it" is being announced for consideration. Paul Silent, please make an offer to the committee. Let's have a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. You know, there have been parliamentary hearings that have expressed all the concerns and are systematized into a whole range of proposals. Then we made comments, we worked with the committee, we systematized them, and we submitted the optimal option that I'm going to ask you to support. Thank you. And he asked Ivan Fedorovich Kuras, who said that they would be sure to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u134	I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the spiritual crisis of society and its ways of overcoming it for adoption as a whole as a decree. Registration number 4407. Please vote. [[17:39:53]] For 285 Decision taken. A draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Summary of the Year of Persons with Disabilities held in Ukraine in 2003 is being announced for consideration. [[on the provision of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities]] Yes, the reporter was to be Valery Suškevitch. Peter Cibenko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, on March 10th we were with you at the parliamentary hearing with the order of the day that has now been declared. We in the committee have been extremely careful to deal with those proposals that were made by the people's deputies, the ministries, the public organizations of the disabled and so on and so forth. We tried to make the most of the suggestions that went to improve the document. And so the committee proposes to support the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee as a whole as a Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the summation of the 2003 Year of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on the provision of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities]] Registration number 5401, please vote. [[17:41:50]] For 329 It's been decided. We continue our work for 15 minutes. A draft law amending Chapter 11 of the Customs Tariff on customs duties for textile and sewing products is being announced for consideration. Second reading. The reporter is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u137	Dear colleagues! Draft Law 3620-2 is a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to advance the signed agreement between Ukraine and the EEC. So it changes several positions on textiles, takes off duty. Of the proposals made, six were submitted to the bill, five were incorporated into the bill, one was rejected by Vasjunnik's colleague, he proposed a mixed rate, it did not pass by agreement, and we cannot continue to do so. Therefore, the only technical group 6302291000 fell out, which is a technical material from the fabric or fiber of the frame. With this amendment, I propose to vote in the second and in general. Thank you. This is the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, who insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? Nobody insists? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as a bill amending chapter 11 of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on customs duties for textile and sewing products. Registration number 3620-2. Please vote. [[17:44:08]] For 336 The law is passed. A draft law on the approval of a state-wide programme for the conservation and use of cultural heritage objects is being announced. Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky. There's no Nikola Grigorovitch? Who will report from the committee? Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, please. Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on comments, suggestions that have not been taken into account? They're all accounted for. No objections That's why I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill for the draft law on the approval of a state-wide programme for the preservation and use of cultural heritage objects, in the second reading and in general as a law. Registration number 4028. Please vote. [[17:45:19]] For 303 The law is passed. A draft of the Milk and Milk Products Act is being announced. Sergei Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u139	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Your second reading of the draft Ukrainian Milk and Milk Products Act, registration number 3077. He was accepted as a member of the profile committee. I understand the mood of fellow national MPs. The law can't answer all the questions, but I'm asking you to support the bill. I'm not going to call those numbers that are in the animal business today, but this situation requires state intervention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u140	Honorable colleagues, who among the national deputies who made the proposals insist on their rights? Please, noschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment is the sixth amendment. This is about the fact that the milk producers did not include the population as well as the individual agriculture. The amendment, it was written "accounted for," "calculated partially." If this is a technical error, please confirm. If not, please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u142	Dear Mikola Petrovich, your amendment is included in the working group, except for technical reasons, it is not printed here, so I ask that it be noted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u143	I mean, for the stenographer, we're stressing once again that this amendment is taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u144	Nightnight Mikoli Petrovicha counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u145	This is a technical error. What's that? 17 please. He warms up the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u146	Dear Chairman! Dear reporter! You really confirmed that after the committee had considered this bill in its second reading, an additional working group had been formed, involving representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives of the Agro-industry complex, including the Ministry of Agriculture, where there were substantial remarks concerning a number of articles and where the working group had supported them. So, Sergei Mikolaiovich, I'd like to confirm, in particular, about wastes; where we're assigned to the task force and the working group supported the position that actually in milk production there's waste or secondary raw material that needs to be processed. It is also confirmed that the Cabinet of Ministers can influence the pricing through intervention purchases from international sales in price formation and the market for appropriate implementation of milk. The manufacturer’s duties are also being reworked.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u147	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, indeed, as Boris Yuhimovich says, we have raised a number of questions after we have considered the bill's committee, so we'll obviously count them when we're adopted in the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u149	Wait, we're reading third. Are we gonna read it for the third time?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u150	There are a number of difficult articles that need to be published for the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u151	I see. Any other changes? Who insists? Please, warm up. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u152	36th Amendment. The working group confirmed the position in this section to support the amendment. So there is either an offer to agree on it or an article to consider on the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u153	Better guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u154	The committee agrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u155	The 36th amendment agrees with the committee. Who else insists? 50th Amendment, Warming up. 70th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u156	The 70th amendment is about reprocessing the processor's secondary raw material. And the working group worked and agreed that the amendment should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u157	Boris Yuhimovich, that's when we talked about how non-exhaustible technologies are used in milk production. As a result, the amendment was rejected. Then let's vote on it and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u158	The vote is the amendment of the 70th of Zagreb and of the Yukhnowsky. [[17:50:49]] For-83 Correction not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u159	Then perhaps we can go back to the amendments that Boris Yuchemovich had told us to accept in the second reading? Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u160	What other adjustments, who insists on amendments? Conspiracy, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u161	I had two adjustments. First amendment. It's because of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u162	What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u163	I don't remember the number. Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u164	What's the number of the amendment, and I'm not going to look for a hundred amendments to your amendment. What an article, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u165	Two amendments, they're in writing. Let's go to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u166	I'm saying again, what's the amendment, what's the number? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I don't remember the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u167	Well, I don't remember either. Please, who else insists on repairs? 95th. Warm up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u168	The 95th amendment relates to pricing. The production of milk and milk raw materials. In this amendment, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers influence the pricing of milk, milk and milk production by adding to storage, consumption, and so on. The purchases and the inte. go the sale of milk and milk products, as well as the promotion of the export of milk products. The Cabinet of Ministers in this amendment proposes to allow for the development of the order of payment for storage and so on. purchases, sells, stimulates exports and agrees with these proposals with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations and the Committee on Budget Affairs. It is now envisaged that the cost of regulating the price of milk and milk production, milk production, is provided for in the national budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u169	The point is that this amendment is included in the preceding article. It's accounted for, and this is how prices and sources are regulated. So she's practically counted the whole Boris Yuchemovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u170	Do you insist on voting on this amendment? But it's included in article 15. Don't insist. So, dear colleagues, who else insists on their amendments? What amendment to Rudkowski? Dear colleagues, no one insists on repairs anymore? Who's there? I'll take a look. The fiancees, please amend. What's your amendment number? Let's do the correction. What's the repair number, the Veratennikov microphone, please turn it on. If you are not preparing for this, no one will be preparing for you. Please, the microphone. May I have your attention, please? Repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u171	Well, it's not in front of your eyes, it's not. But the point, I say, is he knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u172	We don't have one either, and we won't. Dear colleagues, who are still insisting on their amendments that have not been taken into account? No, it's not. I'll take the vote, please. It's a pervasive law. For adoption in second reading as a whole as a law, the draft Law on Milk and Milk Products. Please, Your Honor, vote. Let's support the people in the village who, by reason of the milk, provide their livelihood. This is a project of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm asking you, dear colleagues. [[17:54:21]] For-174
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u173	A lot of issues. We have to take the third reading out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u174	I'm voting on re-reading the project. Registration number 3076, re-read. The problem is that milk processors are sitting here, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u175	There are three articles left. [[17:54:53]] For 247
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u176	For 247, the decision is made. Please, with the motivations of Pinzenik and Rudzkowski. Please sit on the second we've already sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u177	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. As we listened to the report of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Mukachev, another event took place. Stolen by the same unknown persons in the head of the Matthews Committee. In doing so, they beat up the lawyers. It's on the shores. Mukachev is gathering a formation bank and preparing new provocations in Mukachev, including an attempt to capture the protocols of the territorial electoral commission. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to contact the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the preparation of new provocations in Mukachevo and for the kidnapping of the files of members of the district commission from our colleague, Matvienka. This is what happened today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u178	I ask the Secretariat, along with Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, to prepare appropriate appeals to law enforcement structures. Please, Rudzkowski. Matvienkov, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u179	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In turn, the people of Ukraine now have neither milk nor meat. Let us at least accept them according to the Law on Milk and Meat if humans no longer have milk or meat. These laws may provide an opportunity for humans to develop milk in at least five or ten years ’ time. And the fact that some of the national MPs don't vote in favour of such important laws, I ask you, you travel in the region to your deputies, you have to be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u180	I've announced Matvienkov, enough. It's not a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u181	Matvienkov, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, when we talk about such a very important problem - about the problem of milk, we should have understood that we should not worry about creating a common one, let us talk about a bastard from whom we could finance something, but we must also remember that grandmother or grandfather who gives three, four, five litres a day and thus earns her pension and ensures her existence. Thus, by enacting this law, we are indistinguishing this category, and we do not see it at all. Therefore, for the third reading, I very much wanted the Committee to study this category, to protect this category of the population, so that it could be taken into account by you. And it was reflected, and their actions were reflected in this law. Thank you. That's when he'll pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u182	A draft Law on Meat and Meat Products is being announced for consideration. Please. Sergei Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u183	Honorary colleagues, the Meat and Meat Products Act, are also considered and adopted unanimously on the committee. The law is also not simple and, again, cannot answer all questions, but three basic points: First, that this law is adapted to European legislation to some extent, secondly, it sets clear standards, and thirdly, it obliges the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate the minimum price for meat and meat products. This is what the distinguished deputy of Matvienkov was talking about. There were 54 suggestions, 32 comments taken into account, part rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u184	Who insists on their proposals that have not been considered? I can't see. So I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft of the Law on Meat and Meat on second reading and in general as the Law. [[Registration number 3077]] Please vote. 3077, this is the second reading. Please vote. [[17:58:54]] For 193 I'm all colleagues, I understand, but then why is the Cabinet of Ministers introducing draft laws when the faction "Regions" doesn't vote? Then let the Cabinet of Ministers pass these laws or call them off. The law is rejected. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the granting of land to cultural, educational, and health workers living in rural areas is under consideration. I, my dear colleagues, am well aware that we are all concerned about people, and above all, we are concerned about processors, about monopolies, not about the common man.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u185	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies? The Supreme Council is proposed for a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Landing to Workers of Culture, Education, and Health in Rural Areas. After considering the bill, 17 proposals and comments from Ukrainian national deputies were received in the first reading to the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. They are all considered carefully on the committee. Then it's taken into account in Committee 13, four are rejected. All the rejected proposals are the National Deputy of the Kingdom, they do not apply to the ideology of the bill in the first reading, because it was about cultural, educational and health workers living in rural areas. He also suggests that the scientific institutions of the rural profile should be complemented by the workers who live here. But this needs to be done in the order of legislative initiative, to consider this situation from the very beginning on the first reading and so forth. Therefore, it is proposed that the prescribed bill be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u186	Domansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We all remember when we were still boys standing in the store in 1947 and buying something. Why, then, did trade officials become involved in this law? Where else we went, you know, they used to drive, drive, drive to the village. And today we're shutting them down! I would like to support today not to introduce a new law, but to add trade workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u188	Dear colleague, I should have made an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u189	Well, I understand, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u190	Now we're not going to make a sound. I'll put it to a vote. Attention, please. - committee proposal: approval in second reading and in general as a bill of the Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the provision of land to workers of culture, education and health care living in rural areas. Registration number 2352. Please vote. [[18:02:15]] For 353 The law is passed. The draft Law on Combined Production of Heat and Electricity and Use of Reduced Energy Potential is being announced for consideration. Sabashuk, please, Peter Pavlovich, head of the Committee's Committee on Fuel and Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u191	Masterful colleagues! This law will allow our enterprises to start emerging from the crisis of the situation that is now. All proposals made by the people's deputies are taken into account. The committee requests that it be accepted in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u192	Dear National Deputies! Since all proposals are taken into account, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the Law on the Combined Production of Heat and Electricity and the Use of Saving Energy Potential. Registration number 2583. Take down the vote. Powder, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u193	By sharing the ideas of the drafters of the bill on the need for a cogeneration facility, we would like to go beyond the principle that we don't provide tax benefits, we provide budgetary incentives for the production of cogeneration facilities. I would like the national deputies who are now voting in favour of this law to understand clearly that we are granting 10 years' tax benefits. As far as it fits the logic of the social orientation of our budget. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to have a representative of the government, the Ministry of Finance, who would say how he feels about this tax policy when we continue to pay taxes in spite of the Budget Act, which is forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u194	Dear colleagues! As we consider the bill, when we adopt it as a basis, then there are government representatives present, and since it is already the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to take decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm betting on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u195	And in the second reading, there are no benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u196	I am voting on the second reading as a whole, as a law, the draft Law on the Combined Production of Heat and Electricity and the Use of Saving Energy Potential. [[Registration number 2583]] [[6:05:13]] For 121 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting is being announced for consideration. [[on hunting periods]] Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u197	I invite all patriots to vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u198	Dear colleagues! A number of suggestions were made. These proposals are all, we can see, taken into account. That's why I'm putting to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting. [[on hunting periods]] [[Registration number 4194]] [[18:06:11]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Calm down, dear fellows, calm down. What's the committee's offer? Who would like to return to the review of this law, registration number 4194, please vote. Go back to the study. [[18:06:46]] For 245 We're back to the debate. I'm voting on second reading approval and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting. Registration number 4194. [[18:07:17]] For 248 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It was found that the information on the second reading benefits, the issue of the benefits in the previous law, was not quite accurate. So there's a proposal to send this bill back to read again. Bill 2583, this is the draft Law on Combined Heat and Electricity Production and Use of Reduced Energy Potential for Re-reading. [[cogeneration]] Registration number 2583. [[18:08:21]] For-174 The decision is not taken. So the law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is under consideration. Registration number 3004.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u199	Dear colleagues, the bill actually budgeted up to 500 million bracelets. He's coming back today. I would like to remind you that the budget has voted that alcohol, which goes to medicine, excise 16 bracelets, proposes 2 bracelets. The excise, which goes on the winery as a primary one, all those who are currently fighting for it on the winepress today are 16 bracelets on the Budget Act - a zero rate is proposed. The alcohol excise, which is going on to produce an oxus, is now 16 bracelets - three bracelets are proposed. The excise, which goes to perfumery today, 16 bracelets, are offered three bracelets. For domestic chemistry, 16 — three bracelets are offered. These issues are addressed in this law. Today, people who produce semi-dry, semi-sweet wines have started much propaganda because they use not wine, but powder. They're taking the powders, they're pouring sugar and water, and today we've got half-sweet and half-dry wines on the counters. Dried wines - 25 copies are proposed for excise duty, 25 copies for stamps and 92 copies for semi-dry, semi-sweet, ordinary ordinary crevices for wine - this is Minfin's position, and it is proposed for six copies from a degree. [[Of semi-dry and semi-sweet]] That's 92 kopecks, actually. According to profitability, they have a profitability of more than 100 per cent. So all the fairy tales that were written and passed on is an association. which represents 20 enterprises. Association. In addition, it has a large number of companies, which represent more than 200 enterprises, and it provides 800 million enterprises. I'm in traffic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u200	Let's just go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u201	Next, then. I'm done, Vladimir Mikhailovich. What's that for? After the repairs. Amendment on page nine. I just want to make a sound. Position 50 on page nine is to reject it from the text completely. So page 29, item 196 is also excluded from the text, as a result of all the factions. Page 33, 229 of the amendment of Gorbachev is also rejected, this is the position of his faction, the workers. Page 26, heading 171. Add the words “after alcohol for grapes”, meaning that there is no limit. And on page 16 of item 89, the amendment of Veretennikov 23 is taken into account at the price of the license on liqueur vodka of 50,000. Therefore, given that all these amendments have been made, please refer to the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u202	Who insists on their amendments that are not taken into account? Sobole, please. Now, now, dear colleagues. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u203	Sobolev, "Our Ukraine." Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please, this law is discussed in the first reading, it cannot be considered in the second reading. There are conclusions from the Legal Department regarding this. And in terms of argument, I've made a number of suggestions. Indeed, the committee counted a number of them. But the key proposal, which is that, in fact, this bill four times -- think about it! - four times more excises on semi-dry semi-sweet wines produced in Ukraine are more than 80 percent. In fact, it destroys not only the wine industry but also the grape industry. This will all end with the cutting of grapes in Ukraine and we will repeat what has already been going on in Gorbachev. So I ask you to consider this draft law in the first reading, as required by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u204	Honourable People's Deputies, the bill has been considered in the first reading and 4001 has been considered three times in the Hall. And all the time, I'm telling you, 20 enterprises, 15 of which are in my native Odessa area, which are dealing with semi-sweet, semi-dry wines, it's a surrogate, I repeat. You won't find any quality wines today. And they torpedo the bill. The bill is now needed more for medicine and for everything else. The wineries. Everything Mr. Sobolev wanted is practically taken into account: both by limits, by hybrids, and by passport. The only thing I asked him to do was talk to Minfin. This position, 92 kopecks, for the budget of more than a hundred million bracelets. That money, if Minfin's ready to take it all into account today. But I know their position, I talked to them again today. The veto will be if this position is taken into account. Because Minfin, in exchange for raising excise duty on semi-dry, semi-sweet wines, which occupy 75 percent of the market, poison people, I'm telling you as a person who grew up under a vine bush. We're dry wines and marocas, I mean, I spent my childhood working with my mom in the field. So we've protected the grapes. And what Sergey Sobolov is protecting today, I've explained to him a thousand times, but he doesn't want to understand it, he's charging the price. Therefore, please do not support this position, we need to support the law on second reading and, Vladimir Mihajlovich, because there are these observations, I agree and in the committee we discussed, let us adopt the law on second reading and transfer it to third reading. And all the positions that need to be taken will still be time to negotiate with Minfin. Please, I have such a compromise proposal today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u205	Dear colleagues, I think we should make a compromise decision that we will now make on the first reading. Why, then, should we move on to a third and then look at, work on, and accept it in the second reading and in general as a law? Then all of this will be in harmony with logic and the Rules. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u206	Okay. I'm in. Let's take it back to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m1.u207	I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac, fruit, alcohol and tobacco products, registration number 3004. Please vote. [[18:15:30]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. schedule for Wednesday. Thanks for the job.
