ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:34]] Registered -435 There were 435 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'm asking the factions to file a statement, and in the meantime, I'm going to announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Is there no objection? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Valentina Seminyuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the delay in referring the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reaction of the previous representative from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Open Shareholders' Commission and the delegation of a representative from the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to complete the construction of a school in the village of Lipne in the province of Žitomir. Jury KRUKA to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the continuation of the construction of the Kalanczak-Suvorov-Kili gas pipeline. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a perfect list of positions of employees who are entitled to a scientific pension. [[BONDARENKO, POLISH AND OTHERS]] Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the transfer of officers to the local government. Jaroslav SUCHI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Committee on Standardization, Metrology and Certification of Ukraine regarding the inclusion of table and kitchen products made of corrosion steel in the list of products subject to mandatory certification. Mr. Oleg PANASOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the amendment of the cap on budgetary financing of the State-owned enterprise “Shit 2 – devil” in the Donetsk region. Petra TLOČKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for illegal construction within the protection areas of the National Museum of National Architecture and the life of Ukraine. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt on salary to the resident of the village of Artemiuk of the Great District of Poltava. Kirila POLIŠČEKA and Vladimir MAKEENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures to implement the provisions of the laws of Ukraine “Pro mortgage” and “On the provision of creditors’ requirements and the registration of burdens”. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution of the work on the creation of the Single State Automated Passport System. Mr. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation arising from the privatization of the Moyov sugar plant in the Vinicki region. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financial situation in the Kirovograd area with regard to the implementation of the Chernobyl Construction Program. Mr Stanislawa NIKOLAENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 26 November 2003 on the completion of the construction of the Gornji Rogaczyk-Genicek gas pipeline in the village of First Instance of the Hersonian Region. Petra KUZMENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 8 February 1994 “On organizational arrangements for the application of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection”. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reason that the government eliminated an inter-ministerial working group from developing the concept of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine's gas transport system. Jaroslav JOJIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian Law on Financial and Credit Mechanisms and Property Management in Housing Construction and Real Estate Operations. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the provision of accommodation to military personnel for the stock of the disbanded military unit A-0267 in the town of Černovetskie region. Jurya LUCENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the loss of Ukraine's State budget as a result of violations of Ukrainian legislation on the use of radio frequency. Vladimir ZUBANOV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of stopping production of steel ropes and metal border in Ukraine. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Civil Servants and Chiefs of Staff and Military Staff of Internal Affairs, of April 9, 1992, with corresponding changes to it during 1992-2003. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of a school in the village of Kirove in the region of Herson. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of funding for work in the development of integrated flood protection in the Tis Zacarpatsk region. Jury CARMAZINA and Petr PROCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitr Tobacco, Head of the State Committee of the Ukraine Building and Architecture on the implementation of measures to prevent the complete destruction and destruction of the 19th century national architecture of the Holy and Nicholas temple in the city of Balgrad Odessa and the allocation of funds for the maintenance and restoration of works. Mr Mikoli NOSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deterioration of the economic situation of the company of the open stock company Žircombinat, Nizhin Chernigivska oblast, in connection with the adoption of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004. YURIA SIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Government to comply with the government’s social benefits to the disabled. Vladimir LÄCHENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the state of compensation for the loss of savings to investors in the region of Chernigiv. Petra SIMONENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the monthly redistribution of the budget allocations of the Directorate of Radio Programmes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Valeria PASTOR AND IgorA LASTA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Tobacco on the subject of the financing of the construction of the teaching and manufacturing workshops of the Strysz High Professional School No.34 of the Lviv Region. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andriy Klav, on the mass exodus of constructions for the placement of advertising shields at popular locations. JURY OF THE ORBS to the Attorney General of Ukraine for blocking the investigation into the case of a citizen of Makarczuk in the District Attorney’s Office of the Kyiv Region. VITALIA ŠIBKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Coordinating Committee for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime at the President of Ukraine for the violation of property rights by the local self-government body, the execution of the Granny District Council of Dnipropetrovska. Dmitry SANDLER to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the Lviv Railway. ROBERT to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of returning the funds owed to the owners of the International Crim Company to their employees. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation in the conduct of the sanctions procedure at the Drogobic Association of Shareholders “Gallol” of the Lviv region. Mr. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, for the abuse of officials of the Donbas regional customs office. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the legality of the privatization of the closed shareholding society “Gluchovecko kaolin factory” of the Winnicki district. [[DRY, OSICA, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the failure of law enforcement authorities to resolve the issue of payment of wages. Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the situation that took place at the school of social rehabilitation in the city of Jenakiyev. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation by trust societies during the privatization process. VITALY SIBKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, regarding the provision of misinformation to the Ukrainian national deputy and the failure to take action to protect the rights of citizens. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Head of the National Committee on Nationalities and Migration on the use of response measures in connection with distribution in the national radio production area, which promotes the cult of violence, cruelty, disrespect for the individual, demeans the dignity and dignity of the Ukrainian. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine by the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Chernivets region. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations for Violations of the Law Enforcement Authorities of Ukraine guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine the rights of citizens to life, integrity and personal security, and their application during arrest and trial of torture, torture and other illegal methods of learning. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of property owners of the former peasant association “Starosanjarska” in the region of Poltava. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Ukrainian Agrarian Chemical Company “Azot” concerning the acquisition of ownership rights of the Herson Regional Company of the State Shareholder Company “Blood of Ukraine”. The Orbit Jury to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the blocking of the investigation into the killing of the resident of the village of Zaplecje Gorišno of the district of Ivano-Frankov. Panels of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the objective review of the Thessaloniki District Attorney’s Office stated that the citizen of Babić and the Solomonian District Court of Kiev would be summoned to the joint venture of Vinner Ford Kyiv. [[TARAN, CITCHNIK, LUKE]] Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the head of the multi-functional agricultural cooperative “Novodolin” of the Odopol region of Odessa. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the gas pipes and other equipment purchased at the expense of the state funds for gasification of the villages of the Boguslav region of the Kyiv region. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the involvement of police officers in the Domanov region of the Mikolai region for the abuse of office. [[RED, BROAD, ALEXIUK]] Stanislav PCHIDENKA to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine regarding the enforcement of legislation on the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces concerning the A-1416 Air Force Captain Vladimir Kalucha, who is to be reduced. Mr. Ivan Mihovič and Mr. KRUČKOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the reasons for sending a special unit of the Ministry of Interior to Zakarpatje. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for defamation by Alexander Olijnik, the First Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine, of information on the situation of the increase in pensions for military personnel released from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces until 1992. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the railway connection from Hutir-Michajilowski station to Suma. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine on the inclusion in the 2004 funding plan of the construction of the Babichivka-Red Army Red Army gas pipeline of the Red Army District of Žitomir Region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the resolution of the transfer of funds to the Uzin garrison. Boris BULGARIA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the enforcement of legislation on the prohibition of pay increases in the education process in higher education institutions. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine on information collection of participants in a general Ukrainian youth conference held in Kiev from 13 to 14 December 2003. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in relation to the preservation of the fire part in a village of the urban type of the Central Uzgorod region of the Zakarpatsk region. TO THE U.S. Department of Health on the possibility of financing the construction of a clinic in the “Old Darnica” city of Kiev. Alexander KEMENYASHA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the restoration of preventive measures and treatment of endemic teeth. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine for free treatment of disabled child residents of Kovel Volinsk oblast. VICTOR BALOGA to the Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in connection with the immediate repayment of debt from the payment of adequate benefits and compensation to the residents of Mukacheve. Valentina Seminyuk to the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region on the improper examination of the appeal by the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning the violation by the judge of the Lightwater City Court of Kravchenko of procedural law in the process of resolving the dispute over ownership of the main technological complex of the Open Shareholder Society “Clean Metals”. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine on the conformity of the laws of Ukraine “On pension insurance”, “On pension insurance of military personnel and members of the primary and military composition of internal affairs bodies”, the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev in the civil case of a citizen of Nikolenka on the actions of military commissioner Federk in the account of his pension. Igora ŠURMI to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification of signs of legalization of income in connection with the signing of a memorandum on the intention to create a joint venture “Crime Titan” between the state-owned company “Titan” and the British company Peter Hambro Mining. Andrija DERKAČA to the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine regarding the adoption of maximum border tariffs for renting technical means of speech. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine regarding the telephone and telephone stations in the village of Lipovice in the region of Ivano-Frankiv district. PENALTIES TO the Head of the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration on violations of the rights of deported persons to pay for the cost of housing and housing in hostels. Vladimir PETREN to the Head of the Commission on the former guerrillas of the Great Homeland War, 1941-1945, at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, concerning the distortion of facts concerning the causes of the death of Hero of the Soviet Union, the commissioner of the guerrilla union of Rudnev. Mr. Tomenka to the Head of State for the affairs of the President of Ukraine regarding the provision of additional information on sources of financing for expenses associated with the stay of President Leonid Kuchma and other senior officials with families for rest and treatment at the Buellerhoe boarding house in the Federal Republic of Germany. Petra KUZIMENA to the Head of the National Insurance Company Oranta for the protection of the rights of citizens affected by the loss of money. Groups of National Deputies - Mihović, OROBETZ, LUKJANENKO and others - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the abuse of office, the compromise of the executive authorities of the Zacarpathian Ombudsman Rizak, which is carried out under the organization of the execution of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the city of Mukachevo and the corresponding mandates and orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Yes, all requests have been voted on. Let's move on to statements, statements, information from factions. We have 25 minutes left to do this, dear colleagues. Victor Pinzenik from the faction of Ukraine. Prepare Gregory Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u2	A statement from the faction of our Ukraine. "Dear MPs, dear compatriots! The deep spiritual crisis, the lack of even human morals, have become a defining feature of Ukrainian authority. This assessment was confirmed by yesterday’s vote on the government program. The majority of MPs have been granted political approval, with which economic growth is reversed for the citizens by lowering the minimum wage, the real size of pensions. Prosperity is regarded in Ukraine as stealing pensioners because of an illegal discount of 70 dollars on the pension recalculation and discrimination in pension conditions. Pension abuse is an example of pension reform. The government and most of them are not concerned about the unique Ukrainian paradox: economic growth is not increasing, it is reducing the budget. "Our Ukraine" another point is that this year's budget turned out to be less than last year's. 88 billion dollars in price increases are less than 75. What is the gap between billions of incomes from the growing economy? You will not find them in the pockets of Ukrainian budgeters or pensioners, for directing them there is not in the rules of today’s authority. According to our estimates, 6 billion dollars have been hidden from Ukrainian citizens this year. And given the higher rate of economic growth, this figure is going to be 10. The faction "Our Ukraine" refers to the people's deputies, the majority. Did your souls become so hardened that you became silent witnesses, and in fact you were part of the government in hiding 10 billion dollars from Ukrainian citizens? You are not impressed by the scale of the schemes. Your honor and morale are not affected by the fact that budget evasion has already become the norm for the policies of an active government. In a situation like this, the faction "Our Ukraine" requires: First, to review, in essence, to adopt a new budget, to ensure that all income is fully accounted for; Second, to take and implement the decision to set the minimum wage of 240 dollars; Third, increase the salaries of budget workers and the corresponding pension rate by 25 per cent; Fourth, extend the range of tariff nets in the budget area; Fifth, to accept the debt owed under article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, to put the full standard of this article into effect. We require consideration of the relevant bill on the resolution of the questions raised in the next plenary week. We also announce our initiative to conduct monthly income control and budget spending. Budget costs should go to higher wages and pensions, not to the interests of individual businesses. The head of the Viktor Yushchenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u3	Gregory Omelchenko of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u4	Grigory Omelchenko, election block of Yulia Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Association of Ukrainian Officers. Honorable colleagues, respected journalists, respected compatriots! We are witnessing when the corrupt criminal regime led by President Kuchma is getting deeper and deeper into the regime of fascism in our country. It has become no longer a secret that criminal persecution is being waged only against national MPs from opposition, but when criminal authorities cross the line and start persecuting children, national deputies from opposition, we need to consider what follows. On March 7, this year, armed fighters dressed as special militia units were captured and severely beaten by the son of the Ukrainian National Deputy, the head of the Confederacy of Free Trade Unions of Ukraine, Mikhail Wolinz - Andri Wolintz, who is now in very difficult condition in the hospital. Violent acts are taking place against other representatives of the opposition. All that is happening in Ukraine is one thing: the current state authority, which is already recognized by the world community and President Kuchma himself, is corrupt and criminal, will do everything possible to remain in power and avoid criminal responsibility. Today, in the Ukrainian people, in groups of people, individuals have the only way out — to act in a state of extreme need for defence. And the Ukrainian people, according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Constitution of Ukraine, have the right to revolt to remove this criminal regime from power and to take adequate action against individual leaders of this criminal regime. Dear colleagues, the interim commission of inquiry has been working for almost two years to hear her report on the outcome of the investigation of the murder of journalists Igor Alexandrov and Georgia Gongadze. And the Presidential majority of the Supreme Council is blocking the hearing of this report. At the last meeting, the interim commission of inquiry approved that tomorrow, Thursday, the question of the report of the Interim Investigation Commission and the information of the Attorney-General on the matter should be put to the vote, as well as the inclusion in the agenda of draft decision No. 4070 on the initiation of the impeachment procedure. The next commission accuses President Kuchma of committing particularly serious crimes, including violent crimes. Let's stop fascism in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, prepare Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, on February 6, 2004, a decree was issued on "On measures to organize the carriage of cars equipped with special devices and the introduction of state registrations of a single model" which would level the inequalities of road users. One of the points of this decree is that the relevant public authorities should take steps to replace the license plate on a public registration plate by February 20, 2004. That is, the replacement was to take place almost a month ago, but the cars with the cool numbers did not decrease. And I don't want to blame this on the leadership of all the state institutions that are responsible, at least for that, by the honourable colleagues who are among the violators of this decree, first of all, those who have prepared it. I'd like to ask you today and in front of our citizens the question of the license plate KM, VR, AP -- everyone already knows, it seems, even who doesn't watch TV, because every day they showed who are the main violators, who are all the problems from. I want to ask a question in front of our Ministry of Internal Affairs, in front of the DAI, what are those numbers II, OO, NN? What category of Ukrainian citizens received these numbers? For what credit, and more specifically, for what money? Who was the initiator of number II, OO, NN? Another question is, what is the 28-1 region in Ukraine that made changes to the Constitution in this case, when the NN number is 28, which means the 28th region, although only 27-24 districts, Crimea, Kiev and Sevastopol, are known in Ukraine? Who is responsible for this? Again, the hard question is, what category of citizens owns these numbers, for what credits, and for what money did they get them? In addition, replacing license plates such as these may not make it safer on the road. Each DAI worker knows that certain numbers or a series of car numbers separate the owner from the obligation to reach traffic rules. Thus, simply distinguishing the figurative features of the number will not make these drivers more resilient, and the roads will be safer. The only thing we're achieving with all these pseudo-reforms, pseudo-European reforms, because there are no holograms on European numbers, we're going to raise the income of the holographic sector and support the number manufacturers. By the way, we need to find out who makes these numbers, how they come in. But then suspicions arise in some interest of the DAI representatives. Remember, in the mid-1990s, the rear-return strips were already introduced, which in a year they refused, but some people said they made millions of dollars. We believe that the issue of benefits with equality between Ukrainian citizens should not be resolved in order to recruit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u7	The word is given by the National Deputy Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of "Ukraine". Get Boki ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine! In our memory, there are still faithful power outages, when for many hours in our gas dwellings, when the water and sewerage were turned off, when the heat and freezing of old people, children and the sick, plants and factories died. During this period of energy, often for months without pay, everyone was given to buy fuel and maintain equipment at work. They did everything they could to get nuclear and thermal power blocks to work electrically. As a truly working elite of society, energy was aware that they could not stop their work for a second, as they would then stop still-working enterprises, Ukraine would become dark - a social catastrophe would come. During those years, energy had been hit by the consequences of the failure of many Governments. During the chaos of Ukraine's financial system, the economy and the population of Ukraine were credited during the prosperity of energy intermediaries, enabling them to survive and begin to rise from their knees. The situation had only been reversed in recent years, and the sale of electricity through price intermediaries had been halted. Ukraine's electricity has begun to stabilize, but to become energy on its feet, to gain the necessary income, to attract investment in order to ensure the country's reliability and energy security, to prevent the old cargo, to prevent the richest brokers who are now feeding certain factions who are aiming at smothering the energy with old debts and then to dictate their conditions to the people of Ukraine. In the second March of this year, factions that allegedly advocate the interests of the common people and democracy by the demagogic statements of the notary fighters for the happiness of the people have in fact prevented the people from having their energy, the energy available to everyone, the energy that sustains everyone's life. If we don't break the electricity situation, we'll be with you in the near future to witness how it's going to destroy itself irreversibly. But 30 pieces of silver will go into the cash registers and pockets of these liars and demagogs. And they care about the lives of people, the international image of Ukraine, the promise given to Europe and the world, to bring order and transparency to energy. The “Regions” faction calls on the President and the Government, all State deputies, to show their will, to create conditions for the recovery of energy and its preservation to the people. We call upon the entire people of Ukraine to distinguish the word from the demagogies from the delinquents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u9	It's the National Deputy Boki of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Simon from the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine made a statement in connection with terrorist acts in Spain. In particular, the faction condemns the organizers of Spanish terrorist acts and strongly opposes terrorism in any way. No motive can justify the death of peaceful people. But it is clear that military intervention in Iraq only contributes to the spread of terrorism by forcing the people to defend national interests, to resort to other available means of combating aggression. The result of these attacks is not those who have made decisions in the war against Iraq or even the military who have been sent to defend the interests of the unknown, but, above all, innocent people in countries that have supported the aggression of the United States against Iraq. [[children, women and old people]] The faction believes that the situation in Spain should force the leadership of Ukraine to think about how we should be with our peacemaking, so-called contingent in Spain. They should use, they mean the President, the government and parliament should take urgent measures to eliminate the threat of terrorist acts in our territory. Thus, the Socialist Party faction in the Supreme Council demands an immediate return of the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq to its homeland. We welcome the leadership of the Socialist Party of Spain, which, immediately after the elections, won the parliamentary elections, announced the withdrawal of Spanish military personnel from Iraq without waiting for the adoption of the Iraqi Constitution. And that's why we're addressing both the President, and the government, and the Presidential majority, and those who supported our deployment to Iraq, to do this act of justice late and to atone for their guilt against the Ukrainian people. At the same time, I want to say a few words about this. In recent times, notorious Vadim Rabinovich, with the permission of President Kuchma and the President's Administration, has been making a number of statements that dishonor the honour and dignity of Ukrainian citizens. In particular, Vadim Rabinovich announced the leadership of the village emissaries as fascists. I have to be honest here that there are no Fascists in the Village News. I, by the way, don't go into the newspaper, but I do know that my father was shot by fascists when I was 17 days old with the deputy editors of Bilenko's Village News, Polishchuk's parents fought on the front, and one of them had his father killed in the fight against the fascists. The chief editor of today’s newspaper, Vasil Grugin, lost his father in the fight against the fascists. And some criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u12	Ukraine, which betrayed him as a thief, President of Ukraine, by violating the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u13	Finish up. Thank you. Simon's word is from the factions of the Company. Get ready, Proscarat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u14	The Honorable Presidium! Dear national MPs, voters! Vladimir Simonov, Ternopil, faction of the Company. The recent events in Ternopolska do not calm society but exacerbate the political situation as a whole from the foolish actions of individual politicians, local leaders, and that is why. A recent session of the Ternopil District Council was torn down by representatives of "Our Ukraine" just as it was in the evil of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The reason is that the tax administration has detected financial distortions in enterprises and a number of commercial structures belonging to individual members of the Supreme Council, which are members of the faction of our Ukraine. Instead of listening calmly to the claims, making conclusions of the kind of "pay and sleep calmly," they brought the unbalanced individual ternopolans under the tax walls, where the fights and fights with the opponents of this action took place. It's a fashion thing in Ternopolis. Some, as they say, do not feed the bread, but let it be noted. They can't understand that they're being used by local businesses and businessmen in "Our Ukraine" for their self-inflicted, self-inflicted purposes: unpaid taxes and unpaid wages. The fight was too small, and the bus took even the underage and fenced the Ternopil station, stopped the main highway for an hour and a half. There is little need for understanding here, but the damage to the state is significant. And there's another event you can't help but react to. At the previous session of the Ternopil District Council, Deputy Irina Rekus, the head of the National Reform and Order Organization saw the European choice of Galicina in respect of the divisions. She offered to address the Supreme Council with the idea of recognizing the Galicina troops as the warring side of World War II and, at the district level, establishing living soldiers who fought bravely under the Brodes with the Red Plague, a pension allowance. Think of it, fellow citizens of Ukraine, who have expressed this impeccable deputy of the Ternopil district council: the SS division of Galicina to be recognized as heroes! This is a terrible disgrace, a violation of the memory of the great victory of the Soviet people! This cannot be forgiven! Another pearl released this deputy to the local press: the Galicians in spirit and blood closer to the Austrians, Poles, and Hungarians than the rest of Ukraine. As a result, they should be admitted to Europe earlier, and the Galicians should be allowed to make an unhindered income trip to Canada and America. Who does this deputy represent? And this MP represents the Reforms and Order party that belongs to Victor Pinzenik, and Victor Pinzenik enters the Yushchenka block! And here, as the indignation that the head says, makes the subject. I was approached by veterans of the city of Ternopol for the nameing of the streets of the district center and to tell everyone in Ukraine about the fact that the "most democratic national-conscious city council" was taking down street names. There are no more streets of Zhukov, Konyev, Vatutina, Ludnikova, Krasovski, and there are streets of Stéphane Bandera, Shuhevich, Tobacco, Polov. It's no different than the city council's "our" name. And the city's head, Bogdan Lewków, is the first to make this proposal and let all the measures of the cities of Ukraine know that even with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u15	Thank you. The word is Tamara Proskuratov from the faction of SDPU. Prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u16	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies. I'm going to talk about an unusual topic for Parliament -- that's the problem of the patriotic upbringing of young people. But I can't speak because I have orders from the pedagogical public of the state to raise the issue. The faction of SDPU(o) shares the concern and position of our teaching colleagues in the fact that the upbringing of modern young people in history, the addition of them to the experience of previous generations, is the main condition that healthy patriotism can and should become the norm of our society, that traditional notions of pride for the Fatherland, love for the people will become the living principles of the majority of the population. We believe that the fighting and labour traditions of our people are the foundation of patriotic upbringing, and these are the times of the Kyiv Russia, and of the Ukrainian and Cossack States, and the feats of our countrymen during the years of war. It is proper for us to praise one another, forgetting the other, to fall from one extreme to another. But there were also Bogdan Hmelnicki, Taras Shevchenko, and Franco, and Gali Golovičovna, who risked their lives by saving the library during the fires, and the Krasnodon Youths, who died in a tunnel at the age of 17 because they resisted the fascist invaders. I was told that for good reason, because on a trip to Lugansk the region was told by the rednecks about how the organization’s activities were being looted on the newspapers. And only after the President's visit did they return face to meaning. And this is just one of thousands of examples. We believe that the problem of patriotic education can only be achieved if a whole system of civic education and education is created in general educational institutions. The first steps in this path have been taken. The Academy of Educators, together with the Ministry of Education and Science and other interested organizations, developed conceptual principles for the formation of the citizenship of schoolchildren. Individual schools started testing a new subject called "We Are Ukrainian Citizens". We emphasize the importance of the theme of our past state. The faction of SDPU(o) thinks it's just in time for the Patriotic Education of Our Young People Act. When it comes to the experience of other states, patriotic education is given considerable attention because patriotism is an integral part of the full functioning and prosperity of any state. Only true patriots will contribute to the development of their state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u17	Anatoly Warfolomyovich Rahansky has a word from the "Trug Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Bandurca.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u18	A statement by the deputy faction of the political parties "Investors and Industrialists", "Urrigible Ukraine". Dear colleagues, at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our faction from this rostrum has already asked questions about the further fate of 580 military residential towns, where some 500,000 people live. It is said that the government’s current decisions on the transfer of these towns to the Ministry of Defence have not been implemented by the local authorities until now, resulting in social problems that remain hostage to their inhabitants. It seems that the Cabinet of Ministers involved in this problem of ministries and departments does not bother the socio-cultural conditions of the military and their families, pensioners, those who are being released in connection with military reform. The Ministry of Defence does not allocate funds for the maintenance of the housing fund, the municipal infrastructure of these towns. That's why they're falling apart and stealing. And commercially-occupied objects are said to have been brought to the pen. Without windows and doors, but according to the Mineconomy Letter, they can be offered only after no one buys them. So they're going to be destroyed. In the area. The constituency is an example of the transfer of military towns to municipal property as early as 1996. This is the village of Mirna and Novoserne. During this time, they are in good condition. And there's a military town, a town like the New Federovka garrison Saki-4, probably known throughout the world as the historic events associated with the 1945 Yaltic conference, and the only one in Europe and the second in the world with a training range for pilots on board. But the housing, the utility, the socio-indigenous infrastructure, it's in a neglected state. The Ministry of Defense is holding back the transfer of this town and other towns of the state. In our view, deterrence, a deterrent to the transfer of these towns is the disagreement between the ministries of defense, finance, economics, and the holding of Ukraine. Our faction has proposed and proposes once again to the Ministry of Defence to prepare these objects for transfer to the local authorities, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide the necessary subsidies to local authorities according to the transmission schedule for further maintenance and development. Please consider the application a repeat request to the Ministry of Defence, Minfin, Mineconomy, Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've run out of time under the Rules. And we have today, you know, quite a lot of legislation that involves what we want to do with you in the next election. So if you don't mind, there's still an application -- Bandurka, which I've already announced, there's an application from the People's Choice, there's an application from the Agrarian Party, and there are two applications that are not satisfied with the answers to the questions. Let's do it this way. We will be able to speak from the faction, those who are dissatisfied with the answer to the questions will certainly receive the first word on Friday. The other one. If I disagree, I repeat, the Rules are already Valentino, the Rules are exhausted. According to the Rules, I have the full right not to allow you to speak, but I would like to ask, do we have on Friday that will change if Friday?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u20	Well, you can explain to people that you won the court and so on. Well, you know. I say who, in order to continue, we will vote who, in order to give the opportunity today, not on Friday, to speak to the workers, but I promise that on Friday they will be the first to appear, is Semenyuk and Kravchenko, on the basis of dissatisfaction with the requests, but to allow only those factions who have signed up to speak. [[10:48:11]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Please, the word is Bandurka, get ready at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u21	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Democratic Initiative Group of Democratic Initiatives draws attention to the following. Since the first January of this year, the Law on Financial and Credit Mechanisms and Property Management in Housing and Real Estate Operations has become effective. Under this law, in the housing market, middle-sized structures in the form of the FFB Building Financing Fund will appear so short - lived that it will allow banks and other financial institutions that are far from building problems to benefit from the free funds that are involved in the funds, as well as the rewards of the builder for recalculating construction funds. And this leads to the inevitable increase in housing itself. Today, housing has been built on the basis of contracts between the buyer and the contractor, on the basis of rations contracts that are invested between the owners of the funds and the direct producers of construction products. The Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the laws on investment activity, ownership provide for the right of the owner to own, use and dispose of property belonging to him, and the practice resulting from the implementation of this law limits these rights. Ukraine's Mortgage Act, which came into effect on 1 January of this year, can completely solve the problem of investing in housing that will ensure for all participants in investment activities, banks, owners of investments, construction organizations, housing customers the reliability of guarantees and mutual liabilities. In our view, it is necessary to implement the Ukrainian Law on Financial and Credit Mechanisms and Property Management in Construction to bring into line with the regulatory framework governing investment in construction. This can be done because of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which we believe is necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, a word from the MP's faction, the People's Choice Group is given to the Overself. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u23	Dear Lugansk Region, People's Choice. Dear colleagues! There's always going to be a lot of politics in our session room. And unfortunately, there are little exceptions that we never use with you in a big way. I'm going back to yesterday. There was a lot of politics here, but there was one question that is largely out of this canvas, which is a test for our common civilization with you, and because the room did not support the question, on behalf of the People's Choice, I would like to ask you all once again with one more request, wish and, if you wish, to some extent an assessment of the situation. Yesterday, we were discussing legislation on equality of rights between women and men and, unfortunately, in this room, which claims to be the guide that leads this country to a “light future” of phrases and thoughts that a woman's place in the kitchen, in the family. And when we talk to you about what we've been through, we've lived with you before, excuse me, some level of pitacanthropes, cave thinking, when it's not clear what ambitions have prevented us from adopting in the first reading a law on women's equal rights in our society. And if we were scared with you today that one of the bills said, "quote on the lists that elect the Supreme Council," then I would like to remind you, my respected colleagues, that this was the first reading and that could be considered for the future, but we were afraid to vote. I therefore reiterate, on behalf of the People's Choice Group, which unanimously supported the bill. We didn't support it because we liked it completely, but we thought that the issue of equality of rights between women and men in this society was a key topic that we should talk about if we wanted to build a normal society with you. Regrettably, we did not want to discuss and raise topics in this room and, accordingly, decide that gender equality, gender equality, first and foremost, women must be respected in employment problems, wage problems, relations with employers, and everything we like to talk about when we leave this room. I would like to recall that 60 per cent of voters are women. Women prevail in society by number, and we owe them quality of life. So I would like to conclude by saying one phrase, please don't turn off the microphone. Dear voters, when you meet with the deputies, ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u24	Please, Semenyuk. Behind her Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u25	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the Special Privatization Supervisory Commission has received a large number of appeals from citizens concerned about the situation of damage to the privatized housing fund by refurbishing the attics to mansards and mansards and improper maintenance and use of auxiliary facilities. From this rostrum, I want to go to all the citizens, which is more than one and a half thousand references, and answer what was done by the Special Control Commission. You and I have already witnessed the collapse of the premises after the superstructures were carried out without the consent of the owners of the dwelling. I took the initiative to the Constitutional Court for the purpose of improperly retaining privatized housing to give an appropriate interpretation of Article 1 and 10 of the Law on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund, which was adopted back in 1992. And I want to thank here the members of the Supreme Council of the Socialist, Communist, Fatherland Party, the agrarian faction who supported this submission and want to report to the citizens of Ukraine. On 2 March of this year, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine handed down decisions on auxiliary premises, basements, Sarai, barracks, attics, cartwheels and so forth, and I pay particular attention to the free common property of citizens at the same time as the privatisation of apartments, whether there are privatized apartments or whether they remain with the state form of property. confirmation of ownership of auxiliary facilities does not require additional activities, such as the creation and entry into of multi - apartment housing units. The court noted that the owners are the property of all the auxiliary facilities. And the rest. I want to point out that Kiev has a House of Owners that I run. This organization worked with us and was meeting together at the Constitutional Court. I want to tell all the citizens who have asked us that we will provide a more detailed explanation on the pages of Voice of Ukraine and Kiev Time, this is the same newspaper that will explain the privatization of housing, owners, their powers and responsibilities in the sharing of adjacent premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u26	Please, Kravchenko, follow him Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u27	Cowboy, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! I applied to the Minister of the Interior for a telegram signed by Pristrejnuk, Deputy Minister, a telegram which gives the police personnel virtually the right to search for transport and to detain the transportation that serves the national MP. The point is that, when we are with you in advance of the most important political campaign on the election of the President, we can today be limited to our rights by stopping our transport and letting us walk. I addressed the Minister personally in order to draw his attention to the inadmissibility of such instructions to GAI workers. The First Deputy Gussarov replied, and I treat him with great respect, even though I don't know him, he must be a normal, decent person. But let's finally define it this way: if I address the Minister, and every national MP, the person to whom we address is the one that has to answer. This practice is already being disseminated on all parliamentary requests, when the person is responding is completely incompetent in the area in which I speak. Therefore, I am not satisfied with the answer, and I ask the Minister of the Interior to answer me that this is the text of a telegram issued by GAI workers on vehicles that serve members of the people and that what further instructions will be issued by the Ministry in order to limit the activities of the people's deputies in the performance of their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u28	Yes, from the faction of the Agrarian Party of Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u29	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party commissioned me to make a message. In accordance with Article 4.2.2. and Article 4.2, paragraph 8, 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and Decisions of Ukraine’s Agrarian Party, protocol 73 of March 16, 2004, report that the head of the faction of Ukraine’s Agrarian Party for the fifth session has been elected Ukrainian national deputy Glady Mihail Vasilovich. Authorized representatives of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine consider the national deputies Jeremeyev, Martinovski, Rishnjak, Tereshuk. The announcement is registered in the proper order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u30	Thank you. That's the answer I gave you right now. Dear colleagues, once again, pay attention, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to the announcement of parliamentary requests, statements, statements from factions are given us 45 minutes. We've been with you for 15 minutes. So let's draw conclusions: or less write queries. For which it takes a lot of time or less to speak. Once again, we will be bound to follow what is stated in the Rules. Today, we make decisions about the ratification of treaties and discuss agenda issues. The list of issues that are proposed for consideration and decision-making, you have today, let's get to the point. The question is: a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a Japanese cultural grant for the provision of lighting equipment to the Lviv National Academic Theatre of the Opera and the ballet of the name S. Krušeljnice. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Economy and European Integration Voschevsky Valeriy Mikolayovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is on the ratification of the agreement in the form of an exchange of notes between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a Japanese cultural grant for the provision of lighting equipment to the Lviv State Academy of Opera and the ballet of S. Kršeljnice. The Government of Japan is the only donor of international technical assistance, I stress, the only one that has been implementing projects on a permanent basis since 1997 to modernize Ukrainian cultural and art institutions. The amount of the grant is 423 thousand. United States dollars. With grants, one of Ukraine’s leading cultural institutions will receive the most modern lighting equipment produced in Japan or Ukraine with the mutual consent of the parties on a non-refundable and free basis. Please support the bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Japan on the granting of the Japanese cultural grant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I understand that there are no questions. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to report? For reasons, please, Yavorowski, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u33	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Our Ukraine, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, you are well aware of the situation in which Ukrainian theaters are arriving today. Here we are soon, perhaps even today we will consider the Act on Theatres and Theatre Activities. It's a convenient grant, it doesn't have to be returned, no percentage doesn't belong to Ukraine. So let's vote, yes, that's actually a gift from heaven fell down and we have to vote for it and support the Lviv Opera and Ballet Theatre, it's a beautiful theater, a beautiful collective, and it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, no one's opposed? All in favor. Then we vote in favour of the ratification of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a Japanese cultural grant for the provision of lighting equipment to the Lviv State Academy of Opera and the ballet of S. Kršeljnice. Registration number 0179. Let's be friendly. [[11:03:54]] For 369 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being complied with. Registration number 0165. Reported by Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration Musin Ludmila Abdrachmanovna. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the project "Ukraine - Development through the Internet" is the first investment and innovation project of the World Bank. It is aimed at developing and disseminating new technologies in Ukraine. And most importantly, it's his job to ensure that as many Ukrainian citizens as possible are able to access the Internet. It's a universal knowledge-sharing network. And our people at the level and cities, towns, regions, district centres will be able to access websites, both government structures and worldwide. It's just access to information. We need to understand that not only reform can be at the top level. At the lower level, we will greatly enhance people’s ability to get additional knowledge. In particular, it contains four components, including, for example, a component of an electronic dialogue between government and society. What does that mean? That free, free information centers will be created in a district city, in a circuit city, and in a village. They're going to have a high-level exchange over the Internet, and people can just come in, apply or file a complaint to a ministry or something. And it's all free with the operator. And these projects will be developed in two pilot areas and then distributed to all of Ukraine. Another component, for example, is the automation of purchases. It will also help because processes will be transparent, and fewer people will be able to influence procurement, or competitiveness. Most importantly, what I would like to pay attention to is that the project does not provide any preferences to foreign consulting firms. That is to say, tenders will be made, announcements will be posted at the Ministry of Economics on the site, in the publisher of government purchases. A representative of the Supreme Council will be on the Supervisory Board of this project and will be, we already have an agreement with the Committees of the Supreme Council that all the results of the competitions will be passed on to the Supreme Council to control who will take part and who will implement the project. So I think we can't just give up such cheap funds to push the process of these technologies in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Will there be questions? Yes. Please sign up. Give me three minutes. Please, Gornik, follow him, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u37	Dear reporter, the point is, I've actually read the terms of this loan and they're quite convenient, but there's a question. In principle, we have a lot of computerization problems in Ukraine, automation of processes that need a more urgent solution, I mean, computerization of education, and even computerization of local budget services, where there are very difficult problems, and they are very difficult to solve. Why did the Cabinet of Ministers stop at this particular project instead of considering using these funds to implement the projects I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. The point is that the computerization of the same treasury, and the computerization of education as an opportunity to access the Internet, to this network, is also foreseen here in a component called Electronic Documentation. So it's also going to be provided, just to introduce technologies like, say, state-level treasury, at the regional level, how they're going to exchange information, and to provide access to that information. So this is also part of the project. I also have to say that the National Computerization Program, the Information Programme, is unfortunately very limited in costs. I can tell you that the National Information Program for this year provides 7.7 million dollars. It's very small. And so in the past few years, the component that applied to the computerization of schools was simply not done. Today, we have an estimate of 2003: only a third of schools are computerized, and only a fourth are in rural areas. But just having a computer and playing it or using it as a typewriter, you simply need to have the computer and the ability to store knowledge from there. And this is the most important task of this project, which is to connect all these computers at different levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u39	Nicolanca gives Lucenka the word. Lucenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u40	Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. Last time the Supreme Council session considered the bill, it was said that up to 90 percent of the funds went to finance foreign advisers on the issue. Our faction is willing to vote in favour of this bill if the money goes to real computerization. If it's just a waste of money that's going to have to be spent at a consultation of foreign experts, it's considered useless. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I'd like to explain. This is page 12 of the World Bank-Ukraine Loan Agreement. It's a standard page that defines how money is used. And it says here that if foreign advisors are invited, the World Bank finances 100 percent of the funds. If a tender is won by local advisors or firms, the bank only finances 80 percent of the VAT, because the bank cannot pay taxes in Ukraine for Ukrainian firms, i.e. VAT is provided in the Ukrainian part. And that's all that was meant here. But whoever wins, this is determined by the tender commission, which will also include the representatives of the Supreme Council. And we certainly will not give any preference to foreigners, so in Ukraine we already have enough businesses, companies that are able to implement this computerization themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Have a seat, please. As reported by Osik’s deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Sergey Grigorovich. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u43	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, in fact, were already presented with details and positive aspects of this loan. I want to say that this bill has already been considered at the address of the Head of the President's Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers, we are discussing it for the second time. The terms of this standard loan to the premium, this is about 2.5 percent of the premium period a year, that is, without annuals is 5 years. An additional million are included in the budget, but this is mainly for the payment of tax liabilities arising from the purchase of equipment. The main purpose of this loan is to create Internet networks in public administration systems so that electronic technologies can become more active in our managers. So the committee supported the bill the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u44	Thank you. Questions. Are they desirable? Let's sign up. Yes, please explain. Three minutes. Carmazine. He's behind him, Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u45	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, please tell me what has changed since the project or any warning when the Supreme Council has rejected and the project is being implemented again in this session. This is contrary to the Rules. Second, those. And the goal of what is being spent is going to be this cost, that they have to be budgeted too, and they have to be given these are going to be $5 million -- that's 26 million dollars today, that's a small amount of money. And in order to ensure what is actually being done, including an electronic dialogue between government and society. The President's administration has already issued us an e-mail of the President's decrees, the truth is some of them are two days late. But it must be said that despite my political opponent, Medvedchuk began to do so. And we don't even have access to our own orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. In fact, you have a number of questions. The first thing that changed, I can tell you that nothing changed in the text and couldn't change, you see, as a highly qualified lawyer. Just the Conciliation Board made a decision to consider it again. With regard to goal and return. The loan itself is small enough, so if he approves it won't solve all the problems of informing the government system, including the Supreme Council, that's understandable. And as for the return, the usual term here is 20 years from now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u47	Please, Bulba. He's got Belarus on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u48	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine And yet, Yuri Lucenko was asking questions about where would these loan costs go? If computerization really needs them, and if they're counsellors, is it wise to borrow more now, then to be guilty so that you don't know where to get them in order to give them back. I think you should know this data. Please say it clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u49	Thank you. I'm going to try to answer clearly. The vast number of these funds is foreseen by the text of the agreement for the creation of information networks for government management systems. There are some small costs that are traditionally allocated to experts under the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development standard loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u50	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u51	Dear reporter, there is a natural, legitimate question in the National Deputies: Why is such a meager part of this cost, why does such a meager part go to what is called iron, hardware, computers, and so vast a consultant? [[Please open me up so I can see! Sit down, please!]] That's the first question. The other one. How about information security, if we're going to have consultants on this Internet network, do we have a system for government? And the third. Pinzenik spoke of a huge budget reserve of billions. So far, we're going to be 26 million. For the internetization of the country. And why we start with the government, not the school, the university.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor, for your complex questions. Maybe I'll try the last one. If this is about informationing schools, it's, you know, a separate line of the budget, it's not going to work, actually, this loan. And that's not the subject of discussion right now. When it comes to information, in fact, state-run systems, it's a normal thing to do, and that's what we need to do, so that we can still go to modern levels of electronic governance. I don't see much money in this loan for experts. Moreover, this loan, unlike others, provides for most of the costs of involving national experts, national companies, and developing them in interaction with government authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, are there willing to share in the discussion? Please, Karmazin. Sit down, Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u54	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the citizens of Ukraine, the Honourable Lady Deputy Minister. I would like to point out that, contrary to the Rules, the Conciliation Council passed this bill in the same session. No one had that right. The rules haven't changed. I'm paying attention to that and the presiding officer. It is impossible to accept this bill for a number of reasons. First. It has been pointed out today by MPs that the cost of the project is $5 million or 26 million at today’s rate, and for them it would be possible to computerize most of Ukraine’s universities and lock most of them in the system. It's obvious. But that is not the goal and the budget of our nation is unforeseeable. Instead, it is envisaged that the process of making decisions in the field of public procurement will be more effective. What is it difficult to publish on the Internet now and put out a package of solicitation documentation, not to sell it through different firms just on the basis that their owners patented the method of filling out the solicitation documentation that is made up of the law, and also to allow all those who want to participate in the tenders to receive an e-mail address that they leave on the e-mail page of the public authority a notice of a tender for the purchase of the public funds of the product in that group that is interested in that person? That's easy. The other thing is that this will dramatically reduce the cost of a tender and not allow some to make money, but the people of Ukraine will win, because they're going to buy a product that's going to cost a lot cheaper. And then we had a bill to support a firm that patented samples of the solicitation documents that required only those people to buy them. Ladies and gentlemen, we could transfer the state-funded “Legislative” database to courts and public authorities free of charge so that they don't spend public funds on buying private firms. I'd like to ask the head of the Chambers of Auditors, Valentin Simonek, to consider this a parliamentary request, to check how the funds spent by the State Court to purchase these databases for the courts instead of taking them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is also true of Kabmin, ministries and departments. It's an electronic government program. We are going to develop and implement a working model of state electronic purchases and electronics, that is, documentation, in order to increase efficiency and transparency of government activities, we already have. And this process, which is restricted to MPs, I stress, is restricted to MPs today. Next. Other problems. We've long had the sphere and the profit of information technology. I think that this project should be rejected and not charged to the State budget of Ukraine, because these funds are neither predictable nor established. Let's look at the Budget Code, and it clearly says that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u55	Who else wants to speak? There's no more. Then we'll determine. Puts the vote to the vote. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Adam Ivanovich, if you please, from the government I would like to turn to the distinguished national deputies. This bill is a huge request for support. Since the price of this issue is high, government purchases of 35 billion dollars are made each year, for example. The technical provision of this process at the district level, at the district level like this, I would add, at the 13th year level, a pencil and paper -- and that's it. International experience shows that the introduction of new technologies into this field alone gives the economy 20 percent minimum. So an extremely lucrative loan -- 20 years, it's going to pay off by about the fourth year. The liberal interest rate is plus two percent. The International Bank’s outstanding loan. A great request to support. And no foreign consultants are involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u56	Yes, dear colleagues, I am voting on the law on the ratification of the loan agreement, the project of Ukraine "Development through the Internet" between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development", the registration number of Bill 0165. Please vote. [[11:24:50]] For 185 The factions. Our Ukraine is 65, the Ukrainian regions are 0, the Communists are 0, the Labour Party is 34, the Social Democrats are 29, the People's Government is 0, the DPO is 0, the DMO is 19, the Timoshenko Block is 0, the Agrarian Party is 14, the People's Choice is 7, the NDP is 13, the Postfaction is 4. We're working on it. He's listening. Well, you can't put it on first reading because it's either accepted or not accepted, but we can't change anything there, either ratify the law or not ratify it. In view of this request and the Cabinet of Ministers and the President, I would ask the government to work with the factions that, well, they do. Yes, which are governing, let them determine the fate of this bill. The draft law on the ratification of a memorandum of understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the headquarters of the Chief of Staff of the United NATO Armed Forces in the Atlantic and the headquarters of the Chief of Staff of the United Nations Armed Forces in Europe to provide support for NATO operations by Ukraine, registration number O128. Reported Deputy Defence Minister Igor Volodymyrovich Timothy. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! A memorandum of understanding was signed in Kiev on 9 July 2002 between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the headquarters of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the United NATO Armed Forces in the Atlantic and the headquarters of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the NATO Armed Forces in Europe to ensure support for the NATO operation by Ukraine. When considering the ratification of the said memorandum, they would like to take into account the following, a whole series of political, legal, institutional and economic factors. As far as the political argument for the ratification of the memorandum is concerned. The ratification and use of the provisions of the said memorandum is, in our view, certainly an important issue in the general context of the Euro-Atlantic integration of the State, as such activities effectively contribute to the further development and deepening of the mechanisms of practical cooperation between Ukraine and the Alliance. In addition, the ratification and implementation of the memorandum requirements is one of the key provisions of the 2003 “Ukraine-NATO” target plan. One of the main legal arguments in favour of the memorandum, I would like to emphasise this, is that the ratification of the memorandum does not in any way conflict with the order of admission and the conditions of residence of the branches of foreign states in the territory of Ukraine, which are defined by the provisions of the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Allowance and Conditions of Circumstances". I would like, honourable national deputies, to draw attention to this very argument, since the prescribed memorandum will be implemented only after the Supreme Council has taken a decision on the admission to Ukraine of foreign military units if such a decision is taken. In addition, the memorandum will serve as a framework agreement that will allow for a substantial improvement and order of the process of processing a list of practical issues and a range of aspects. The memorandum stems logically from already valid, adopted, including ratified by the Supreme Council of International Treaties and Legislative Acts of the State. In terms of organizational and practical reasoning, it should be noted that the memorandum regulates a number of international measures of different significance and complexity, especially those relating to the preparation and conduct of multinational teachings. The implementation of the memorandum foresees the arrival of financial resources in Ukraine’s budget. Example: During 2002-2003, about two million dollars were received from multinational education. Thus, the memorandum was discussed on European integration committees, foreign affairs, defence and security issues and was supported. Here's a suggestion: To support the ratification of this memo. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u58	Thank you. Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. School. After him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Your Honor, I have two questions. In the first place, I would like to make it clear, in the context of the funds made at the Yavorov region, that the situation that happened around the diseases that took place after the training. And so far, the painting is still not clear. And the second question is, it's already touching the other one. Now we have the Ukrainian Army -- how many are there? - 30,000, I think, or 15,000, I've already forgotten after the cut. Ukraine is on its way to NATO. And frankly, there's no other alternative, either there's an army or there's just not going to be an army. Because Ukraine has the opportunity to support 600,000 police personnel, and it cannot support its own army. So I'm wondering if Ukraine is ready for full cooperation, because there's got to be one percent of the population of the army that's required by NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. The answer is that the agreed memorandum in the event of its ratification and entry into force will determine the actions of the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the country that is invited with regard to the introduction of a number of practical issues, including jurisdiction issues, the distribution of powers between the State. and representatives of foreign troops. Financial and tax issues, environmental issues, health, safety, etc. Thus, the introduction of a memorandum will allow for a more practical solution to all questions. In answer to the second question, I would like to point out that the introduction of the memorandum is precisely about the intentions of Ukraine’s becoming a practical platform of cooperation at various measures, including international learning and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u61	Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u62	Your Honor, General! Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Here's a little bit of a jump in my constituency, I just want to make a few details. Of course, I'm going to vote for this ratification because it brings Ukraine closer to the Nativity standards and I'm going to say right away that if we were to meet these standards, we would never get the kids sick in Verblain, in Kotah and in others. I have a specific question for you as Deputy Minister. Do we need the scales of the giant ranges like Yavorowski? The second question. Why do we not exhibit environmental damage when we sign agreements when we pass this polygon? Question three. Do you support the idea that there should still be some kind of sanitary area between the populated areas and the border of this polygon? Let's say the same village of Verbljana is literally 50 meters from the polygon. Is this going to continue, or are you still trying to solve this problem somehow?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u63	Thank you. First of all, I'm not a general, I'm a civilian. In answer to questions, I would like to say that according to current estimates for today's needs, the Ukrainian Armed Forces really need a range of organizational and practical measures, including multi-national training. With regard to the question of the identification of sanitary zones between polygons and populated areas, it is precisely in the memorandum that it is intended to be implemented by individual implementation arrangements, during which it is planned to hold a meeting of experts to prepare them and to identify all necessary for, as the Ukrainian side, first of all, we are concerned about the issues that belong to our interests. So, of course, such questions are not only possible, but they should be resolved when the memorandum is implemented and when it is approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u64	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We've got a reporter from the profile two committees. First, the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Stanislav Telisforovich. Get ready for the hamster.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The memorandum submitted for your consideration was signed in July 2002 in Kiev during a meeting of the "Ukraine-Nato" Commission. The effectiveness of this memorandum does not conflict with the order of admission and the conditions of the presence of foreign forces in Ukraine, as defined by the Ukrainian law on the order of admission and the conditions for the presence of forces of other States in Ukraine. The implementation of the memorandum is carried out by the parties by means of separate financial arrangements. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committees on European Integration, on budgetary issues, are recommending that the Supreme Council ratify the memorandum. The National Security and Defence Committee supports ratification, but with this statement: "Implementation of the terms of the memorandum must be carried out in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the law of Ukraine on the order of admission and conditions for the presence of the forces of other States in Ukraine. On November 12, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council as a law. I would like to inform you that since the meeting of the committee, the Committee has received a letter from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Georgi Korniyovich in the hall, especially the Head of the Assembly, announced that he would also be a co-reporter. He'll give his opinion. The committee is therefore asking to support the ratification of the memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Please sign up. Lighten up. Three minutes. School, after him, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u67	Thank you. The honourable reporter, well, when the work was done on the approval committee, whether the issue of the Yavorov region was raised, because it guarantees the local population that it surrounds, because the problem here is not just one constituency or district, it's a problem of cooperation at all. Because the subject was silent, there was some completely incomprehensible information that it was the flu, then respiratory disease, then fear, then panic there. So this diaper of mystery, it caused a sense of helplessness to the local population during the course of these studies. No one would mind having these teachings there, but we can't turn into a country with colonial status that can come to us and do it all at the lowest level. So, has this question been raised? And your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. I share your concern, but the committee, I inform you, has considered in sufficient detail the memorandum itself and all its articles. Therefore, the specific details, in the timeliness of the Yavorov region, did not take part specifically in the discussion, but all that related to this and the consequences was addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u69	Please, Suhi, follow him, Costinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u70	Thank you. Mr. Stanislaw Telisforovich, I have a question for you as a colleague, a national deputy of Ukraine, not an official, not a minister's official. The disgrace for the world was NATO's aggression against Orthodox Yugoslavia. This disgrace will never be washed away, this stain will forever remain on NATO, and those who have died under bombardment will be civilians. Please tell me this memorandum, in your opinion, does it not mean that in such a case the Ukrainian troops will be involved through, I quote, a memorandum through the provision of technical information and other assistance to NATO military units during their military operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u71	Thank you. The point is, I've divided your question into two stages: to me as a citizen and as a national deputy and as a committee head. As chairman of the committee, I find that the decisions taken by the committee, so commenting on one side or the other may be unfair with regard to the committee members. As for, let's say, the questions that you have here really need those people, the officials who will be responsible for the operation of this law, to make sure that the laws and the Constitution in Ukraine are enforced as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u72	Please, Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u73	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that the ratification of the memorandum will accelerate the processes of European integration, the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine. But Ukraine continues to provide both technical and informational and medical assistance, both during military training and during military operations. This is what will change the principle once this memorandum is ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u74	The fact is that this document regulates the actions of our party, the party of Ukraine. What we need to ensure, how we should do, and how we should act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich, will report. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. As a matter of fact, as a member of the committee, I turned to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in connection with the fact that the committee’s position, our committee, was not accurately explained in the Committee’s submissions. Our committee was very keen and actively discussing this memorandum. And after a heated debate, he concluded that if this memorandum was ratified, it was necessary to make a warning that the memorandum was being implemented under the conditions of compliance with article 85, paragraph 23, of the Constitution of Ukraine and the law of Ukraine, "On the order of admission and conditions of residence in the territory of Ukraine of the forces of the armed forces of other States". What's the matter, dear fellows? The point is that the memorandum, as noted in the introduction to it, is based on the concept of the deployment of NATO forces and united forces under the command and administration of NATO in Ukraine or the crossing of Ukraine's territory in peacetime. The concept of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been considered; it is unknown even to us, members of the National Security and Defence Committee. In the meantime, this is about access to the territory of Ukraine of all, I quote, "all NATO-led forces, including all special warehouses, animals, material, technical and food supplies, along with any civilian component of such forces, all ships, aircraft, transport equipment, warehouses, equipment, ammunition" and so on and so forth. All these forces will be subordinated, not to Ukraine, but to NATO. Ukraine is obliged to provide, quote, support to the forces involved in NATO operations, using all possible means, to provide all necessary support resources, including civilian and, I would stress, commercial resources. The activities of the international headquarters between operations by all NATO forces will be exempt from all taxes, duties, contributions and other similar disputes. If you sum it up, this essentially turns Ukraine into a sub-mandatory NATO territory, and you sign a memorandum like that, you have to disrespect your own country. So as a citizen, as a national MP, I am opposed to ratifying such a memorandum. And I've taken my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u77	Georgi Korniyovich, is there a question? Please sign in. Yes, please explain. Three minutes, Shurma, behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u78	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear George Korniyovich, you have answered this question in part. I'd like to focus on this. According to Ukraine’s general military doctrine, as stated in the Supreme Council Order of October 19, 1993, Ukraine has been declared against the deployment of foreign troops in its territory and in the territories of other nations without consent. However, this memorandum grants the NATO Armed Forces the right of rapid access to Ukraine if necessary for the implementation of the South Atlantic Alliance policy. And it's determined that weapons technology -- airplanes, helicopters, tanks, ships -- can, if necessary, travel across Ukraine on the basis of a general permit. So why don't you make it clear to us that Ukraine is actually going to be giving some kind of assessment or permission to move, or are we just turning into stats? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u79	The memorandum states that Ukraine admits that the movement to and across its territory of aircraft, helicopters, vessels, their crews, commands, quote, “will take place on the basis of a general permit throughout the operation”, i.e. without a special decision, in each particular case, on the admission to Ukraine of troops of other States’ armed forces, and that it will provide all aspects of such a permit, i.e. it can be interpreted as whatever the situation is, since it is not limited to time or space, to the entire territory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u80	Please, the school's behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u81	Dear reporter, please tell us what position the committee was like, because when we were presented with this ratification program, they said that all the committees, the Council's profile, supported it, that's the first. The second question concerns me, as I said before, is that in the given ratification, it still does not limit. As for me, the presence, the high-quality presence of troops at the Javorovské range, there is a representative of Lvivščina, and I cannot forget the disaster that occurred in the settlements surrounding the Javorovský range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u82	Andrew, I've stated that the committee's position has been acutely discussed, the votes have been divided, but the majority of the votes have been taken, and it has been noted, and you have, your colleagues, that the majority of the members of the committee have decided, the committee has decided to support the proposal to submit it to the Supreme Council and to ratify it with such a warning - the implementation of the provisions of the memorandum should be carried out in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the law of Ukraine "On the order of admission and the conditions of residence of the armed forces of other States in the territory of Ukraine". I mean, the solution to these issues should be within the framework of the Constitution and the law -- it was the opinion of most members of the committee. By the way, at a meeting of the government committee, I made such an offer, it was ignored, it was ignored at a government meeting, and, as we can see, we have been given such a law. If we don't make such a warning if this law is ratified, I'm against ratification. If we don't make a warning, NATO can do anything, according to this memorandum. Although there is such a phrase that it does not seem to conflict with Ukrainian legislation. And with regard to the Yavorovian range, well, it's a separate case. You know, there was a lot of talk about this. Well, all state institutions have concluded that the diseases that took place there are not related to the whereabouts and military trainings that took place there. I am not an expert, but experts have concluded that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u83	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear George Korniyovich. I would like to draw my attention, along with the deputies, to the fact that last week, the entire world society has been given a visual lesson in what happens to countries that are blindly following NATO strategies. I mean the terrorist act that took place in Spain. If only the ruling party had paid for it, it was half - priced, but the Spanish people paid for it with their lives. So I'd like to make a two-point proposal. First: of course, the faction supports your initiative to not ratify this document. And secondly, I'm addressing our colleagues with a proposal: let's go back tomorrow to the proposals for the withdrawal of the Ukrainian troops from Iraq. We don't have to wait for the people of Ukraine to pay for the wrong decision made by the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u85	On this point, I can say that there are two draft rulings before our committee today: a decision made by the Communist factions, Simonenko and Alexeyev, and a separate draft decision made by the Turkin people's deputy -- precisely for this reason. The committee will deal with this issue today and, depending on that, will continue to deal with the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u86	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We are not yet voting on the procedure, we will be discussing it. Yeah, 15 minutes to talk. Please, Karmazin. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u87	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Now that you've all become familiar with this so-called international treaty in all of us, it's obvious why the Ukrainian army is shrinking by 100,000 in one year. It is clear to all why new weapons are not purchased for the army. It is obvious to all that people are sitting blameless for their fate, for the fate of our children. Today is no longer about us. I took this book for you, which is called the Constitution of Ukraine. I am proud that part 7 of article 17 of the Constitution states: "In Ukraine, no foreign military bases are allowed." I'm proud of the offer I made to Yuri Carmazin in 1996. Whether it's Russians or Americans, I've been defending Ukraine's national interests. And today I'm ashamed of the authority that signed the so-called memorandum, because it's a national betrayal. I'll prove it to you very soon. I'm reading paragraph 3.7. "NATO operations supported under this memorandum may require multi-national air operations to support a defined number of aircraft and helicopters. And in the case of ports of military and civilian vessels, support is provided. The country that accepts recognizes that the movement to and from the territory of the country that accepts such aircraft, helicopters, vessels and their crews will take place on the basis of a general permit throughout the operation." Your Honor, you know, once you've given permission, how long will it take NATO commander to decide? How long does it take to fly, how long to fly, which port to enter? What are we doing? What are we? But in Sevastopol, read the Constitution, read the Transitional Statutes, and let's get Sevastopol out of it, too. So, your honor, nowhere in this memo is it written that, according to the Constitution, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, these so-called divisions operate. There's something else that we're talking about. Nothing is said about the control and supervision of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, absolutely nowhere. So I thank Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov for correcting it. I'm sorry about what was said today about his committee. I beg you, national deputies, do not do this for any money, do not betray the state, do not ratify this treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u88	Please, Yavorowski, get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Majority District 123 Dear colleagues! We're really upset today, I'd say. On the one hand, who can deny that the Ukrainian army is going to be in pain, there are a lot of huge problems on her head, because from the wreck of the former giant army, it's certainly very difficult, and beyond all else, that, in fact, our army is completely unstarted -- it's the ideology of patriotism, because even Napoleon once said that 80 percent of the combat of any army is his mood, it's his patriotism. It's absolutely impossible to say about our army today, it's poor, it's being reduced. Before me are the relations of yesterday’s government, which has informed us of the beautiful country we live in. And I think if our officers and the homeless sergeants who live in the dormitories today read all of this, they probably didn't find any place alive on this land. And the system of central and local authorities has been completed. An improved system of state leadership in the military sphere is being implemented, a reform and development programme is being developed for the state weapons development programme and so on. Well, it seems like we've been in NATO for a long time and we're in line with Nazi standards. Of course, I've already said and I'll say again, if the Ukrainian army and Ukraine were in NATO, it would never happen, but just take it away from what I said was actually being exploited by international, other foreign armies just by the Yavorov region. [[Georgi Korniyovich, I respect you]] Because of this, it should be our primary point of view today, for one thing when it is used by a number of armies that control each other is not the case. And this time, when Kuchma made a deal there with Berlusconi, two prominent actors of our time, and Italian troops that went through Europe paid each soldier over 2,000. Euro. So I have a question: Why were they so wasted? To blow up old shells on the maple range or to blow up something else? This is why I say again: I understand that there are opponents of Ukraine going to NATO, but of course there is no other way out. But I'm absolutely in solidarity with Karmazin, with Georgi Korniovich, that this version is another cable document. We're in Ukraine, we're pulling up to the east, we're pulling up to the east, we're pulling up to the east, we're pulling up the sleeves, we're pulling up the sleeves, and we're tearing up the arms. We have to figure out where we're going. But that version of that law, it warns me today, because I don't care who walks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u90	Please, School, get Simone ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko's faction, Andrew's school. I'd like to have a discussion here with the previous speaker about that. According to the Constitution, foreign bases are banned in Ukraine. Well, what's written down is a fact, but the fact that there's a foreign base in Sevastopol in Ukraine and there's going to be an infinite time is also a fact. Have we already admitted that Russian troops are no longer foreign. These are foreign troops that are here. And I'm convinced that there's not enough spirit in the present, and we want the future Ukrainian government and the President to have enough spirit in 20 years to force these foreign troops out of Ukraine. Therefore, what is contrary to the Constitution does not mean that it will or will not be fulfilled. What is enshrined in the Constitution is not going to be observed in this State and will require that someone else observe the requirements of our Constitution in that State. Next. You know, in my day, I was either NATO's worst opponent as a phenomenon. I'll tell you what. Ukraine should not have even debated entering or not. Ukraine itself was to form military blocs, Ukraine as the nuclear power it was before 1992, with its third nuclear potential to form a military bloc between the two seas, between the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea. But after the bandits gave up, destroyed and destroyed the nuclear potential, the second successor of the Ukrainian banditry destroyed the army, now the army numbers 120,000 will be after the reformation of the man. That's because 537 thousand militia personnel, we've limited the number of interior ministries in this room, and now we've added a judicial militia, a local militia, some more militia. And we have to prove, I say, let's give the militia two million to make sure we have more militias than in China's army. Then it will be good to eliminate the army. It's such a concept. That's why I'm going out. I just can't see. This will at least give rise to the existence of the Ukrainian army. Now she's living, she doesn't exist, she's living. And this reform of it, well it doesn't make things any better, it can only make the fate of the officers and of the army more difficult. So those warnings that were made by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczko need to be taken and supported or not supported with them, frankly, I don't think that's going to have any effect. We have to conceptually support where Ukraine goes to Russia or NATO. This is the third time, unfortunately, that today’s leaders have not left us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. Instead of Solomon’s word, Simonenko must prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning of my statement, I would like to state that the Communist faction will vote against supporting the ratification of this agreement. And we have a balanced and principled position based on the principles of statehood and development, strengthening our statehood, not destruction. Where do we come from, Communists? First, if this is a memorandum, then what is an act of unconditional surrender? I would consider that we are ratifying the act of unconditional surrender today. Because Ukraine, at the initiative of those 12 years of age who have led to poverty and practically destroyed the country, is today attempting to lose the main institution of statehood, protection of the country's security and development through the adoption and ratification of the memorandum. In this situation, we must bear in mind that the loss of defence and the transfer of the Armed Forces under the command of the NATO Commander-in-Chief is in fact the transfer of Ukraine's interests to the control of those who carry out their strategic tasks through the NATO bloc. It seems to me that we must be extremely considerate, distinguished colleagues, who have doubts about this memorandum. Look, all that was a promise-tapping thing for our Ukraine, I'm particularly addressing the right-wing nationalist forces represented here in the Supreme Council by "nassists." When nuclear weapons were removed and exported, this led to Ukraine’s loss of practical, say, power and authority in the world. When forced for promises to destroy our strategic missile complex, today in Pavlovgrad and, by the way, eat and apologize, get on your knees before the Pavlovgrad residents and apologize for what we have in Ukraine today is the second chemical Chernobyl. It's all yours. Next. I'd like to pay attention to all the entrepreneurs who do business. Ukraine cannot today by the naval forces ensure the safety of our merchant fleet. As soon as the ship arrived, he was arrested and in debt. What is this State where the courts are taken away? That is why, dear fellows, I would like to draw your attention to Yugoslavia and Iraq as a result of this free policy. We cannot vote in favour of ratifying the memorandum, but we must immediately vote on what the communists have asked for and propose that tomorrow we vote and withdraw our troops from Iraq so that Ukraine is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u94	Yes, please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u95	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Instead of taking urgent action to get the country out of the crisis, preventing the extinction of our poor reformers, one concern is to preserve their perceived prestige. What prestige can be discussed if Ukraine has gone to one of the last places at the level of life of the population for 13 years free and, to say the latter, the criminal policy of the Kravchukov-Kuchmo regime. Let us remember and follow these stages of the descent of Ukraine to one of the last places. The first phase is a complete gap in economic relations with Russia. The second phase is unilateral disarmament, the barbaric destruction of strategic aviation, the elimination of the country's nuclear capabilities, in which nuclear warheads of strategic use were exported to Russia and tactical warheads from the country. It's been said that a child was molded with foam. This was the only deterrent to possible outside aggression with a minimum optimum army size. And the responsibility for this short-sighted criminal step towards the elimination of the nuclear shield must, of course, be taken by Kravchuk. In its time of declaring the country's neutrality policy, it is now acting with accuracy to the contrary, actively supporting Kuchma's policy of involving Ukraine in NATO. Today's debate is one of the elements of Ukraine's progress towards NATO under clear pressure from the United States of America. Among other things, before ratifying a document, it is important to think and clearly imagine what it will do and to whom it will benefit. It is likely that our country will be adopted, as Mr. Jackson put it, into NATO in 2006. They will accept whatever it is: with a corrupt economy, a backward economy, a demoralized people, weakened by the Armed Forces, because joining us in NATO is a direct approach to Russia's borders, they need this space. The Americans set out to do their utmost to turn Ukraine away from Russia forever and to build such a wall that will no longer be possible. In this regard, the vote in favour of ratifying the law on the memorandum should be open, i.e. whoever votes in favour would take on greater responsibility and the people should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u96	We have all the votes open, I remind both the deputies and our listeners, so we'll know who's voting. The question is closed. For reasons of vote, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u97	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for the opportunity to comment on the procedure. As we can see, there are two points of view: one point of view expressed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which means ratifying without any conditions, and another point of view is ratifying with caution according to the Constitution and the international treaties of Ukraine. So, Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to put these two proposals to the vote, including the National Security and Defence Committee's proposal to ratify with caution and send this document to the executive structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u98	There is no such proposal on the committee to send for work. It's not there, and we can't go to work. Please, Deputy Minister Timothy. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, allow me to express my sincere appreciation for the strict and considerate treatment of the document. I want to say that we are fully aware of the complexity of the issue, first of all from a political point of view. But before the vote, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, from a legal point of view, if ratified, this document will only take effect after the decision to admit foreign military units to Ukraine will be taken by the Supreme Council only from this point of view. Thank you for your attention again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we will be determined. The Act on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Headquarters of the Chief of Staff of the United NATO Armed Forces in the Atlantic and the Headquarters of the Chief of Staff of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe on the provision of support for NATO operations by Ukraine, registration number 0128. [[12:09:03]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions. "Our Ukraine" is 90, "The Regions of Ukraine" is 24, "The Communists" is 0, "The Hard Ukraine", "The Industrialists" is 27, "The Social Democrats" is 29, "The People's Government" is 14, "The Socialists" is 0, "Deminitiates" is 13, "The Block of Timoshenko" is 0, "The Agrarian Party is 12, "The People's Choice" is 14, "The People's Choice" is 12, "The People's Choice" -3. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Dear colleagues, well, just a minute: maybe we're just another deal, right? 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, especially those in the towers, please take up jobs. We're continuing our morning session. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Executive Authority of Georgia on the reception and transfer of persons who are in the territory of States illegally. [[readmission]] First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Mikhailo Vasilovich Kornienko, reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Executive Authority of Georgia on the reception and transfer of persons who are in the territory of States illegally. [[readmission]] This agreement was signed on April 22, last year in Kiev. In accordance with paragraph 2 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, paragraph 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of Ukraine provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The international level of the agreement will allow for the simplification and acceleration of cooperation in the area of combating illegal migration, the expansion of the number of entities responsible for the implementation of the agreement, as well as a basis for more effective cooperation in the fight against illegal migration. The contract is not affected. There is no reason for the State to intervene in its internal affairs. It does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine. Its creation and implementation will not lead to the adoption of new laws and amendments to the regulations of Ukraine. The implementation of the agreement will help create the right legal conditions for effective cooperation between Ukraine and Georgia in the area of combating illegal migration. It has no political coloring and will serve practical purposes to combat this type of organized crime. By the way, honourable national MPs, only during the past year, have they been discovered in the territory of our state and have been forced into force by 13,000 foreigners who have violated Ukrainian legislation, and they from 180 states of the world, some 1 000 of whom were citizens of Georgia, almost 10 percent. The implementation of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Executive Authority of Georgia on the reception and transfer of persons who are in the territory of States illegally will be provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the State Border Service of Ukraine. [[readmission]] Please support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss, ask questions? Vote. We vote on the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Executive Authority of Georgia on the reception and transfer of persons who are in the territory of States illegally. [[readmission]] [[Registration number 0141]] Please be supportive. [[12:46:08]] For 305 Act adopted. Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the regulation of the process of migration and protection of the rights of migrants and their families is being complied with. [[Registration number 0170]] Reported to Victor Mikolaiovich Voronin, the first deputy head of the National Committee on Nationality Migration. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the regulation and protection of the rights of migrants and their families is important for improving the system of Ukrainian migration legislation. The agreement is aimed at ensuring that Ukrainian citizens and individuals who have the right to acquire Ukrainian citizenship are permanently residing in Belarus and have the right to move to Ukraine, as well as to Belarusian citizens who live in Ukraine and who wish to move to Belarus. I want to remind you that there are now 237,000 ethnic Ukrainians in Belarus, some of whom are in the area of radiation infection. The purpose of the agreement is to determine the order and conditions of the movement of persons from Belarus and Ukraine and vice versa, as well as the mutual obligations of States to facilitate migration. The subject of the legal regulation of the agreement is the determination of the legal principles of the relocation process. First of all, the creation of an effective mechanism for managing the state-designated process and protecting the rights of displaced persons. The agreement contains the definition of basic terms, determining the number of persons in which the arrangement is extended. as well as the social, property and social rights of displaced persons. In particular, it should be emphasized that the implementation of the agreement does not require any additional financial costs. The implementation of the terms of the agreement will enable the process of moving persons from Ukraine to the Republic of Belarus and vice versa at the interstate level, as well as to predict migration flows to some extent. We ask the Supreme Council to support the ratification of the treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u105	Thank you. Is that clear? Shall we vote? We are voting on the law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the regulation of the process of migration and the protection of the rights of migrants and their families. Registration number 0170. Please vote. [[12:48:44]] For 297 The law is passed, thank you. In line with our order of work today, we move on to the following questions. We have two important questions. You know, today is just a morning session, so I'm asking you to mobilize and we'll work until we discuss these two laws in accordance with the Rules. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Registration number 2047-d. Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovitch. On a temporary special committee, we decided on what we would do in accordance with the Rules: to consider each and every one of these and the next 45 minutes. Report, please 10 minutes. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, you and I are now to consider one of the very responsible electoral laws of Ukraine. Elections in any state that wants to be democratic are a key element of democracy, provided that this state is not disguised as democratic and that elections are indeed real. That's why we think that the consideration of this bill is the result of this complex struggle, which has taken place both here in the walls of the Supreme Council and in the society for the preservation of the right of the people directly in the national elections to elect the President of Ukraine. The bill that you are offered for consideration today is a product of long and hard work. The hard work, in a direct sense, since the working group was formed by a temporary special commission, worked intensely and for a long time. And the hard part is that it's compromised, it's formed on the basis of agreements and the achievement of agreed positions by representatives of various political forces, different factions and groups represented in the Supreme Council, as well as bodies outside the Supreme Council. What are the basic positions in this bill? Well, first of all, we came to understand that since the two bills introduced to the Supreme Council were based: one by the people's deputies Klukkowski, Katerinczuk, and the other by the people's deputies Rudzikowski, Ponomarenko and Kadenuk, were based on these two bills, as well as the valid Law on the Elections of the President of Ukraine. That's why the chosen form of changes to the current law, by putting it in a new edition. Next. As for the nomination of candidates, we agreed that we should provide two mechanisms of expulsion: as through parties and blocks, there are no restrictions on parties and blocks being able to raise a non-party candidate, and the other mechanism being self-regulatory. The next position is that the registration of candidates nominated in whatever way takes place immediately after the submission of the relevant documents to the Central Electoral Commission and the introduction of a monetary pledge. The size of the monetary bond is agreed upon in the amount of $500,000. However, the collection of signatures as a procedure has been preserved, but its contents have changed somewhat. The signatures are not for registration but for registration support. This means that after the candidate has been registered for a certain period of time. However, if the corresponding number of signatures are not submitted to the Central Electoral Commission forty days before the election day, the registration of the candidate shall be cancelled. Next. As far as commission formation is concerned. A position has been taken to ensure that each candidate, regardless of the subject’s promotion and method of removal, is represented on all election committees except, of course, Central, which is formed on other grounds. At the same time, we realized that there was some danger of losing the electoral boards' performance after the first round when many candidates were being cut off, there were only two remaining. Therefore, the bill provides for mechanisms that ensure the electoral commission’s effectiveness between the first and second rounds of elections. Many discussions raised a problem with the candidate’s election fund. It is proposed that the electoral fund be limited to a sum equivalent to 10 million dollars, although the bill has a minimum wage. At the same time, it is considered that additional costs are needed when the candidate for re-voting on the second round. In this regard, it provides, firstly, an increase in the electoral fund's electoral size to an amount equivalent to three million dollars, as well as the provision of state funding for pre-election agitation to both candidates at that time, again, by three million dollars per candidate. We consider the introduction of a form of teledebate to be a specific regulation of pre-election agitation. They may be held both before the first round of voting and for the two candidates who are included in the re-voting ballot. However, taking into account the right of each candidate to choose the forms of agitation that make it possible for him to participate in television debates, that is, to remain voluntary. The next position is to increase democracy and transparency of all procedures, electoral procedures themselves, and appropriate mechanisms to protect against violations of electoral rights, to violate the rule of law, and to protect the legitimate interests of electoral subjects. Appropriate procedures are described in detail. And I would like to stress that the bill provides for the right to appeal the court's rulings on election disputes. I would like to remind you that the issue of the finality of the trial of the first instance was very acute during the last election. And a number of judicial decisions can be viewed as imperfect for some reason. However, such decisions could not have been challenged and the judge, even in the case of an unjust decision, could not have been held accountable, since the appeal to responsibility would have been premeditated. The right to appeal now allows the courts to influence unjust decisions and to seek redress. Of course, these can't be the general terms of an appeal, they're very short-circuited -- two days from the date of the first instance court decision, taking into account the rapidity of the electoral process. I've already mentioned that the working group has worked very hard and quite in such difficult conditions, so unfortunately some technical malfunctions have been stolen into the text of the bill, and since the draft of the bill we have discovered them, and I want to point out for the protocol that technical editorial changes will be made in the 23rd article part three after your consent, in the 24th article part seven, and in the 28th article in part nine and ten. Changes of purely editorial character. In two cases, two words are removed, and in the second sentence, the sentence is moved from part nine to part ten. In summary, I would like to say that this bill, if approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, could be a serious legislative basis for ensuring the transparent and democratic character of the elections of the President of Ukraine to take place in the autumn of this year. But what I want to stress is that it's only a legislative basis. No law can guarantee this if its application does not meet the requirements of Ukraine’s Constitution and legislation. Therefore, I hope that if this bill is approved and the practice of elections and the actions of both the authorities and the electoral bodies will be carried out in compliance with the laws of Ukraine and the principles of fair, open and democratic elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u107	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich, for the economy of time. Any questions? Sign up. I thought we'd be able to rest Yuri Bogdanovich, really, the working group worked pretty hard. Well, well. We'll be in pain for five more minutes. Please explain. Dry after him, Phydenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich, please tell me three short questions, and I think they need three short answers from you. First, why doesn't the copyright team from which you present this bill pass an old presidential election law in 1999? It's the same, in detail, detailed, detailed. The second question, the universal election of the President of Ukraine, is your position, your faction, I'm joining it, is the position that I think is shared by most of the session room, but please tell me, what does it look like when you're offered permission to put a candidate to the Presidents of Ukraine through parties and blocks of interest? Is it not a threat that such a president will defend the interests of a party or a bloc instead of a nation? And third, it's a very important question for me. You are co-author of the Law on the Election of National Deputies on a Party and on a Proportional basis, you have, at the same time, renounced and voted for this law. What is your personal attitude toward the bill that you now report? Are you going to vote for him?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u109	Thank you so much for the questions, especially for the third. And I'd love to have all three answers. First of all, the law is valid, as you can see, not just for me, but for the whole group of co-authors. And I hope that the composition of a group of legislators on this bill shows that this is the general agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all factions and groups represented in the Supreme Council. I disagree with your assessment that the law in force is as detailed. I would like to remind you that in order to fill the gaps in this law, the Central Election Commission in 1999 was forced to issue one and a half hundred decrees that settled issues that were not regulated by law. However, article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine requires that the conduct, organization and conduct of elections be governed solely by laws. With regard to the second question: regarding national elections. I think you'll recall that the faction that I have the honour to represent did not take part in the so-called February 3rd vote when this issue was resolved for you and for us and for the people it was resolved long and forever. In this regard, I would like to remind you that today there is no known candidate for the election of the President of Ukraine this year, who would not be behind the backs of the support of a political party or another. Part of them are members of political parties. I think there's nothing wrong with political parties putting out candidates, but I think it would be very wrong to repeat the practice of the President implementing politics in the interests of a particular party. And I think you and I know a situation where it's in practice. For me, of course, a much more questionable mechanism is self-determination, because I don't really understand what a citizen's desire is to become president without the support of a serious political power. So just if you were to go against the self-registration mechanism of the Presidents, I think it would be more consistent. Finally, my personal position. I want to say again that I have been able to speak to the media more than once. I do not accept the work of the Supreme Council when a serious bill becomes a means of payment to achieve completely different goals. I consider it an act of political corruption, an immoral step, and therefore I will never take part in such games alone and never take part. With regard to this bill, the situation is quite different. It aims to ensure that the President's democratic, transparent and honest elections are held this year. And that's why I don't see any reason why I shouldn't be able to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u110	Thank you. I'd ask those who ask questions to ask one question at a time, because, you see, we've been eating for answers all the time. Please, Phydenka. After him, Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u111	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, one question. We remember well how the President’s previous election took place. The entire Cabinet of Ministers, all heads of administration, all members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are on their feet, and they're all helping to run for office. Tell me, please, how did you manage to write something in a new and more serious way than in the previous draft on how to assign administrative resources, its influence, the illegal influence on the running of elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u112	Thank you. I want to point out that the use of administrative resources is not only a problem of legislation but also of illegal practice. This bill is much clearer than the law provides for the prohibition of unauthorized unlawful interference by executive authorities and local authorities, their officials and officials, the authorization of election committees and the electoral process. Yet the law was to be prohibited. This rule of law needs to be kept in practice. This is already the problem of the collective will of all the subjects of the electoral process. As long as some subjects count on such support, others will find it very difficult to resist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u113	Please, Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u114	Your Honor, I have a question: is the term 120 days calculated at all, or is it related to a particular real situation? If you count it, the nomination of candidates to the Presidents will be at a time when the entire Parliament will be on vacation. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u115	Well, first of all, I'll start at the end. I think this has nothing to do with what happens in Parliament. Worse yet, most people in Ukraine are also on vacation. So the term 120 days was a compromising term. And there was a great desire on the part of the majority to reduce the duration of the election process of the President of Ukraine. I would not personally object to saving 180 days. Yet, that was the will. And this is one of the elements of compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich, here was very worried about Dragnibok for his questions. Tell me about the boxes they'll be, the ballot boxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u117	The point is that the material from which election boxes are made needs to be carefully selected. Not enough for him to be there transparent or opaque, he must be hard enough, not break easily, not be fragile, not breakable. He must be fireproof so that his cigarette cannot be melted, and he must be light so that these boxes can be carried from one place to another by the members of the commission. So we decided that this problem could be solved by the Central Electoral Commission, which would directly indicate the material from which the boxes would be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u118	From transparent material.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u119	That's not exactly what we were talking about. This is a question that needs to be resolved in the working order by the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u120	Yes, have a seat, please. On behalf of the temporary special commission, co - head Gabriels Stepan Bogdanovich reports. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u121	Honourable Chief, Honorary Colleagues, to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on certain measures for legislative enforcement of constitutional reform in Ukraine and
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u122	As of March 3, 2004, the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the drafting of draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine prepared a harmonized draft on the election of the President of Ukraine based on two major projects implemented by the People's Deputies, Klukkowski and Rudzkowski. According to this decree, the Temporary Special Commission is recognized as the main contributor to these bills. It acted democraticly enough, in accordance with the Rules, by agreeing to all positions by voting. In the beginning, the Temporary Special Commission decided to adopt a concept that was built out of the main 14 points, which it commissioned and defined for a working group that was created by the Temporary Special Commission, based on this concept, and to build a bill that had just reported to my colleague Yuri Bogdanovich Klukowski. This concept was presented in Yuri Bogdanovich's speech, and I will not go back to it, but I will say that it was intended to build the most consensus base in order for the Ukrainian President's Election Bill to become some standard for the democratic process of the President's election in 2004. In fact, and yesterday, at the meeting of the Temporary Special Commission, we again voted on the main conceptual issues, especially those related to the position of the working group and, for example, increased the election fund for the presidential candidate, which, according to the first round, went on to the second round, where 3 million went from the state budget to the corresponding campaign of the presidential candidate, and 3 million such candidates could participate in their own political position and position. This is about two candidates who are going on the second round of President of Ukraine's election. We have to say that the Presidential Election Act is made up of two parts. The first part proclaims the basic principles and principles on which the President's electoral legislation is to be built, and the second part is the basis of procedural, technological, regulation, all electoral processes, which constitute the electoral process itself. We have to say that this second part is written in as much detail as possible. It can be called formal enough, since literally all the details of the historical practice of the election of the President of Ukraine and the major discussions that have taken place in recent times on transparency, the openness of such elections, have been implemented in sufficiently large standards that determine the procedure for elections. There are articles that include about 20 different parts that scrupulously describe steps by step all possible questions about the organization of the President’s election. The well - prepared drafting of the bill places considerable emphasis on improving the procedure for accusing decisions that Yuri Bogdanovitch spoke about today, the actions or inaction of the subjects of the electoral process. The main objective pursued by the temporary special commission is to unify Ukrainian electoral legislation, especially the procedural part, the only order in which electoral committees are formed. I would like to say that the three bills that we will be considering in the session room are the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the Law on Elections of People's Deputies of Ukraine and the Law on Elections of Local Councils and Elections of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime are unified in procedural rules. Therefore, it seems to us that the temporary special commission, in completing its work, has achieved the main objective, that the positions of this bill are of a consensual nature. Thus, we can argue that the main political forces of Parliament have taken part in its development. And the basic positions that we've written down in this bill are either broad compromise or consensus. Therefore, there is good reason to say that tomorrow in the session room it can be voted not only by taking it as a basis in the first reading but also in general as a law. The temporary special commission recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine do so. Tomorrow, during the vote, the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act was passed as a law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. Have a seat, please. We have a temporary special committee. Stepan Bogdanovich, they want to ask you. Please sign in. Lighten up. Three minutes. Melnik, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u124	I beg you to give John Boko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u125	Boko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u126	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you what I wanted to ask your predecessor, the lead reporter. It is possible that in these elections, a citizen of Israel and Ukraine will be nominated for the post of President of Ukraine. Although I understand that we are not allowed to have dual citizenship, I doubt that Rabinovich will be able to collect our signatures for the benefit of the law. Would he be allowed to collect such signatures in Israel?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u127	I might not answer that question because it does not apply to the Electoral Law. But I'll say that the proposed legislation gives the right to nominate a representative of any national minority if he is a citizen of Ukraine and resides in Ukraine for ten years. I wouldn't want us to disrespect any representative of Ukraine's national minority in our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u128	Please, Roadside. He's behind him, Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u129	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, I'd like to hear your assessment of the procedure for forming or forming election committees. Because it is clear that the most difficult issue in the process of working on this bill was the formation of electoral and, among other things, district, and so on. What do you think, from your experience, that mechanism that the working group and the temporary special commission have offered, it meets the standards and will ensure that transparency? Your point of view and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u130	Thank you. This question was already raised by Yuri Bogdanovich. All I'm going to say is that the main task in forming election committees was that administrative resources had been removed from these committees and they had been created on a proportional basis with regard to the position of the subjects of the electoral process, and they were the main subjects of the election commission. So it seems to me that there is a maximum democratic principle here that allows us to form a system of elections solely based on the position of the subjects of the electoral process, based on the standards of this law, the standards of this law and maximizing the democratic transparent process of the elections of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u131	Please, Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, Our Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, I have previously passed a bill on amendments and additions to certain laws on the organization of voting -- this also applies to the President's Elections Act. [[for transparent boxes]] We know that since we, as a Ukrainian state, want to go to a European civilized country, we have to make it impossible to fake various elections. Unfortunately, in our country, such forgeries are being carried out and will be carried out, and yet we, as legislators, have to do everything we can to prevent these falsifications. I'd like to ask your opinion. Is it worth the effort to set this standard? This rule is now proposed in this Presidential Election Act, but I have only proposed a broader and more detailed description in this draft law, which proposed the mechanism for making and using such boxes, and what should that box look like? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u133	This topic was discussed several times separately on the Temporary Special Commission, and the Temporary Special Commission agreed that running in Ukraine during the election of transparent boxes is a completely time-consuming technological tool to ensure transparency of the elections themselves. So we really think that regardless of what we're looking at, it's expensive enough to be able to budget all levels or for the state budget. We believe that such boxes should be introduced during this election campaign of the President of Ukraine. As far as the procedure is concerned. You've taken note of this consolidated bill, so it's pretty clearly written there. Perhaps not as detailed as you suggested. But the basic principles of your proposal are included in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u134	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich, sit down. The members of the Temporary Special Commission on this law were almost the only ones except John the Rabbit, who wants to express a separate opinion. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u135	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the election of the President of Ukraine is better than the law in force, but not so much so that it can be adopted immediately in general without the second reading procedure. The bill needs to be redrafted, which can be done during the second reading. In the absence of time, I'm going to point out just a few issues that aren't solved in the bill, but they're very important for democratic elections. The first, achilles ’ fifth and all other laws governing the electoral process are the absence of a systemic responsibility for violations of electoral legislation. The proposed bill contains a whole set of requirements, prohibitions, regulations, but the bill does not have mechanisms to force them to comply unconditionally, such as the legal responsibility for violating these requirements and the procedures for imposing them. The bill, for example, does not hold legal persons responsible for violating the law for illegal financing of electoral campaigns, for the use of enterprise resources during electoral campaigns, for the violation of information on the right to pre-election agitation, for violations of the authorities and businesses by administrative agents of the requirements for equal rights of candidates. Moreover, there is no responsibility for the violation of electoral legislation. The practice shows that electoral campaigns often violate electoral legislation in part of ensuring the principle of equality, but the bill does not say anything about the responsibility for the violation. The penalty contained in article 64, paragraph 4, cannot help with the matter of responsibility. The bill does not contain mechanisms to prevent the bribery of voters, although it is widely known that it is the bribery of voters that has become the most used electoral technology that distorts the free will of citizens in elections and is one of the worst threats to fair elections. The bribery algorithm is quite simple and understandable, making the creation of legal mechanisms of opposition quite easy. There is an urgent need to clarify the provisions of article 157 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to introduce a range of other legal requirements, including administrative responsibility. We should apply the principle applied in the fight against illicit drug use — not only drugs, but also drugs. In our case, this means that not only the one who arranges the bribe but also the one who makes the bribe: he distributes the money, he makes all the deals, he makes all the Greeks, there, and so on. It is necessary at the legislative level to prohibit the use of criminal and administrative responsibility to enter into any agreement between the Presidential candidate and the electorate, especially with the identification of the voter's passports. You know, these are all contracts, these are lies, they promise people they don't know what, they'll bring some Greeks -- people voted, and then no one sees that candidate for four years in that district, but he lied to people, because he made this deal, which he seems to be on paper, and he also pointed out his passport parameters, which is actually a certain pressure to choose this electorate. The same must be done in the course of the elections. In some cases, such activity may take place, but under separate legal regulations: by the permission of the CEC or the territorial election commission, with mandatory public announcements of elections. You know what happens during the election campaign. What is more, what kind of charitable activity is not being carried out? In fact, it is simply a bribe for the electorate. That's why I'm here for help. That's why it's worth strengthening that responsibility. To help me out, the Code on Administrative Offences of the Russian Federation contains 25 articles on administrative responsibility for violations of electoral legislation. In due course, national MPs proposed a bill, which unfortunately did not become the law to impose administrative responsibility in the form of fines for all possible violations of electoral legislation and for simplifying the procedure for infringements of administrative infringements. [[Safe, Ioff.]] So we have to go back to this legislation. The other one. Articles 52 and 56 are very dangerous. According to this editorial, dear friends, Medvedchuk could, if he wanted to, remove even such a candidate as Yanukovic, because he should read not only 52, 56, but also 46. And that gives you the opportunity to do what you want to do. That is why I advocate not to accept it as a whole. There's work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Sit down, Ivan Alexanderovich. Yes, dear colleagues, we have 11 minutes left, but let's take 15 to discuss. Slippery. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. In this Presidential Election Act, I propose the following amendments. In section 4, article 24, paragraph 6, it was precisely the rule of representation of a member of the commission from parties of at least 2 persons, as was the case in the old law. Simplify the form of voter statements at home for the elderly and the sick, as a written statement presents difficulties for them, and most of them do not participate in elections, so allow them to make oral requests by telephone. For this purpose, in section 10, article 76, paragraph 1, after the words “written statement”, add the word “or by telephone”. Third. Section 4 of article 34. Certificates of reassurance should be eliminated in general and mentioned in other articles should be deleted. Consolidation certificates would appear to be a democratic norm, but you all understand that it opens up a wide range of activities for falsification. This was acknowledged even by CEC former president Mikhail Rybetz. He said on this issue in an interview: “This rule has been used for very different purposes” and cited examples of thousands of people coming from other districts to support the candidate. Too bad, of course, he said that when the train left. Section 10, article 70, paragraph 6: “Delete checkpoints in the bulletin”. They do virtually nothing but complicate the voting process. I mean, unnecessary surgery. Most importantly, the checkpoints, as the last elections showed, were a frightening factor. Many believe that checkers can be found out who and who voted for them. Public opinion polls on this issue have shown that more than 90 per cent of voters feel that way. There have been cases where voters returned to the polls after the vote and requested their ballot from the urn. And the fifth. Section 10, article 74, paragraph 1. The beginning of the vote from 8.00 p.m. to 7.00 p.m. Practice has shown that many voters came by the crowds at 7: 00 p.m. and left irritable without voting because many of them were working on weekends, and many were participating in their circuits. And in the evening, the tired no longer go to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I want to draw attention to the protocol, Adam Ivanovich, of what is going on in the brutal violation of the Rules. Only today was a decision given to the Temporary Special Commission, and today a new version of the law was added and printed. Only last night was it printed, Adam Ivanovich. This is contempt for the people's deputies, and I consider this a brutal violation of our rights. Please don't let that happen. I'm talking to the regulatory committee, the more loyal it is to the regulatory committee, why aren't you looking at it, not responding? So, honourable national deputies, it's a very serious law. And what the Rabbit said today. Deputy John the Rabbit, it's absolutely right: that there is no responsibility for breaking the law, that irresponsibility is needed by the authorities. But why is it necessary for those who include themselves in the opposition and sign this project? What Is It for? Why was it necessary to replace the working standard, where 180 days were in place when the election campaign was already under way? It's actually going. For the purpose of violating the established order and the Code of Civil Procedure, a separate chapter of the bill, is chapter 12 on this very issue of judicial involvement in this process. And there are procedural norms. This is actually a change in the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure of Ukraine outside the procedural order. I can't agree with that, and I ask you to consider only the first reading and only the first reading. The procedure for the implementation in civil matters before the courts of Ukraine is determined by the rules of the current Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine and should not be subject to political tendering and regulation by other laws. Moreover, these procedural rules, either legally illiterate or totally distorted, repeat the rules of the current civil process. You can give a lot of examples of this, but there's no need to say and argue that differences between electoral legislation and civil-process norms will create difficulties in the work of the courts. The law clearly states that boxes should be transparent. And let's not walk away from this. It was my offer, I'm going to insist on it, I'm going to give it in writing. There should be a limited right to be elected, tried, regardless of the dismissal of the trial, of those who were agents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u140	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. In carrying out your persistent wish, I ask you not to violate the rules. Please, Yavorowski, behind him is Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u141	Vladimir Yavorowski, Block "Our Ukraine", Yavorowski, Jovkovsky. Galicina. Honourable Parliamentarians, honourable voters, people who will in a few months elect a new president, the leader of the nation. President Ford of the United States once made a very interesting joke, said, "In my country, anyone can become president. I became him." This playful democratic phrase, indeed, reflects the essence of a democratic America, indeed, can be the president of anyone who has the honour, the conscience, the mind that will lead the nations, that he is able to protect the interests of the nation. And I imagine, in our reality, what bitter irony does this phrase sound like: the President can be anyone because Leonid Danilovich Kuchma became. And yet, really, the president can be anyone who's been in prison, who's been under investigation, who's proved completely incapable of managing, let's say, some kind of state structure can basically become president. You don't believe me? This was proved by previous presidential elections, where all the dirtiest technologies there are were involved. Think of these boxes of money that the Fund was carrying, it seems, social protection. Think of the insinuation around Alexander Alexandrus Moroz, and you will realize that Kuchma was interested in one thing to go out with Peter Simonenko into the final, and that everything will be in place, as it were. I'm going to say this especially because when I took this law into my hands, I was afraid it would leave the main holes in the money, the criminal policy, the administrative resources in today's elections. I have to tell you that fortunately, of course, very many of these holes, the Klukkowski and the group that worked with him, were blocked. But I want to say, and I'm talking to Bogdan Havrish, who's standing back here, because he's not interested in hearing what he thinks about his bill anymore. I want to say one thing. If we're today specifically around every violation that is there, we don't put a specific ambush in law, a responsibility where every representative of the electoral commission would read and know that he would be responsible for it, we wouldn't do anything at all. Because, Sir Bogdan, I ask you to marry horses. I don't like this phrase that horses have to be changed for transportation, we have to change the ride for transportation, and the horses are normal, the horses are gonna be pulled. Because of this, they will hurry with this law today, halfheartedly, to accept it as a mockery, and so you are persecuting the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies. Society, you know, we've passed these laws here, San Sanic, you remember, it's like the perfect law, and when it starts touching this horrible life, we see, it's not working, it's not working, there's a hole, there's a hole. Let's start off by saying let's do all these tests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Storm's coming up. Prepare for Solomon Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u143	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. A coordinated draft of the Presidential Elections Act, registration number 2047, created by taking into account the provisions of Bills 2047, 2047/1. So in shaping the faction's position on this issue, we can't make it worse by improving legislation. It is from this point of view that we need to analyze and evaluate this bill. So we need to identify the most challenging points of his life. We believe that the right to apply for Presidential office, which is implemented only through parties and blocs, to date is premature. The role of the party in the electoral process, particularly in the election of the head of state, needs to be increased. But we cannot limit the rights of citizens. This is about electing a head of state to represent the interests of all citizens of the country, not just their individual party segments. Under conditions where political parties account for only three to eight per cent of Ukrainian citizens, the granting of a candidate for the presidency to parties and blocs only means the removal from this socially important procedure, the absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens. This approach will result in a decrease in the political activity of our citizens and political alienation. From this point of view, it is more appropriate to have a bill on the nomination of a candidate for the presidency also in the assembly of citizens and the way in which the bill entered into the agreed bill, and finally we have a constitutional rule. Secondly, we agree that it is not advisable to change the division of a single national constituency from 225 to 250, which was previously proposed. This would further complicate the electoral process, create new problems and contradictions that may be associated with the formation of new districts. The electoral infrastructure has already adapted to today's 225th structure. Thirdly, I would like to make a warning that the following provisions of the bill cannot be created by a territorial electoral commission simply by submitting candidates for the post of President of Ukraine. This preeminently creates a conflict-proof basis in the work of election committees, extending the scope of the electoral campaign to the electoral commission. It's unacceptable. In this order of election committees, they will not be able to perform their functions properly and be the organizer of the electoral process and the arbitrator in the resolution of conflict situations. Representatives of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine may have a priority right to be part of the commission, but the composition of the commission should be limited to them. Fourthly, we need to keep serious filters in the process of registering candidates for the president. The decrease in the number of signatures to 500,000 will result in an increase in the number of candidates. We can't turn the President's election into a parody and a fair. It is appropriate to keep the current standard. If the factions are removed, they will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u144	Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u145	. John the Rabbit. Responsibility in the law, apart from this law, is the Procedural Code, provided for, but tell us how we apply it. In the 61st district of Donetsk in the last election, we caught one voter who wanted to throw 26 ballots. The investigation, the investigator, the police, did we bring him to justice? I think it's one thing, and it's three to five in cities that aren't that far apart. Since we sent at least one person to these places by election, it would be a lesson for others. We took from two laws, Rudzkowski and Klukkowski everything that was rational. And they included the practice that we gained in the election of candidates for the national MPs. If I'm talking about the election, I have to say that the elections in the one-maned districts now have turned into a farce and we can't choose before, don't spend one million per district, make a chess game, let the authorities sign on this chess game, who should be a deputy and appoint. We've written down a rule in the law on that. That you can't be an observer, because on 61 counties you've looked at all the deputy heads of the district administration, you've been collecting official observers, and all the city, village, village and norm have been recorded. Yuri Bogdanovich here said that we had foreseen in connection with what might be re-voting and, perhaps, the work of the Electoral Commissions could be blocked, we had foreseen standards that made it impossible to apply this norm. Also included are the proposals made by MPs for teledebates between candidates. It was a controversial norm, it is optional, but it is. Number of re-elections decreased. I have to say that the group and the temporary commission did everything they could. If someone is now proposing to send a second reading, if someone can do so better, let him do so in preparing the elections for local councils. I propose this law in the vote-- when is it there? - Thursday night at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u146	Thank you. I'll give Rudzkowski a word as one of the co-authors of the bill in a minute, and he'll also have a special thought. Tomenko and Gavrish. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u147	Honorable National MPs, distinguished listeners. I believe that this law, which is prepared by a working group and supported by a commission, can be voted on as a whole, because it takes into account those bills that were the basis of the beginning, and an improved bill before democratic elections. It includes all aspects: both the financing of the electoral campaign, and the restrictions on the price of advertising, and it also provides the innovation on which the Ponmarenko People's Deputy stopped. We introduced a bill: Second round television debates, which in fact oblige two candidates on the second round to come to the debates and defend their programmes against all voters. This will give a more transparent choice for the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u148	Please, Tomenko. After him, Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I would also like to make a positive statement regarding the work of the working group. All the suggestions that I, as the author and from my colleagues, have been taken into account and taken into account in part in the resolution of the problems of the media, and are here in the law, and I think this is serious progress, because we are regulating the rules of the game not only in the parts of the television debates that we have proposed, the parts of the funding and many other problems. At the same time, a few warnings I would like to make. We're worried about the incompleteness of our standards, we've limited the use of foreign media, so obviously we should add those who are being retransmitted in Ukraine have no right to participate in the presidential election campaign, the agitation. And of course I'm concerned about the problem that the Supreme Court can withdraw from registration for things like interethnic fighting, undermining security. We know, after the decisions of the judges in Ukraine, that any person can be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u150	Please, Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u151	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The temporary special commission worked in a special regime, and we tried to count the maximum number of proposals made by the national deputies on a temporary special commission. But the compromise that took place did not allow us to really take into account in detail all the things that we discussed very carefully both in the working group and in the temporary special committee. Addressing the respected writer Vladimir Yavorowski, I would like to say that you have expressed very emotionally the inadmissibility of this law -- the law that your colleagues and colleagues in the "Our Ukraine" bloc were working on. I'm sure it's their position that has allowed this law to be extremely democratic and that it meets the standards of modern European democracy. On the other hand, as a writer, you know that comparisons aren't always. Bring it when you don't know what it's with. End of story. If you change the one who runs the horses, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u152	Thank you. Discussing the question. Well, I can't help but visit the Hare. Please, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u153	Dear National Deputies! One speaker here said that we had legal responsibility for violations of electoral law. But it's not being applied. Yes, we have three articles in the Criminal Code, we have an article in the Code of Administrative Offences, but these are articles that are virtually impossible to even apply. But there is a gap. This is a whole series, perhaps even 50 or 60 articles need to be made. So I wouldn't be so distracted by the fact that we have legislation that makes it impossible to break an electoral legislator. There's one more moment. We cannot rush into such serious matters. The MPs have the right to submit their proposals for first reading so that this bill can be improved. And one more thing. The procedural code establishes judicial procedures, not liability or sanctions. That's for the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u154	Thank you. So, we're done here? Shall we vote? Okay. Then we'll vote tomorrow. The question is, the bill on the election of local council members, the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads. [[Now I'm sure I'll name it according to the bill.]] [[Registration 2211]] National MP Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich reports. Again, the procedure of 45 minutes of consideration of the matter is in accordance with the procedure of the Rules. Please, 10 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Bill 2211 replaces the previously submitted bill on the election of deputies to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village, city heads. The main conceptual provisions of the bill were agreed on 11 March 2004 by the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine. On March 15, 2004, a working group, with the participation of a representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of the Road, the authors of the bill, representatives from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Department of State Building, the Chief Advisers of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the representative of the Central Electoral Commission, and the delegation of the People's Deputy of the Keyling Assistant of Bagasheva, introduced a bill on the election of deputies to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads of change, which dealt with the principle of conceptual issues agreed on the interim commission. This was the case with article two, which provides for the election of deputies, and I repeat to you, honourable national deputies. The election of deputies to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the City, the District Councils, the District and the District Councils by a proportional system whereby a deputy is elected by election lists of candidates for deputies from organisations, political parties, election blocs of political parties in a multi-mandatory district, whose boundaries coincide with the respective territorial community or administrative unit or district in the city. The election of members of the village and village councils is proposed to conduct a major system of the relative majority in one-maned constituencies, which are divided into villages, villages, and several villages, whose inhabitants have voluntarily joined the rural community. This calls for candidates to be nominated to the councils, both by political party organizations, electoral blocs, political party organizations, and by self-determination. Article 14 provides for the election to local councils at the same time as the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Discussions were held on this issue, not in the spring, but in the autumn, to hold local councils. [[November-month]] However, the decision of the commission and the majority of those voted will recommend that elections be held to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to local councils at the same time. The same issue was addressed by article three on participation in the vote of prisoners and military servicemen who are not members of the respective territorial community. The shareholders of the commission, their mandates, are unified by the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Article 26 makes it impossible for the electoral commission to decide on self - divorce. It also regulates the order and order of voting in the polling station. Article 86 sets out the order and size of the election fund of the local organization, sets the limits that I would like to tell you today. So the marginal cost is proposed for the electoral fund. Next. 20,000 voters, 20,000 dollars, 50,000, 100,000, 100,000, 500,000 voters, 250,000, 500,000 voters, 500 000 dollars, over 1 million voters, 1 million dollars. The border amount of the election fund of the candidate for rural, rural, urban head may not exceed half the amount of parties and blocks, that or. is part two of this article. So for a candidate in a one-maned constituency, 500 untaxed minimums are offered. A natural person can make a sum of up to 30 untaxed minimums. Of course, discussions were under way on cities with over 1.5 million to 2 million voters. But if you have the right suggestions to have the honourable national deputies read the second reading, we will work on your proposals in the working group. Here's what I'd like to pay attention to. There's been a lot of discussion, so there's been a definition of registration. The warning was that sometimes a court decision by a committee would cause candidates to be unwarranted from the relevant parties, or from the parties, or from the rural, village council of the respective party. We settled this in article 48 of the bill. I'd just like to say a few words about the preconditions, which means what we used when we prepared this bill. We're still hoping that society today is ready for a system of choices to the level that we've offered you today. I have a basis for that. An analyst who today has the right to inform you, dear colleagues, about the results of the 2002 elections. They show that in the nomination of candidates to local councils, rural, urban, political parties, blocs for today's candidate or, we will speak, elected deputies for the recommendations of political parties, the blocs today work: we have 36.5 per cent of such deputies in the district councils; we have 35.5 per cent in the district councils; we have 43 per cent in the republican, autonomous Republic of Crimea councils today; we have 43 per cent in the district councils; we have 27.9 per cent in the district councils; we have 46.6 per cent in the councils today. Note, dear colleagues, the statistics on the promotion of deputies by political parties, blocks to rural, village councils. And they're working there today: in village councils -- 15.8 percent, in rural -- 9.4 percent. So we agree that at the village council level, there should be a major election system, because the attractiveness of today at this level is not as high as we would have been given. And that's why we can just frame rural, village councils on this issue, where there may not be an election. I would also like to point out today that the precondition for introducing the bill and putting it into the room and making the decision on this point is that more than 10,000 territorial communities are taking part in the electoral process. It is therefore important that the adoption of this law increase the role and responsibility of local political parties and blocs. We realize that when elections are held simultaneously, on a proportionate basis, if a law is passed, to the Supreme Council, local elections are not as careful on the part of local centres as they are on the Supreme Council. So the responsibility at the level of the district, the city, is a little lower than that of the election to the Supreme Council. I would also like to share some of the questions about the election analysis in 2000 with the Supreme Council, because they are present and are as if it were a guide for the locals. For the election to the local council. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed on some positions on the observations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority. For example, in the bill you've already been given, we've taken into account those proposals that were made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority. There are other works and innovations in this bill. But the time is up, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u156	Thank you. Sign up. Please, five minutes. Lighten up. Gossip, get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u157	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, of course, my colleagues and I support the bill. But do you not feel that you, the authors, are putting the executive branch in an extremely difficult position? The thing is, they don't have anyone else to take from and run to the party, and Agrarn, then the People's Democratic, then the Social Democratic, with the letter "oh," now the party of the regions. Where would they take people if such a law were adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u158	Well, how would I answer, of course, where today is one party or another, I think that each party has human resources, has the right members of the party, but I haven't been able to say about the election of the Supreme Council, where the electorate has really understood and supported those political powers that they trust more. I believe that each party has a powerful potential for registered city centres to participate in the elections. I don't think that this bill has any difficulty, nor has any party that has representations at the level, regional level, at the local level, is put at the root of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u159	Please, School. Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u160	Thank you. The honourable reporter will, of course, have to support this bill in the first reading -- it will be possible to discuss, supplement, improve, without objection. But I have a slightly different question plan here. You see, Ukraine is still looking forward to administrative reform, and anyway, we're going to be looking at the administration system of Ukraine -- areas, areas and so on. In general, I think that Ukraine's base is the area, and the area, therefore, the district council does an extra time of auxiliary and sometimes unnecessary function, because they're just distributing, district council, what the Supreme doesn't allocate. And the budget needs to be formed from the bottom, that is, from the districts. So I'd like to propose in the final positions to predict changes, organic changes to this law when it becomes law, after administrative reform, because it's very important and, once again, I'm convinced that administrative reform was required in Ukraine 5-7 years ago. Oh, we're gonna be doing it anyway. Is that your attitude? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u161	Thank you for asking. Of course, we have prepared this bill for consideration under today's administration. And of course any law needs work. If this is done: an administrative-territorial arrangement or a change before., there will certainly be changes to the bill. I think it's in time. I agree with you, because in practice, working as the head of the district council, I've come to realize a lot: how important it is for the principle to be, indeed, the district council, where it trusts, certainly, and to be responsible for the socio-economic development of the territories and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u162	Please, Master. Behind him, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u163	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of Ukraine, constituency number 14. You know, it's a very important law, especially given the work of major MPs when we're going to the county right now, and they're going to ask us about it. I would like to be made more clear about what simplified procedures are there for de-registration in order to make it impossible to do this in situ. And what I'm especially interested in is, you know, I've been in the district -- maybe there wasn't one in all of Ukraine -- the village of Birkhov had three elections, and there's no way of doing that. You know, each of the candidates filed for trial and won it. Let's think about how to improve the system so that this post-election exercise is somehow not reflected in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u164	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. It's about that we're still making it impossible for us to take some of the withdrawal issues just out of the candidate's registration, if there's any way that he doesn't like anyone. I mean, today we're making it impossible to ask this question if it's given or if there's some kind of error in the data: there's a dot, there's a coma, there's others, there's no point, there's no point, there's no reason why there's no reason for a suitable candidate to be removed. This is very clearly stated and supported by a special commission, and the group agreed on this article of the law. Still, I think we've managed to find the formula that makes it impossible for someone to take it down today. There's a reason that we said that when a suitable candidate can be removed, a list of these reasons set out in the bill, I think it's more clearly explained than it was in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u165	Please, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u166	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Of course, this bill will be supported, it carries the right base. Now I would like to give the word to Alexander Petrovich of Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u167	Barana microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u168	Thank you. Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Please tell the Honorable Reporter that you have been told that no close relatives of the candidates may be included in the district commission. How long are they written, who's next of kin, who's next of kin, or is it a sister-in-law, let's say they're using it against a candidate? Next. The suspension of the powers of the district commission can be done by the prosecutor or the one who created it, and why not just by the court, why do we involve prosecutors here? And one more thing. Does this law then make it impossible to assign temporary duties to the city’s head, as it is now in Mukachevo, other cities? Is there such a barrier that there is no such permissiveness as there is now?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u169	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. We clearly identified in article 21, paragraph 12, who are close relatives. And already in the bill that was introduced in exchange, it provides that close relatives, this is a husband, a wife, a parent and an adult, this is clearly defined. And what about the removal of the prosecutor's intervention. This has already been done only by a decision of the court and by the submission of appropriate territorial commissions regarding the court, if any questions are not resolved. I think we have answered a lot of questions from those who came from the deputies. We took into account everything and what might have been included in the first reading. But if proposals for the bill are yet to come, the group is ready to work on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u170	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat. According to the decision of the Temporary Special Commission, the co-rapporteur was appointed co-chair of the commission, Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, this is an important project, obviously the most difficult of electoral legislation. The commission and the working group working on it assumed that it could become part of a single election code. All procedural nuances are taken into account, which allow for the adaptation of all bills. It has special features regarding the right to vote who has the right to vote, to other authorities, to local authorities, to who and in what way to nominate candidates. It's all settled and Mikhail Vasilovich partially reported these things. We believe that such a law will be an important component of the political structure of society. Along with the President's Elections and Elections Act to the Supreme Council, this law creates a condition for political influence on power throughout the vertical section of society. And this is a condition of feedback from the electorate to all power lines. I think it's fundamentally important. The law provides for the strengthening of the function and role of the local representative bodies, and the proposal of the authors of the amendments to the Constitution, one of the authors of Anatoly Matvienko, who introduces a specific draft law along with other deputies, I believe that this position should be taken into account after the vote on changes to the Constitution. Finally, by adopting this law, when we consider changes to the Constitution, we approach only complex political reform -- reform and state administration -- and the reform of conditions for the control of the power of the people. The commission is working very hard today. She's willing to take all the wise suggestions into account. Let's take this opportunity and prepare a law that will work effectively on.. during appropriate campaigns and will not allow the people to intervene on the part of the administrative structures, on the part of the administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u172	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Sign up for questions. Please, three minutes. Lighten up. Shevchuk, prepare Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I really, as a member of the interim commission, want to testify to the great work carried out by the commission and especially by you as co-chair of this commission. And we go to the final stage and I think these laws are going to be voted on. But my question is a little different. Today, there are questions on the concept and standards of democratic elections, electoral rights and freedoms in the member states of the SND. This document is being prepared for ratification. If you are familiar with him, there is a position that is contrary to exactly the legislative acts that the TSC has been working on under your headship. Will this mean that you will stand up when ratifying your copyright, or will you, for ideological reasons, go to ratifying the concept of SND? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u174	I think Sergey Volodymyrovich that the concept in the SND countries was developed under our law. And since the quality of our law is, in my opinion, higher and democratic, we'll recommend that the countries of the SNS also reach this level and stand up for these very principles that we are predicting here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u175	Please, Mihovich, follow him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u176	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Alexander, and the commission, and led by your team, has done a really big job drafting this very relevant bill. Speaking of all three that are being considered, one of the toughest places is control over the results of the vote. Whether this or previous bill provides for the possibility of checking whether the results of the vote, the minutes and the ballots available in the urns coincide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u177	By developing all the electoral laws and including this one, we have been paying particular attention to the specificity of the complaints about the results of the elections and especially to the control of the counting of votes. Therefore, the issuance of protocols to observers and other constituencies is foreseen here. And if a political structure, a party, in particular, or a constituency can provide a parallel voter count or otherwise provide electoral control, this will create the right conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u179	Thank you. Alexander Alexandrovich, I'd like to ask you a simple question about how you feel about administrative and territorial reform, because this law will still regulate the elections to the local authorities and provide for a district council. I say all the time, I'm a very opposed to this institution, we have to go to the district council level and strengthen local self-government in the first place. And an additional question. Western all institutions envision logos of political parties that will participate in the elections. And given that this is going to be regional representations, these are logos that clearly identify one political power from another, I think they'd be inextricable in ballot papers when they vote on the level of villages, villages, cities and districts. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u180	With regard to administrative reform, we cannot write a draft of the Law by applying ourselves to something that does not yet exist. So we're taking into account today's administrative and territorial arrangements, and some of the changes that will take place in the process of forming representative bodies at the local level will be taken into account without a doubt, and in that project that I talked about earlier, which will be proposed by Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Regarding the fact that people have to identify the party they vote for, this is taken into account by the listing levels: the district to the district council, and the district organization can recommend to the local authorities, people will know, because one way or another, the area is not such a big area that the community doesn't know which party it represents. And according to the district council, the same thing. Urban party organizations will recommend candidates for city councils and city councils. So here, I think it's easier for the electorate to figure out who represents who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u181	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Have a seat, please. Fifteen minutes for discussion. Please, Rabbit. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u182	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Judging from how many deputies are in the room right now, I see our deputies are not very concerned about local self-government. If we talk about this bill, it's very important to us, because the foundation of a state organization is anyway, social, it's self-government. Yeah, well, if you start to analyze this bill, you could say that it has the same flaws as the Ukrainian President's Election Bill. Nothing here is said about legal responsibility, it's not said in terms of the use of administrative resources today, it's abuse of office, it's the use of organs or businesses, it's a lot of other things. So I feel that it needs to be worked out in this part, that it should be addressed in the Criminal Code and in the Administrative Code. We have to close the electoral bribery routes, we have to close the routes of manipulation with our citizens' consciousness. The other one. It seems to me that elections should be arranged for local self - government and for the Supreme Council. Because the electorate has to control the power after a short period of time. We do this situation for four years, the authorities do what they want with this people, then wait for the fourth year when you can change them. I also think there are some contradictions in this bill with the Constitution of Ukraine. Today, according to our Constitution, district councils and district councils express the interests of the community of villages, villages, or cities. I don't see a mechanism in this bill today that ensures the representation of this community, and so there is a great danger that the interests of the village, whether the villages, whether the cities will not be represented at regional or regional level. So in this direction, we need to improve this bill in order to bring it into the constitutional field and create such representation mechanisms that we need to talk about today in order for self-government to work. I don't think this bill can vote in general, like the President's Election Bill. He needs to be voted on in the first reading and put to work, or he needs to turn his face back to local self - government. I'm an example of that. Recently on Saturday, Sunday, Monday in Zakarpat, there was the 65th anniversary of Carpathian Ukraine, and television showed only one official or two officials from Uzhgrad, and not one citizen from Hust, where there were thousands of demonstrations where the board was opened, where the city head organized all these things. This is how we feel about local self - government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u183	Please, Puzakov, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u184	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Article 3, paragraph 6, states that there is no right to vote in the local elections of Ukrainian citizens declared ineffective by the court. The question is, Why does the court, rather than the medical institution, establish incapacity, and who will then file a case for incapacity of a citizen, and what is the criterion for this incapacity? As for the proposals to exclude the executive committees of local councils from the number of entities authorized to form commissions, it is very correct. The law must clearly determine that election committees are exclusively responsible. Involvement in the electoral process of local public administrations and local authorities should qualify as a violation of the law and be held accountable. In general, the bill on this issue, introduced by the People’s Deputies of Moroz, Winski and Melniczuk, is relevant and necessary. I also agree with the second article, which says that the election of deputies to rural, rural councils should be conducted in a majority system, but we should not reject a proportional system. And the election of deputies to district and city councils is based only on a proportional basis. Many voters disagree with the direct elections of rural, rural, circuit, and city heads and suggest that they be chosen only at appropriate sessions of elected deputies. In general, we will vote and support this bill as a whole and as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u185	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u186	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The adoption of this law is the last stone to be cemented by the cement of that national betrayal, which is called the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which they want to ensure the preservation of effective authority in power. And I think that removing committees, such as the Committee on Local Self-Government, from making decisions, from considering these projects, from expressing their position, is an anti-constitutional act. Alexander Alexander was also here today to answer the question. Alexandre Alexandrovich, you know the Rules very well. But you know that your commission was suspended only last night. And you realize that this is a very difficult question for the people. And we asked the community or the people we refer to: Is it ready today, or does it want it? Not ready. She understands us better, Alexander Alexandrovich, better us. But is that what it wants? So why don't we get a referendum, we don't do this at the same time with the President's election, and we won't rush anywhere, and we won't tie it up in some clear deal with Bank Street. But then no changes will be made, then no marionette government will be saved, no criminal regime will be saved. Today, since April 1, Odessa has nearly doubled the cost of utilities. Who would go to this person if he didn't have a specific MP? What are we doing, ladies and gentlemen? Do we think that we are doing? I'm addressing the forty deputies who are now in this room. Unfortunately, there are only forty of us here, and I am addressing Ukrainian citizens. Perhaps we need to demand the right to a referendum, perhaps we need to demand that legislative ways be put in place now to end the forgerys that these elections might be. Perhaps if the transparency and openness of the electoral process are to be established in article 13, the media should be told regardless of the form of ownership. Today, the city head of Odessa Bodelan gives me neither television nor television. He doesn't print in his newspaper, because he thinks it's his town newspaper. Do you understand? And it's sold out, it's sold out, it's sold out. It will also be sold out, the codes will now be passed by this law. I'm against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u187	Please, instead of Soboljev Gorenik. Prepare Matvienka from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u188	The miner, the valley constituency, the faction of our Ukraine. Deputies! Dear voters! One of the few benefits of so - called political reform is a certain reform of electoral legislation. And a very good sign is the long-awaited debate today on the bill on the election of local MPs, because active legislation has already led to the inability to prevent counterfeiting twice, and an unfair approach when the cities of millionaires and the tens of thousands of rural areas have the same representation, let's say, in district councils. The overemphasis on the unpartyity and apoliticality of the current law allows the old post-communist nomenclature to choose itself continuously, and the new money bags simply buy convenient districts to the city councils mainly, which sometimes costs more than the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for example in Kiev. The bill is some attempt to break the vicious circle of self-replication of an active, so-called, elite and political structure of society. But we need to take our time without rushing. And that's why I'm definitely against acceptance as a whole, but only on the first reading. The main flaws. It is categorically against the reconciliation of both elections to the Supreme Council and to local authorities, if both are conducted by a proportional system. Of course, the limits of election funds — both local and presidential — seem ridiculous. I can't imagine the city head of Kiev being picked at $100,000. There is no doubt that women’s representation needs to be quotaed. The shameful vote of yesterday shows some misunderstandings of men in this matter. Quoting women’s representation to both the Supreme Council and local authorities. It is not clear from the law that the election to the district council and the district council is a multi-mandatory one. Again, it is necessary to make it more clear that there is no equal representation from the district center and from some rural community. There is absolutely no satisfaction with the 3% election barrier in multi-mandatory elections. Of course, there is a complete lack of direct selection of the heads of the districts and districts. In the course of constitutional reform, we certainly need to go back to that. And the last. With regard to officials of local self - government and state authority, the national deputies of Ukraine must be expelled, otherwise we will not be involved in this process. I would like to support the first reading and the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Matthews, then a minute of school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to express some thought. First of all, I'm the deputy advisory board at the Head of the Supreme Council, and I have an obligation -- the commission of this advisory board, where the heads of district, city and district structures of local self-government are involved -- to say that they firmly deny that law to adopt it. But I have a personal opinion. And my personal opinion goes back to that. I think we should go boldly and take bold steps in proportion. But I have some doubts, and I'd like to turn to you, Alexander Alexander, and to you and to Mr. Melniczuk about these doubts. The first question is that the seriousness with which we are discussing this bill today is of serious concern to me. And aren't we being dumped, including in proportional elections both to the Supreme Council and to local self - government in the name of some other, indeed, shuler step that we are preparing? I don't see Bolsheviks, and it's disturbing to me. And they're going to hate to vote for this law, as I know, but I don't know how long they're going to be demonstrating it. The other one. I don't think it's that simple, because we need to synchronize the bills to the Ukrainian national MPs, the local authorities. Today, they are not synchronized as well as with the law that is preparing for local self - government today. If we're in a hurry to do this, I think we can break down a lot of wood that's going to make up a problem after this law has been implemented. Now let's look at another problem that exists today. We can destroy the level of local self-government as basic. And we figured out that this is a village, a village, a city. And that's what's important about local self-government. The region and the area are the levels of local self - government that have to decide the common interests of the territorial communities, that is, the village, the village, the city. And so it might be that most of the territorial communities in the area and in the area will not be represented. I want to ask you, what are the common interests, and then where is this mechanism to protect these common interests? So this is a problem that should be seriously discussed. Now, at the same time or at the same time, elections are held to the Supreme Council, if possible, literally for another 30 seconds, to the Supreme Council and to the local authorities. It would seem logical at the same time. Because the parties are coming, and they're voting for the parties. But we have a problem, San Sanic, is there going to be the same block configuration? Because at the local level, there could be one block with one configuration, and at the entire Ukrainian level, there could be another block, and what kind of colossality are we creating here? How can we deal with the mentality of our constituents? And the last. I'm asking for two more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u191	Come on, easy, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u192	Five more seconds. We need to take a good look. And we are now preparing the law not only for changes to the Constitution, for which I thank you, San Sanic, you support, but we are also preparing the Law on Local Self-Government. And this law must be seriously incorporated. Because a strong head and elected council on a proportional basis can create a certain coalition. And we need to clearly distinguish between the authority and the mechanism of the opposites. So I think we need to hurry, so we need to move fast, but not rush to do anything stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u193	Please, School. After him a minute Bespaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u194	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. First of all, I would like to emphasize two aspects. Aspect first. I am opposed to being a direct election of the head, that is, the district manager and the district manager. Here we immediately make some contradictions. A political party that doesn't have the ability to list its people will drop everything, wave its hand, and work just to pick its own head, let's say, the area. Another political party chooses, gets the majority in the area, and puts a conflict situation in place. So I think that the election law will not be violated if voters delegate their rights to the deputies of the district council, and the deputies of the district council will choose the district manager. Then it will be a perfectly natural, full process. The same could be true of areas. But I've already stressed that I'm opposed to today's territorial administration, opposed to the area in general. And the second. It's a shame that the author of the proposal for gender equality in the district councils went there. I'd like to see that district council, where would you choose how much there is? 60 percent of women offering or 40 percent on the list. For example, in Lviv, this will not be possible. I'd like to see it in other areas as it will be. And with regard to the proponents of gender policy, I propose that gender be extended to the presidency. Two times we had a husband as president, so the third time we have to choose a woman as president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u195	Yes, please, Bespaly Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u196	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I wanted in this case, the situation is quite clear, everyone understands what's going on. I wanted to pay attention to just one situation, and perhaps more attention to those who are very afraid of proportional elections at the level of districts, districts, and cities. I want to pay attention to the responsibilities of the deputies in front of the electorate. If we have such a scattered MP today, it is totally unclear who is responsible for the unnecessary situation that is very common in places. So what I wanted to emphasize is that the very essence of the proportional or the component of the election, is that it comes to power by political teams or other political groups, just in politics they're called parties. And politics, like any other good thing, is totally a commanding game. And so, I think, to be afraid of moving to a proportional system is absolutely not worth it, it is a great excuse for itself in a number of European countries and at a local level, for example, in Sweden, which may be considered a model country, and in Poland, which has gone this way and is moving forward in Ukraine. And I think it's important to us. The second situation, I think, is still a three - percent barrier, which is very low. Why? And so do the Supreme Council. Nevertheless, political elites should be represented, not political outsiders. The political elite of Ukraine gathered here, and I do not understand why we are talking about lowering the barrier. We need teams, and teams are powerful, capable of taking responsibility. Now the third circumstance, the proportional system, is already known, it greatly reduces the motive for abuse of power, because all the political teams that have overcome the barrier, well, in this case four or five, and this is of course not in line with the version that is unfortunately still in place today, where, for example, in the district government or in the city council, there is such a chessboard that fills the desired candidates, who then make up most of the parliamentary corps. Still, we need to trust the electorate more and try less to hold onto these chairs. And the last. I can't say the same thing, I'm also sorry that we were there yesterday, well, March is more, third month, the third such number, and we kind of treated women in such a bad way. Although it is the representation of women on local councils that is greater. I think that in electoral legislation we should take more account of the interests and improvements of our part of mankind. So in summary, I would like to say such a thing. Dear colleagues, you don't have to be afraid of voters, you don't have to hide behind an administrative resource, let's still take this law as a basis, and then we settle other points, including responsibility, control, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u197	Thank you. Boris Yakovlevich, prove this to your committee head. Please, from the reporters, the word Alexandro Alexandrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. There were observations and less important principles. I mean, let's take a look at the composition of local councils, for example, district councils. And it turns out that in many councils today, 70 percent of the members of the district council live in a renegade, they are representatives of administrative district structures that have no bearing on the territorial communities directly. Although I understand that they are trying to take into account the needs of the territorial communities. There is such a warning. Let's try to take into account these observations that Anatoly Sergiyovich made for the second reading, but mother, to also come out of the reality that has arisen today. And second moment. What George Carmazin suggested was to consult society there in a referendum. I think he said a little bit here, not what he knows, because God saves us now from the new referendums, we know what it is. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u199	Thank you. Please let me finish. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u200	Let me finish. So the point is that in the last election, we talked to the voters about the need for political reform, about the necessary changes to the Electoral Law, to local councils in particular. And that's why people trust us. And the first reaction, even the fact that we have asked this question for discussion, is already causing a lot of interest for local communities, including not only the political structure, but also the local elite, the governors and, in particular, the electorate. I think we're taking the right step -- we just have to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-17-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll finish. We conclude the discussion of the draft Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads. We'll make a decision tomorrow. I sincerely thank those national deputies who have taken an active part in this discussion. I apologize for some violation of the Rules on the grounds that we have continued for more than 15 minutes. But you and I have agreed that we will conclude our consideration of this matter at this morning’s meeting. At 3 p.m. Parliamentary hearings are held: "Oncological Diseases in Ukraine: Problems and Ways to Overcome." At 4:00 a.m., work starts on committees and factions. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
