ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:57]] A total of 424 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on October 5. Yesterday we considered 16 issues of order, 16 draft laws, and nine draft regulations. As a result of the four bills adopted in the first reading, one bill is aimed at re-reading, 11 bills have been rejected, two decrees have been approved, and seven draft decrees have been rejected. A protocol decision has been made to include the issue in the agenda of the sixth session. I would like to ask the legislators to pay attention to the quality of the bills that are being submitted to the Supreme Council. Because there is an increase in the number of bills that the Supreme Council rejects in relation to their low quality. Now for the announcements, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Rajkov Boris Sergiyovitch from the MP's faction of the "One Ukraine" party and his membership in the Democratic Initiatives Group. Yes, for reasons, please sign in for three minutes. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please explain. Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u2	Yuri Pavlenko, Our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u3	Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In view of the unprecedented facts of the production of uncalculated agitation materials that appeared not only last week but also yesterday at the warehouses of the State Administration, materials that call for civil war, the inflaming of interregional conflicts, the materials that equipping the presidential candidate, the faction of the Viktor Yuschenk bloc insists that we begin the work of today’s factions session at the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we've got 45 minutes to do this. If you don't mind, we'll start with the speeches, and all that's left is time, and then we'll read the questions. We've got 45 minutes for everything. And from the change in the additions, the amount does not change as far as we know. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of Timoshenko block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u6	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u7	Alexander the Turkinov, please. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you as Head of the Supreme Council Commission, which controls the electoral process. Yesterday, you may know that not only has a huge amount of dirty lying literature been found that compromises the people's president, who compromises Ukraine in general, but all of this dirt has been found in the state administration warehouses of the President's Administration. I want to ask you and your colleagues from the so-called Presidential former majority, did the state authorities officially cross the line of law and start a civil war against their own people? I demand the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko to immediately call here a representative, more loyally, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, to report on why the power system is failing, why they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! I would like to say that we are also state authorities. Parliament is a state authority; we have not crossed any limits. So let's not generalize. Just a minute. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the NDP and the SPT.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm very grateful that you said at the beginning of the session that the Supreme Council, the real Supreme Council, who works rather than sabotages, did yesterday. But yesterday, in the "Details" program on "Inter," I heard with my ears that the Supreme Council didn't make any decision on the 5th. Dear colleagues, there must be a limit to this lie. And now I want to turn to our audience: the most important laws and regulations, including the State Land cadastre, were adopted yesterday in the first reading, including the decree on measures to honor the veterans of the Great Homeland War on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine. So I want to talk to our fellow citizens who listen to us: go to your neighbors, to your relatives, to your friends, to your colleagues, tell them that these channels are lying, tell them that when they say white to someone, it's really black when they say black, it's white. Count this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions. Sulkovski Pavlov Gnatovic from the faction of "Ukraine", prepare Mikoli Onichuku from the NDP and SPTU. Well, they do. Then we will read the questions after that, fellow believers!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We have many national deputies concerned with the misinterpretation of the investigator commission that we have created for a long time. And you know, dear friends, what I'd like to do today is the position of our faction of the "Ukraine Region" so that tomorrow we will require the commission to provide information on its activities: investigating the poisoning of the honorable Viktor Andriyovich. We were, indeed, all, dear friends, concerned when we saw really on Victor Andryovich's rostrum, really that there was a sick person. And we all voted almost unanimously, dear friends, to create a commission of inquiry. However, looking at how it is today, this commission, I think, and not only in my opinion, many of the people's deputies, and our faction did not understand the position of the commission. That's why we, our faction, are demanding that tomorrow in parliament give us an analysis, give us information about the activity, and that this committee for this, this time-consuming commission has already conducted an investigation, and that it can inform us that we know today. If this committee doesn't inform us tomorrow, we have to create an alternate commission immediately tomorrow. And I think that this commission should inform and execute immediately before the election of the Ukrainian people, and the truth should be shown to the Ukrainian people. Because there is virtually only one speculation today, but there is nothing else. Well, some people were yelling, "What a shame! Shame!".. And all his life, he's been yelling, "What a shame!".. And we want to know exactly what is going to happen to us. Because, on the one hand, Viktor Andriyovich explains that he is healthy, on the other hand, everyone is yelling that he is sick. I don't understand. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we ask and ask tomorrow to consider this issue so that this commission will inform us all in Parliament directly from this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u13	Yes, Michael Onichuk is invited from the faction of the People's Democratic Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Prepare Valentine Matthew from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! On October 5, 2004, the news release on the First National Channel and on the Inter channel was the popular text of a statement by the parliamentary-government coalition announced during the morning plenary session of the same day. As we know, this statement was made by the national deputy of Gennady Samofal. In particular, it was noted that the declaration was announced on behalf of six parliamentary factions, including the factions of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. In this regard, members of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and National Deputies of the People's Democratic Party claim that they have not signed or taken decisions to support the declaration. [[Applause]] No support was expressed for this statement and for the faction meeting where the issue was discussed. In this regard, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, led by Presidential Presidential candidate Anatoly Kinach and the People’s Democratic Party, demands that widespread misinformation be refuted and that political speculations be denied about the most important human values of life and health. The faction also claims that the political assessment of the events involving the candidate’s illness in the Presidential office of Viktor Yushchenka is only possible if the criminal investigation is completed by the Attorney General’s Office for the existence of Viktor Yashchenk’s disease and the provisional parliamentary commission established by the Supreme Council has reached its conclusions. Dear colleagues, I would like to conclude by showing you the text of the statement, and if you look closely at where the NDP and PPU factions stand, and it is really a member of the parliamentary coalition today, the signature of the joint heads of this faction is missing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u15	Valentin Grigorovich Matviev is invited to speak from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Proscot Tamara.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! At the heart of the problems that concern our society the most today is a complex of pension insurance issues, particularly the part that relates to the government's widely advertised increase in the minimum pension to the standard of living. The mainstream media shout loudly, and every day, a certain increase in the minimum pension. With full responsibility to our destitute people, the Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine claims that the government has not only changed the minimum pension, but has not intended to do so, the minimum pension has remained at the level of 137 dollars, which is twice the minimum wage. In spite of the current legislation according to which the pension can be established only by law, the minister’s office has established an address money aid. The objective of the move is to make Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic the next president. Today, 284 bracelets are offered to people who have earned much more in hard work over the years. We are forced to draw the attention of the electorate, some of whom today do not fully understand what is happening and how this will end, to a number of fundamental questions. First. You haven't been able to get the promised help yet, and the prices have already gone down. The other one. The 2005 National Budget project of Ukraine does not provide for the necessary costs. It is proposed to increase them from 2.5 to only 5 billion dollars. While the actual price of this pre-election populim for the government itself is no less than 1 billion dollars, it is then more than 12 billion dollars per year. Third. By this decision, the government has introduced a counterbalance that primarily affects those who have worked longer and harder. Therefore, in order to provide for pensioners, veterans and disabled persons from a similar scenario, the leader of our faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, introduced a draft Act amending the Act "On mandatory State Pension Insurance", which is proposed to set the minimum pension at the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u17	Tamara Proskuratov is invited to speak from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! As a result of my regional trips, my colleagues have been instructed to convey their gratitude to the Supreme Council deputy corps for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Pedagogical Workers, provided for by 57 articles of the Ukrainian Law on Education, the signing of this law, the provision in the draft budget was the best gift to my colleagues on the occasion of a professional holiday that was celebrated last Sunday. And even the fact that a vote of 237 votes in the first reading to over 400 in closing is a testimony that despite political hot debates by the Supreme Council, the government is returning to the face of teaching problems. In addition, I cannot help but exclaim the concern of colleagues, students, parents, who are involved in the absence of individual members of the growing generation of high morals, culture of conduct, and tolerance. Not taking responsibility from the school’s school process, they ask for State support in increasing the role of children’s and young people’s organizations. And the fact that this question has been raised repeatedly at meetings in teaching groups that parents, teachers want to see these organizations in school, children in children's creativity centers, but there are no such centers in the village. We believe that this question is of an important nature and has some complexity. The SDPI faction shares the opinions of colleagues and their parents and believes that the problem of children’s, youth organizations should be studied and discussed in the relevant professional committees and ministries. We believe that the meaningful work of children’s organizations should be aimed at bringing children and adults together around useful and interesting things that help the world to know, to discover its own creative potential, to understand human values. There are different kinds of children's organizations in the state, there's Calinchata. "The Cossacks," "The Rays," "The Lights," "The Society of Pioneer Organizations." But there is an offer: At the state level, increase their role. In my colleagues ’ view, active legislation does not fully address these possibilities. And so the faction of SDPU asks teachers to discuss this problem with parents in pedagogical groups in parental congregations, to make suggestions to MPs so that, taking them into account, at the legislative level, we can improve, solve this problem of the activities of children’s and youth organizations, and solve one of the problems that my fellow voters are concerned about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, Yuri Klukkowski will be speaking out of two factions - the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc and our Ukraine. Then he has six minutes to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I have a statement to make for Victor Yushchenk's block. As the regime changes in Ukraine, the dirty war waged by the authorities against their people is gaining ever more violent forms. In October, this pressure gained unprecedented proportions, as if a flood of provocative stories in electronic media had broken down. And throughout the country, millions of counterfeit antichrist materials have been distributed from pre-prepared bases. On October 5, 2004, a group of national deputies discovered that the 56th Expocenter, the former GNI, which belongs to the State Administration, contained an enormous number of printed propaganda materials of provocative and slanderous nature aimed at embezzling the most popular popular candidate, Victor Yushchenk. As a result of a review of this composition, it revealed that at this time it contained about 150 tons of various printed products. Similar materials have already been discovered in various regions. They were stationed on trains at the direction of the leaders of the Crucifixion. The day before, they were discovered in the printery "New Printing." It's like posters, cards, stickers, newspapers, T-shirts. In doing so it should be noted that the stock is only left over because the bulk of the product has already been exported to different regions. We have a number of facts that show a similar presence in Donetsk, Lviv, Crimea, and other areas. Printed products were partly produced in Slovakia, as evidenced by the certificates available in the packages. T-shirts of an adjective nature were made in Hungary. However, there are no documents that testify to the legality and legal origin of all these materials, particularly customs declarations. When asked about the overheads for this product, the warehouse manager said, "What are the overheads? We're adults." In fact, the composition of the State Administration is used as a underground transshipment base for illegal tax and smuggling products. Most cards and stickers have no output, as required by law. In other printed materials, this data is falsified. Marked sticky printeries. Subtle circulation. So the stickers, which contain thousands of copies, are packed in two thousand packs, and these packages for each species have been found in the stock of more than 500. So millions of circulations are actually underestimated thousands of times. The estimated value of the materials found is hundreds of millions of dollars. And this is just a little bit of this, which is actually made. Citizens of Ukraine! Think of how much money this authority looks forward to getting out of your pockets if it is a thoughtless waste today! Among the printed materials in the warehouse were advertising materials supported by Yanukovich with an image, as it says, by the national deputy of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Raisa Bogatirov, which cannot be claimed. However, the distribution shown on the poster is underestimated only by an estimate of hundreds of times. The rest of the printed material is slanderous, aimed at promoting war and violence, fuelling ethnic enmity, threatening and calling for a breach of public order. Some of the printed materials are used for this purpose by Taras Shevchenk, a blasphemy and abusing of national symbols. The authors and subscribers of these materials show disrespect for other countries, especially Russia and the United States. Let us stress that the dissemination of such materials is prohibited by the Presidential Elections Act of Ukraine, and the availability of such calls in the candidate programmes is a reason for their refusal to register. The facts found contain signs of an entire range of criminal offences. In reviewing and describing the illegal materials available, there were several dozen Ukrainian national deputies representing various factions, both the former majority and the opposition, as well as candidates for the post of President of Ukraine Basiluk, Kozak, Omelchenko. This is a close alliance between the Russian defender Basiluk and the nationalist bander Kozak that both turned out to be free puppets of power. Members of the Central Electoral Commission were members: Vice - Chief of the Commission, Jaroslav Davidovich, and member of the Board, Marina Stavniczuk. However, the passive response of the representatives of the CLTC showed the helplessness of this highest electoral authority before such a massive violation of the law. Within five hours, the law enforcement authorities refused to respond to direct appeals by Ukrainian national deputies to internal affairs and to the prosecutor’s office. Their stubborn unwillingness to intervene testifies to the direct involvement of authorities in mass violations of legislation. Instead of protecting the law and the law, the leaders of our law enforcement officers have long covered up for him gross violators. The Victorian Yushchenk faction, like our allies in the electoral coalition, demands an immediate cessation of the dirty anti-legal methods of pre-election agitation. The unprecedentedness of its character and scope makes it necessary for the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council to take place in its entirety and to give an official assessment of this phenomenon. We invite international observers from all countries to get to know and understand the incredible brutal methods used by the opposing authorities to survive. We demand an immediate explanation at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Heads of State for the administration of matters, of the strong law enforcement structures regarding the criminal use of State institutions' bases for the storage and distribution of illegal materials. We demand immediate consideration of these issues at the exit meeting of the Central Electoral Commission, we demand a personal report to the Supreme Council of the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, on the persistent disregard of repeated appeals by Ukrainian MPs on crimes committed. We require the customs authorities to check the legality.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u21	Thank you. Give me this document, please. Yuri Bogdanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, it's time. 20 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u22	We demand a personal report to the Supreme Council of Silovnikov, we require checks from customs and state tax authorities, we are ready to submit to the Temporary Special Commission all available evidence, including photos and descriptions. And we say, in spite of all the power, this regime is doomed. People's candidate Victor Yushchenko will win. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we would like to see this as an official request to hear from the rapists and law enforcement authorities to report here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u23	Thank you. Please calm down! Mikola Petrovich is invited to speak from the "Trudova Ukraine" faction. Get ready, Reshniak. Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, please. What? What's the broadcast? Please unlock the broadcast. Dear colleagues, here comes Mikola Nightingale, open the broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u24	Santa's Nightingale. Authorized factions of Trudova Ukraine, 160 constituency, Sumska District, Deaf. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable voters, I hereby announce the statement made by the deputy faction of the "Trudova Ukraine" political party. In April 2004, the Supreme Council approved the Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads. For this law, the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the deputy faction, voted in favour of the political party "The Hard Ukraine". I would like to remind voters that the basic difference between this law and the previous one is the election of 1047 city, district, district councils and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for a proportional system, i.e. the deputies in the next election should be elected for election lists of candidates for deputies from political parties' organisations, election blocks of political parties in the multi-mandate district. By upholding this law, we first viewed it as an integral part of the reform of the political system of the State. National Labour Deputies have consistently advocated and advocated the need for a redistribution of powers, all the way from the central authorities to the local authorities. To that end, we have made some compromises. However, because of the destructive actions of individual MPs, the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine is largely blocked. The fate of political reform remains uncertain today. That is why the parliamentary faction of the Labour Ukraine political party decided to initiate amendments to the Ukrainian law on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village and village councils, city heads. We will insist on a return from the proportional system provided by law for the election of city deputies, district councils and district councils, members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the ordinary majority system, by which the electorates elect directly a deputy in a single-seat constituency. Such a step is also driven by the absence in many regions of actual active political party structures capable of taking full responsibility for addressing the socio-economic development problems of the area concerned today. Bills with corresponding changes developed by factions' deputies will be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u25	Yes, thank you, Mikola Petrovich. John Rishnjak from the Agrarian faction is invited to the presentation. Vassil Nadrag will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u26	Ivan Rishnyak, 162 constituency, Sumstina. Statement by the Ukrainian National Agrarian Party MP on the critical state of state radio broadcasting in Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The faction believes that although with great delay, today we need to pay attention to the unsatisfying position of the State Radio in Ukraine, which we believe is in critical condition and continues to shrink. The public sector in radio broadcasting declined from 100 percent in the 1980s to 3 percent today. Historically, the wire was the most widely used network that made public radio available to inform the population about the most important events in the country and the world. By the late 1980s, the wire network had reached every home, had an informational, educational, entertainment function, and was also a reliable means of informing citizens about real and extraordinary situations. In general, in the early 1990s, there were about 18 million wire stations in Ukraine, but gradually their network began to shrink rapidly and by the end of 2003 it was just a little over a third. For example, in the Winnitsky region since 1996, the number of wires has decreased almost six times, in Donetsk, 2.5, in Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovograd, Sumski, Hersonsk, and in Crimea, more than two times. At the same time, radio broadcasting in the long and medium waves is reduced year after year, and the shortwave in the very high frequency range is developing virtually only for the non-state radio sector. The various FM radios fill the information space with programs and information that only consumes part of the population -- young people. In addition, they do not fully cover the territory of Ukraine. Thus, the State is virtually devoid of information. The problem of telephony, particularly in rural areas, is far from better. Lack of telephone communication is often a major problem in providing qualified timely assistance in cases of tragic events that sometimes lead to even human executions. The topic for today is also the creation of new telephone stations in rural areas. So the Ukrainian People's Agrarian Party MP is asking the Ukrainian government to include in the 2005 budget the cost of building new telephone stations, restoring public radio, returning to the population the opportunity to hear the voice of Ukraine's national radio. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u27	Thank you. The word has the national MP Nadrag, the MP's group "Soyuz." He'll be followed by Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u28	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk Region, Alliance of Deputies. As a major, I conduct the reception of citizens very often and naturally, as required by this law and human conscience. I must tell you that in the wake of the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine and the 60th anniversary of the victory in the Great Homeland War, a number of issues remain that have not been resolved and are not settled on issues related to the veterans of the Great Homeland War. One of them I would like to speak to today because, when discussing with my colleagues the MPs from our Alliance Group, he found that the problem was common and such treatments and statements existed to them. They relate to the treatments of widows of dead or dead veterans of the Great Homeland War. And there is one topic that I would like to speak out today, so to speak. First. According to Presidential Decree No. 13929/99 of 14.10.99 of 14.10.99 on the award of the President of Ukraine to veterans of the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945, in 1999 the military committees compiled lists of persons who, for their military merit in the Great Homeland War, were entitled to the award of the Orders of Bogdan Hmelnick, "For Courage", the Medal of the Fatherland Defender. Regrettably, at the time, the State budget did not have funds for this payment. These medals were paid and, accordingly, the awards were deferred. Accordingly, a number of veterans of the Great Homeland War did not receive the Order of Bogdan Hmelnicki, “For Courage” and the Medal of Homeland Defender. During that time, since 1999, a significant number of veterans of the Great Homeland War, who were to be rewarded, have died. To date, it has been asked by the widows that, because the husbands had the right and the President's decree had to receive these war prizes, whether they had the right to receive these awards from a family who had died a veteran, whether the family had the right to receive not only a dead veteran who had not been listed but also the documents of a warlord who had the right to the award. Regrettably, because this issue is not resolved, a number of issues relating to the establishment of a special merit pension before Ukraine cannot be addressed. I think that this problem needs to be resolved by the 60th anniversary of the victory, regardless of whether the veteran or his family receives the award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u29	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u30	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In an environment of unprecedented administrative activity, the illegal formation of electoral commissions, the anti-constitutional involvement of the power structures of the state in the electoral campaign, the ruling regime seeks to ensure the victory of the candidate from Kuchma in the presidential elections. The crowning number of the presidential race of the overpowered candidate was the increase in wages and pension payments. We socialists, consistently and persistently seeking social justice for the people of work, would welcome such a decision by the government, it would have been a long time ago, but today we can't help but say that this step is essentially populist, it's a fiction for the election period. Even now, these supplements and supplements look like taxes, being eaten by galloping food prices. Today, prices for a number of products, such as gasoline and other energy products, are artificially held back. But it's only until the election. According to Prime Minister’s assurance, the price of the vacchanalia covers even higher pensions and salaries. The government says that pension supplements and payments do not come from the budget but from additional printed paper money. Experts say that as early as February and March 2005, if such an issue price policy continues, the bracelet will drop twice, then all the payments today will become a blank sound, and the people will have to work hard again. Alexander Moroz proposes a minimum pension of 400 dollars, but by law, not by means of supplementary mechanisms. The government's 2005 draft budget does not provide any basis for optimism. Thus, the government says that the following year, expenditures will increase by 2.5 to 5. That's right. But compared to the year 2000, it's interesting why not in 1913, and actually it's going to be one third more in this area than it is now. So all the higher costs and salaries for 2004 are printed and only. Nothing is foreseen to alleviate the drug problem, generally with medicine, the maintenance of science, and education. Capital repairs are not solved. Teachers, physicians, and cultural workers do not even pay the minimum wage. And it's all a lie around. And this is only necessary for those who want to remain in power today. Socialists call, and the regime cannot be allowed to continue robbing the state and the people. You have to stop the dirty technology, call for help, or bring a candidate to power from Kuchma, or you have to break the election to achieve the same goal. Democratic forces must stand on the watch of Ukraine, reject all that divides us, disunite us, unite for the one purpose of conquering crime, defeating the clans, giving our people freedom and the right to a worthy human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the faction's over. National MP Gregory Omelchenko demands that a statement be made in connection with a dissatisfaction with an answer to a parliamentary request. In accordance with the Rules, Gregory Omelchenko has the right to speak. Three minutes, please. One question at a time. We can't all do that. One at a time. Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u32	Gregory Omelchenko, Yulia faction Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine personally sent two questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Yanukovic, requiring that certified copies of documents on his crimes and other crimes committed. On September 7th, in your presence, I personally gave Prime Minister Janukovich the pre-deputy petitions for information and copies of documents on past crimes. Viktor Fedorovich, in flagrant violation of current legislation, has so far failed to respond to parliamentary appeals or to parliamentary requests. This leads us to conclude that Viktor Janukovic misuses authority, a position of service in his personal interest, and does not meet the legal requirements of the national MP, or willfully obstruct his activity. Under such circumstances, his actions show signs of crimes under article 361, 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Another conclusion is that after being punished at the places where Janukovic was deprived of his will, he was not on the path of correction and remained a socially dangerous person who should be isolated from society. Once again, I've got enough solid information, and now it's credible that Mr. Yanukovic was convicted of robbery for the first time, and for the second time for the average severity of bodily harm, and on both occasions he was sentenced to imprisonment in the form of deprivation of liberty. After the punishment, Yanukovic again committed a serious crime and brutally beaten and raped a woman but was redeemed from the victim, and the criminal case was closed. Militia materials indicate that Yanukovic organized a gang of bandits who were angry in Yenokieva and in the evenings were afraid to enter the driveways of houses, snatched women, veterans of war, and the work of a bag of three carbants from the ears of girls with a earring worth 10 carbs. Later, when he was a director of a car company, he was called to criminal responsibility for the theft of state property on a special scale. At the time, the Penal Code provided for the penalty of death. But he was rescued from punishment by former Ukrainian national deputy airman George Bank. Now it is clear to all why Janukovic does not answer the MP’s questions. Because he fears that the electorate will know all the truth about his crimes, that in the past he was a robber, a thief, a rapist. and his hands in blood from the brutal beating of people, and under such circumstances he will never be chosen by the President of Ukraine. Today, there will be a further request to the Attorney General for a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, speak from factions. Gavrish, please, microphone. Factions finished speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! What we have just heard from the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Grigory Omelchenka's speech is that the Supreme Council is constantly turning into a political tribunal over its opponents. The unproven charges at the address of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the candidate for Presidents of Yanuković testify once again that a criminal offence is actually committed on this stand. I urge all national deputies to stop such provocations and not turn the Supreme Council into a court of justice over others, and I remind them that. Third. The President's government can't intervene in the electoral process. In protesting again, I would like to refer to the Ukrainian Region Party, which put this candidate out to make the personal principle of political statement. Since what has now taken place in the rostrum shows once again that the Supreme Council has fallen to the limit when we begin the process of military political barricades. I think they're similar.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Factions finished speaking. I would ask the National Deputies to be mutually tolerant in order to preserve the Supreme Council and not to stir the mood of opposition in our society. Dear colleagues, regarding the suggestions made in the speeches of the national deputies when making statements, information, and messages. National MP Sulkovsky insists on behalf of the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" on hearing information from the Temporary Special Commission, which is headed by the investigating commission, sorry, which is headed by a colleague of Sevkovic. When the commission is ready, we'll hear the question. One minute! I'm asking you to calm down. The other one. In his speech, Yuri Klukkowski made the following demands: to consider the issue of visual agitation on a temporary special commission, to hold a CEC exit meeting at a site where visual atimating material has been detected, to hear a report from law enforcement officials on the practice of producing and distributing visual agitation. In this regard, dear colleagues, I would like to ask us to organize our work in this way. I'm going to ask Vitali Oluik as deputy head of the temporary special commission, secretary of the commission of Melniczuk Michael, well, and one of the other members of the commission, such as Paul Rybikin, to prepare for the committee's consideration the issue of compliance with legislation in part of the production and distribution of visual agitation. The general question is, since the commission can deal with the issue of monitoring legislation, including examining all of these facts, so that we don't upset negative attitudes in our society, so that we can get all of these processes into the right bank. Please arrange an appropriate job. As far as we're concerned, our honourable colleagues, our direct request to the MPs, we have almost 100 of them, we're out of time -- how are we going to proceed? In addition, we have a statement of two factions: "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" -- 30 minutes for a break. Well, what's the break? Let's maybe do that: three minutes, what you wanted to say, and we'll keep working. Let's work, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u36	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! After more than a decade of abuse of Ukraine and its people, the current criminal regime is finally losing power in the country. Of course, they lost that authority in less than a day. They lost her in the Taroshan forest when they killed Georgia Gongadze. They lost it on the Kiev-Dnipropetrovsk route when they killed Viacheslav Crnovola. They lost it when they tried to poison the people's candidate to the presidents. Yesterday, a bunch of bankrupt politicians called on Victor Yushchenk to withdraw his candidacy from the presidential election. What is behind this shameful appeal? Not by self - confidence or by lack of faith in his own victory, but by the endless, rattling fear of the irreversibility of losing power, the loss of control of the country. They don't feel it anymore. They already feel the inexorable judgment of history, and that's why they're going into the last mental attack. Look closely at what is happening in the country today! At the invitation of the ruling clans, the hired killers arrive in Kiev. Political stories on a controlled TV clan appear to be shaped by mentally ill people. In Donetsk, in the middle of the day, people are stolen, beaten and raped just because they don't want the state to be ruled by recidivist criminals. Clearly, all of this is the pre - death agony of criminal power. The country is in fact undirected today. The police, the Security Service, the prosecutor’s office, have left the criminals and thieves to be caught because the rulers of their institutions and offices have become criminals and thieves. Where is the Attorney General today? He's setting up new provocations abroad against a national candidate. Where is the Minister of the Interior or the head of the Kiev Police today? They are engaged in the formation of terrorist groups to fight the opposition. Where, after all, is the Security Service headed? They protect the State Department of Affairs, the President's Administration, where tons of dirt are stored on Victor Andryovich Yushchenka. Only the head of his administration, who had just arrived from a nearby country, tried to obtain a sanction for an anti-government facility in Ukraine, remained with the incapacitated President of the country. The government has completely lost control of the country. Ukraine has narrowed down to the scale of the government's houses and foreign accounts that they want to keep at any cost. But what does such authority expect? What victory can she talk about? What ratings can save it if the only chicken egg has placed the last dot in the history of New Ukraine’s totalitarianism. But do you hope to gain victory over pain as a 40 million people? You're not scary anymore, you're funny and you're pathetic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you again that we now have 96 requests. Since we have run out of time, I would like to draw attention to the motion for a vote to now consider the parliamentary questions without a rule. [[10:53:43]] For 232 Decision taken. Be patient, I'll read the questions. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Hennadia Astrov-Sumilova to the President of Ukraine for violating the Presidential Decree on measures to improve the efficiency of coal governance and its development in the creation of the state-owned company "Luhansk Coal Company" I am voting in favour of the request. [[10:54:24]] For-164 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:54:47]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Victor BALOGA and John MIHOVIC to the President of Ukraine for gross violations of existing legislation, abuse of office, and corruption by individual executives. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:55:18]] For 211 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:55:41]] For 228 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine regarding the 50th anniversary of the creation of the National Artist of Ukraine, the Academy, the Laureate of the National Award of the Ukraine Valentin Znoba. [[Caterinchuk, onopenko. Total 7 National Deputies]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:56:19]] For 231 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:56:40]] For 228 Decision taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine on corruption and violations of current legislation by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. [[MIGOVICH, BALOGA, VERNIGORA]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:57:08]] For 207 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:57:30.]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Vladimir PETREN to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for failing to comply with the U.S. Attorney -General’s orders to investigate the murder of Mikola Nadjárny in Sumskih. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the illegal exclusion of part of the privatized land of private agriculture in the village of Kosovščina Sumsko oblast. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the gasification of the Hlybodar housing plant of the town-type Chernikhs of the Žitomir region. Leonidas GADIA to Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the allocation of funds for the gasification of the village of Kostinci in the Blackwater region. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the proposals for the Prime Minister to grant state language status in Ukraine to all languages of the world, including Esperante and Latin, regarding the conclusion of an agreement with all countries of the world on dual citizenship, on the recognition of the current Prime Minister of the status of citizen of all States, and his level of ownership of the Ukrainian language should be considered sufficient for all Ukrainian civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this matter more seriously. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Decree No.276 “On the implementation of article 49 of the Ukrainian Law on the 2004 State Budget for Ukraine on the allocation of buses and computer complexes for schools of the 203 constituency. Petra SABASUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide the territory of Zaporozhye and Zaporez Region for the resettlement of Chechen refugees. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for additional funding from the 2005 State Budget for the local budgets of the Kyiv region. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 5 July 2004 “On measures to ensure compliance with legislation in the field of drug use”. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the execution of the Ukrainian Presidential Order of September 10, 2004 on the suspension of the restructuring of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's public enterprises and the lifting of the Ukrainian Defence Minister's order of May 30, 2004, No. 238. Vassila NARAVIA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extraordinary situation that has arisen with the preparation of the Luhanska Housing Fund for work during the winter. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of the theft of property by the head of the school No. 10 of the city of Kirovgrad and the obstruction of the activity of the free trade. Petra CIBENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal creation of the state-owned company “Lugansk Coal Company”. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the attempt by the President of Ukraine to evict the National Academy of Sciences from the premises of the National Institute of Sociology and to transfer the house to the Office of the President of Ukraine for the reception of citizens. [[SULGA, SIRENKO, TELK, AND OTHERS Total 37 deputies]] Mr. Stanislawa Kosinova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the legal rights of students and students of Ukraine to take a business trip in the transport sector. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On urgent measures to pay off arrears from wages” at the Hartzi machine factory. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen at the Kirovgrad Air Academy with the passing of flight practice. Mr. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment of salaries to former employees of the Starosinava Sugar Plant of the Hmelnicka District. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-refundation of arrears from salary to former aircrews of the utility airport Čerkasa. WALLERY OF THE LEBEDIUM to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the lack of proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the search for non-budgetary sources of return to citizens of monetary savings and the payment of government securities. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the completion of the pedestrian bridge in the village of Velika Lepeticha Hersson. Alexander FELDMAN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to apply the benefits to the parents of the deceased military servicemen. Mr Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General for the violation of the rights and freedoms of children with disabilities from childhood, the inhabitants of the city of Rubižne Donetsk. WALLERY OF THE LEBEDIV to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the increase of Ukraine’s government debt by the Cabinet of Ministers to 14 billion.671 million. This is due to borrowing from international financial institutions. Gennady RUDENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance on the problems of the formation of the income portion of the local budgets of the Zinkov region of Poltava. Omelana PARUBKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for amending the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. Alexander BONDARCHUK to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko for failure to carry out his orders from January 15 and May 25, 2004 concerning violations of the land legislation by the Gnydin Rural Council of the Kyiv Region of Boripil in the submission of documents for the privatization of the land area, illegal actions of the Gnydin Rural Head. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights of land and property owners, on the abuse of the service position of heads of agricultural society with limited responsibility for “Iscrene” in the district of Czerka. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General for delaying the investigation of a criminal case involving abuse by internal affairs officials. LeonidaS CERNOVECH to the Attorney General for the wrongful actions of the official of the National Bank, Alexander Schlapak. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General for illegal logging in the village of Znob Novgorodsk and the surrounding villages of the Mid-Bud region of Suma. Roman ZVARIČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the attack of eggs and other hard objects on Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of the inhabitants of the village of Abazovka in the Poltava region during the privatization of the land. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney-General on the abuse of office, violation of the current Ukrainian legislation on rent, land and property use, the Director-General of the private agricultural enterprise Avangarde, in the region of Mikolai. The U.S. Attorney - General of Ukraine has been abused by Alexander BARANIVS regarding the use of prosecutorial measures against perpetrators of illegal acts. Mr. Melniczuk, an official of the National Bank. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General of Ukraine for illegal custody in the Irpine City Police Department of Journalist Alexander Bonja. The branch of the Chief Prosecutor - General of Ukraine for delaying the criminal responsibility of a teacher who caused bodily harm to a minor child. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of information on the abuse of office by Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine. Ivan VASUNIKA and Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the kidnapping and unlawful deprivation of the will of the leader of the “Student’s Wave” initiative, Alexander Batrak and his sister. Alexander GODIMI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Forestry of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the removal of Brukhovecka village council from the State Fund of Ukraine and the transfer to a lease of private structures of 19 hectares of forest in the first group. [[with the right to ransom]] Andrija POLITA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the misconduct of police officers of Sevastopol City Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the status of the investigation of a number of criminal cases in the city of Priluka Chernigiv district. [[TARASJUK, KOVAL, KOSTINJUK, AND OTHERS. Total 7 deputies]] Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI and Ms. Valerija Assadchev to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the criminal offence of abuse of power and official power and overrule of authority and official authority by the Rector of the National Technical University of Poltava. Vladimir NOVAK to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the theft of state property in the Hmelnick garrison office building No. 36. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inaction of officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice. Stepan BULBI to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the appeal of residents of the village of Orlik Kobeljak district of Poltava in connection with the illegal use of the budget allocated for the gasification of the village. Mr. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the prosecutorial supervision of the conduct of investigations in the Odessa region. Victor BALOGI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the formal reaction of the prosecutor of the Zakartat region to the parliamentary appeal for the protection of constitutional and civil rights of the association with limited responsibility of “Partner”. YEUGENA HYRNIKA and MIKIRKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the abuse of office and for the corruption of the management of fire safety in the Zakarpatsk region. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for environmental security in the Odessa region. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation in the transfer of the land of the park area of the Bologna district of Kiev. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Cherkas region when considering a claim made by a citizen of Pridjjeck. Mr Grigori OMELČENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the criminal case against Prime Minister of Ukraine, candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Janukovič W.F. and to hold him criminally responsible for the abuse of power, duty, obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy, deliberate failure to make copies of judicial decisions, other documents on past crimes and crimes committed by him. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ignoring the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office's requests and appeals to the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the need for a procurator's review of the circumstances of the privatisation of the Open Shareholder Association “Cruvoristal” and the legality of the origin of the funds for which a public stock package was purchased. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations on the Elimination of Disparities in the Pension Insurance of Civil Defence Officers and Ukrainian Armed Forces Soldiers Released in 2004. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, on violations of the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Renting during the transfer to the lease of the cargo and transport company Donetskwugil. Roman ZVARIČA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, the chief physician of the Ivano-Frankov Regional Clinic for information on the assassination of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the legality of being the Rector of the University of Poltava and the state of scientific and educational work at the university. [[The destroyer?]] Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs for delaying the investigation of a criminal case involving a traffic accident. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Ministry of Defence on the delay in demobilization of military service personnel with a view to ensuring a controlled vote in the military. Igor JUCHNOVIH to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on Environmental Safety of the Polisintez factory in the Premyslánsk district of Lviv. Vladimir YAVORIYSKI to the Ministry of Health for the unprecedented administrative pressure of the chief physician of the Yavori district hospital in the area of Lviv for medical personnel on the mandatory support of presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovic, expressed in threats of dismissal, criminal orders to carry out campaigning and anticonstitutional statements that the President will under any circumstances be the current acting Prime Minister. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for sending a note of protest to the Russian Federation for the provocative actions of the Chief Military Prosecutor of the Russian Federation concerning the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, who are of a political nature and who discredit both the Supreme Council and Ukraine in the eyes of the World Society. [[JAVORIAN, GAVRILUK, TRUTH, KOSIOV]] Paul SILCHANA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the pogrom of the Children's newspaper “Zurawlik” in the city of Kharkiv, made by police officers and the special unit “Berkut”. Ms Anatolia LOVINA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the question of the succession of decommissioned central executive authorities. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the failure of the executive service of the Chigirin district of Cherkas region to comply with the court’s decision. Anatholic to the Ministry of Health regarding disability problems for people who have lost their jobs. Vladimir BONDARENKA and Boris BESPAL to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities on energy standards for heating housing and household needs. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the fact that there is no payment of funds to the state budget by the management of the Avangarda agro-firm of the region of Yelanec of Mikolaiwi region for the lease of land for the agricultural purpose of the state reserve and the non-neededed rations. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures for the purposeless use of budgetary resources by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine as a result of violations of the requirements of the law, the avoidance of execution of the court decision and the contract for the production of state registration plates for transport vehicles. MICHAYLA VOLINZA TO the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the violation of the terms of the appeal. Stepan HMARI to the Head of the Kyiv Economic Court for the Elimination of Violations of Economic and Procedural Legislation and the provision of information on the outcome of the examination of the application in the case concerning the sale of the public shareholding package of the open shareholders’ association “Crioristal”. Jury of ARTEMENKA to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the State Inspectorate for Price Control of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine, on the return of surplus funds paid to the population for thermal energy. Victor BALOGA and John MIHOVIĆA to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the improvement of the conditions of military service, the housing and housing conditions of the border guards of the flag, located in the “Shakhta” ceremony near the city of Uzhgrad. BORIS OF THE President of Ukraine, head of Administration, on the issue of the succession of decommissioned central executive bodies. OXANI BILOSIR to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the misconduct of the head of the Suma District State Administration, his deputy and representatives of law enforcement authorities regarding the management of the private agricultural enterprise “Guarant”. GEORGIA BUYKA to the Head of the Kyiv District Court of Judges of the General Court, the Head of the Council of Judges of Kiev, the Head of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, for violations of Ukrainian law by judges of the Pecher District Court. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the promotion of electoral areas in places where Ukrainian citizens live in Sacramento, Portland and Seattle, at the request of Ukrainian citizens, voters who live or work in these cities. [[The fish, the red, and the others. Total 5 deputies]] Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the violation of the legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine as the head of the territorial election committee of the constituency No. 50 in the city of Jenakiyev. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the assignment of the property to the citizen of Balibuk for maintenance. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Head of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region for the improper execution by the Head of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kondratiev’s parliamentary inquiry into the court’s decisions concerning the former courts of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. GEORGE BUIKE to the Head of the District. The Kyiv District Commission of Judges of the General Court for the non-admission of violations of the constitutional rights of citizens. Vladimir JAVORIJOVSKI AND MIKOLI POLISTA to the Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the evaluation of the hysterical and provocative speech at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 24 September of the Ukrainian faction “Region of Ukraine” Alexander Colonyari in connection with the events in Johno-Franksky, in which the information was publicly false, there were threats aimed at fuelling international hostility, the opposition of various regions of Ukraine and which were the beginning of a shameful clown. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the Government of the Open Shareholders Association “The State Savings Bank of Ukraine” on the issue of funds for the operation to the citizens of Vasilko at her own expense. Yes. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the systematic perennial violation of Chernobyl legislation by the local and central executive authorities in part of the extra-secondary granting of housing to the blinded Chernobyl invalid Cimbalis Anastasia Mikhailni of the city of Irshansk Zitomir Region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the callous attitude of the local social protection authorities towards the disabled person of Kravczuk's first group from Kiev. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the obstacles to entrepreneurial activity and the removal of private entrepreneur Soloy’s office and the verification of the legality of the criminal offence of interference with electricity networks. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the work after the completion of the construction of the Techei Bedevla-Teresla gas pipeline and the search and development of the design of a gas pipeline with high pressure from Bedevla-Solotvino. Maria MARKUS to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister for the financing of the unfinished construction of the Solotvina Regional Allergy Hospital. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of the status of the mountain settlement of the villages of Central Vodina and Good Rakhiv district of Zakarpat. Maria MARKUS to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the repair of an emergency residence in the village of the city type Teresla on the street of Popovič, number 46 of the Tajov district of Zakarpat. Mikoli Sherschun to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the unsatisfying condition of transporting disabled persons in the Great Homeland War to the region of Bresznil, Kostopil, and Sarnin. Gregory OMELČENA to the head of the Donetsk district’s city court for the immediate sentencing of the court and other court decisions regarding the former prime minister’s courts. Thus, esteemed colleagues, 98 questions were put out. The faction "Our Ukraine" - 38, the Communist faction - 29, the faction "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, the faction "Social Democratic Party of Ukraine" - 2, "One Ukraine" - no, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "Trud Ukraine" - 3, "National Agrarian Party - 1, "Socialist Party - 10, "Timoshenko" - 8, "Soyuz" - 2, "NDP", "Industry" - 1, "No" - 1, "No" - 1. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I hereby announce the withdrawal from the faction of the People's Agrarian Party of Ukraine of Victor Slauti and its membership in the faction of "Ukraine". A draft of the Amnesty Law is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5629, 5629-1. Dear colleagues, this is the order of consideration proposed by the profile committee. For reporters up to five minutes, the answers to questions are up to five minutes. From the committee. I don't see who's speaking from the committee. There's no committee here. Then I would ask the committee to prepare a position. And the discussion is in 15 minutes. Is there no objection? Let's move on to the question. School Andriy Vasilovich is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u38	Thank you. School Andrews, a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, head of the Committee of Law Enforcement. For one thing, I can report the committee's decision. The committee took a decision, a decision by the Committee on Admission on the basis of the Amnesty Act, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, School Andriy Vasilovich. Registration number 5629. To entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement with further work and so forth. I mean, first reading. And I propose here to the people's deputies present in the first reading to adopt the Amnesty Law, which is the author of which I am. It was in principle made according to the system of similarity of the previous Amnesty Law, of which I was also the author. And here it's made by analogy. It is a clear, clear, transparent law that allows those who are punished for minor crimes or for crimes that do not involve relapse or are not serious to expect amnesty. Amnesty warnings are enough; they are presented in separate paragraphs and articles. And I would like to make clear that there are some differences between the government and my bill. This is primarily the case with the definition of diseases by which prisoners can be amnesty. The government law followed the principle of listing all those diseases that could be amnesty with names there, with classifications and so forth. In my law, this is done universally, that is, absolutely and clearly, that all diseases that are incompatible with being imprisoned in places of deprivation are grounds for amnesty. And they're listed, all the over-the-counter cases in the laws that operate in Ukraine, both Ukrainian and international. Next. Regrettably, the Amnesty Law includes amnesty rapists, or perpetrators of rape. I'm a firm opponent in the fact that under any circumstances this category of prisoners is amnesty because, in principle, you know, excuse for such crimes, I don't think there is. What was critical of the government: in my bill is the possibility of amnesty for those who did not commit crimes intentionally, i.e. walking in a sober, healthy state and so forth without aggravating circumstances and so on, because crimes that were not committed intentionally, they have the right to be amnesty because of half the punishment. I think it's totally humane, clearly and clearly, because the crimes committed willfully, they don't fall within my scope, either by government or by any other amnesty, because the person who committed it did it in an orderly manner, with good will and with absolutely understandable intentions and consequences, which came after this crime was committed. That's why I think it's in principle. Next. I'm going to say, in government law, they even fall under amnesty, which is completely unclear to me and to the committee members who are even children's rapists. That is, the person who raped the child can count on amnesty. No, it's been there a long time. There's got to be a deadline. But even a concept is an inhumane attitude just to the Amnesty Law itself. The amnesty law is not permissive, amnesty is not indulgence, amnesty is just a permit to reduce the punishment of those who have the opportunity to use this Law and not commit serious crimes, not commit crimes against a person, not commit those crimes on purpose. These are the main general differences from. Also the crimes of the so-called "little weight." I'm proposing to the honourable colleagues to support the bill, to agree with the profile committee's point of view, since this is where I was supposed to report my head, but now, you know what the situation is in Ukraine: there is always some counterfeit illegal anti-government product being printed there. So the committee that I have the honour of working with is now working very hard to give a legal assessment of the events that are currently taking place, the illegal events that are taking place in Ukraine. In fact, I took the liberty of reporting to the committee as well. I think we need to give ourselves a clear and clear answer right now that in this situation we're not releasing anyone from punishment, we're just giving people who have committed minor crimes an amnesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u39	Questions, dear fellows, are there? Please sign up for questions. We agreed for five minutes. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the questions. Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u40	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. First of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address you: in the Odessa region today the second broadcast is shut down, this is done consciously. Please give instructions on the cessation of this brutal violation of the law. Next, the question to the reporter: do you think that the actions of those who are exposed tonight, who have prepared such calls, will fall under your amnesty, such posters with the cry "You are ready for civil war," which fall under the criminal code, because according to your project, they are, in fact, subject to amnesty? I mean, both Janukovic and everyone behind this printing and behind the smuggling that's been missed because the customs dropped these goods. Or from abroad. They're falling. People are convicted of rape, torture, and so forth. Do you want to throw this off the project in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Carmazin! You've just confused two bills: you've confused a government bill, where, in fact, amnesty people are convicted of rape, and rapists, in my law don't fall under the amnesty of either persons or persons who committed State crimes. Because the burning of racial, national, religious intolerance, the outbreak of civil war in Ukraine is punishable as a serious crime. And this crime does not fall under the amnesty, the author of which is me, the Amnesty Law. So let me stress: We just confused two laws. I categorically rejected and rejected attempts in government law to extend the amnesty of these persons, who in principle, as I am, would be punished as a minimum with life imprisonment. I mean both the rapists and the child rapists and the fires of war, which, in principle, are now using the inadequacy of Ukrainian laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u42	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u43	Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozska oblast, 81 district. Andrej Vasilevich, amnesty in itself, of course, is a necessary and noble cause, and we must help people to throw away the stigma they often put on him for life so that he can become a normal person in our society. But in every amnesty, and we know it, there's some sort of evaluation that lets go from unrepentant and retaliatory. Does your law ensure that such people do not fall under this amnesty so that they do not discredit the noble idea of amnesty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u44	Thank you so much for asking. I'll start with the last one. The renaissances of the Amnesty Law, neither in this nor in my previous law, were subject to amnesty. So the person who's repeatedly attracted to and convicted of an article is not amnesty, because, in principle, it could be spread on it or not distributed amnesty when they're attracted to it for the first time. This is the absolute foundation of every amnesty. And here, for me, it's a completely humane act. On the other hand, if there are criminals who have not repented of what they have done, in principle, to condemn a person, repentance does not provide either a mild - tempered or aglow. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And those who have not repented do not claim amnesty simply automatically because their being in places of deprivation does not give rise to a court’s appeal that these persons be amnesty. I mean, these people are basically the ones that don't have a normal way of life for us, and amnesty for them is a demeaning act of their so-called criminal biography. Therefore, they do not turn to them alone, nor do courts or places of detention. And lawyers don't ask for it. There have been no instances of amnesty, let's say there were no ingrained criminals, and I don't think there will ever be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u45	Novak, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u46	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Andrey Vasilovich, I've met with your project and I've met with the project that the Cabinet of Ministers is bringing, and I want to say that there are a number of positive points that deserve to really vote for these projects. But to some extent, they complement each other. Don't you think it would be appropriate to work on both projects and develop, well, the only such bill that would regulate relations when applying amnesty in Ukraine in 2004? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u47	Thank you so much for asking. I agree with you that there are many positives, I said only differences, but there are positives in the bill to the government. I'm ready to put these two bills together. But I'd like to listen. I want you to listen to the committee's opinion. This proposal consists of two points: to take the basis of my bill and to entrust the committee with the task of working both out and second reading to propose a universal law to take the best of my best, best of a government bill, so that we can actually give a positive and clear amnesty law in 2004. [[And this is the right of the Supreme Council.]] I'd like to make sure that in the future it just improves and doesn't make any special changes, because believe me, it's universal in application. So once again, I urge only the first reading so that the committee and all the interested people in the department can work together on a second reading bill so that you and I can vote with all the positives of the second bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u48	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Microphone, please, Calinchuka. Kalinczuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u49	Kalinczuk, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Odeschina I have a question for you, Your Honor. Article 1 of the bill proposes that the punishment of convicted persons for serious crimes committed by indiscretions that have not yet passed half the prescribed term of punishment, that is, in fact, immediately after the sentence. Experts estimate that this amounts to a threefold punishment, punishment, correction of convicted persons, and prevention of new crimes, both for convicted persons and others, as defined by the Criminal Code. How do you appreciate that? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. I've already said that in my speech. This refers to crimes committed by indiscretion, that is, by no means. What is a serious crime committed by indiscretion? It's an invasion. You know how we have raids, like on a pedestrian, or a car accident that has led to human casualties, how they are punished, what the corresponding norms are in this respect. If it has been proved that a crime has been committed unintentionally, recklessly, this person is entitled to a humane attitude toward himself, believe me. Because there are a lot of points where the faults of both sides are virtually the same, that is, the one who was driving and the one who was crossing the road; or the one who was driving on one mode of transport and the one who was driving on another. Very often there are pervasions in the classification and interpretation of this law. So this is a proposition. I agree, if it's the Supreme Council's will, we can get it cleaned up on second reading. But, I'm still saying, the proposal is completely humane, it touches a very narrow spectrum, it doesn't touch serious crimes committed intentionally against a person and so on, it's reckless. Next. We have some cases in businesses where extremes are found, as always, by whom? Director. Or who? An accountant who didn’t know what was going on at the company, either in his sleep or in his spirit. Therefore, where he is clearly qualified by the court, the court claims that the crime is committed by indiscretion. Only then can a narrow group of people count again on amnesty applications.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u51	Yes, thank you. Andrew Vasilovich, time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u53	I invite you to report to the Head of State Department on the execution of the sentences of Ljovčin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Competing People’s Deputies! The draft Amnesty Law was drafted in accordance with article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill is prepared to take account of the provisions of the Basic Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine, the new Criminal Code, legal technology and practice of amnesty. It is based on the humane principles of our nation. Amnesty is primarily extended to the most vulnerable and socially vulnerable categories of convicts. The draft Law consists of 17 articles, of which the first 6 define the order and conditions of applying the amnesty. In particular, there are categories of people who are most socially vulnerable, they are minors, those who have minors or children with disabilities, pregnant women, the elderly, the disabled first, the second group, and others. In addition, women who have been convicted of unsuspecting crimes will be amnesty if they have served more than a third of the sentence, others convicted if they have served more than half of the sentence. The article provides for the release of military personnel from disciplinary battalions. In addition, the sentence is provided for the convicts. Article 6 refers to the closure of criminal cases in the conduct of law enforcement agencies. examined by the courts. The law defines the list of persons, this article 7 on whom amnesty does not extend, namely to convicted persons who committed particularly serious crimes: banditry, robbery, willful murder, rape, I emphasize this, Mr. School said that rape, so we insist on liberation, there is no such thing, as well as those who committed crimes in the course of punishment or trial, have repeatedly been convicted of committing serious crimes and for whom amnesty or pardon has been applied in the last 11 years. Other articles define the order of execution. In particular, it is stated that the law is being enforced in courts, but they cannot apply it if the accused or convicted person denies it. The draft law provides for the obligation of local executives to ensure timely counting of amnesty workers and household and work arrangements, including minors. Heading to special boarding homes for disabled people and disabled elderly people who do not have relatives who could take them for their maintenance. The adoption of the law does not provide for additional expenses. An analysis of the project and the experience of previous years that amnesty is not going to complicate the country’s criminogenic situation and have no negative consequences. The draft law is in agreement with the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Administration, the Security Service and the Ministry of Justice. The bill is considered on the Committees of the Supreme Council. The Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and the General Scientific and Scientific Administration were approved and recommended for adoption as a basis in the first reading. In view of the above, I ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the question is to the head of the State Department. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs. Let's see what you got. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, your question, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u56	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkla, Viktor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, I have a question like this. I will be speaking, and my assessment of these two bills will be. I'm interested in yours. You represent a government project. So I have a question like a professional, a deep professional, which I deeply respect, I emphasize. What is the more humane or governmental law, or the one who did school, or the one who got Yanukovich released from prison? So what's the softer, the more humane? It's just very important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u57	I would like to point out, Your Honor, that all the law and the one that gave School, if you've noticed that it stands on it, that it was adopted last year. This law was passed last year. And that bill that we've submitted is based on the basic law that was passed in this Supreme Council. So let's say we expand the release we can't. What's defined by the basic law, that's what it is. If there were some comments by national deputies about, say, some of the crimes involved, it would have to be included and not released. This is the right of national deputies. And you can bring your comments to the article of the seventh. But the seventh article defines 49 crimes. This is almost, if you take, the seventh part of the Criminal Code, a particular part of which is not released. So I think that the bill that I'm introducing is humane.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u58	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovsky Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Vladimir Anatolyevich, I have two questions for you. First. Some hotheads at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union were often referred to as negative that many were condemned in the Union. Please tell me, what is the current number of citizens who are being punished? And what's the corresponding tendency to increase or decrease? And next. Articles 5 and 13 of the draft Law use the terms "laboratory colonies, settlements" and "laboratory colonies" which do not exist in the existing Criminal Enforcement Code? Is this not a legal colossal? Will it not be a legal coalition in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u60	I've already said that the project that was reported before is actually a law last year, and it didn't take into account the innovations that took place in our country. Let's say it was adopted last year, it came in from January 1st, it became a Code of Criminal Enforcement. Of course, even terminology would have to be applied. There is a law adopted on social adaptation of persons released from places of deprivation. We've taken him into account in our bill, too, and there's no such thing. It's about the trend. So I'll tell you that over the last three years, three and a half years, the number of convicts has dropped by 16 percent, including investigative isolations by 16.5. I refer to it as the Criminal Code. It's a progressive phenomenon, there's a unlocked application of conditional release and substitution of punishment more mildly. That's why the number of convicts is now 94,000. 125 people, if that's what you're interested in. And it's holding somewhere more or less stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u61	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Honourable Volodymira Anatoliyovich, after reviewing the bill, raised the following question: Article 14 of the bill stipulates that when amnesty is applied to persons who have been reduced in terms of pardon or amnesty, it is necessary to proceed with the period of punishment imposed in accordance with these acts. But according to article 7 of this bill, amnesty does not apply to persons who have already been amnesty or pardoned for 1994-2004, regardless of whether they have removed or extinguished the trial or who have committed a premeditated crime again. Is there no contradiction here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u63	There's no contradiction. So in article 14, we're talking about those people who have been reduced sentences, and they're now being punished at places where they're deprived of their will. It refers to those who were released before the adoption of this law, in article 7, that is, they have already taken advantage of their chance for a humane act. That's why there's no colossal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u64	Thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. Yes, give the names of the national deputies on the sign-up board. We'll give you 15 minutes to talk. Bondarczuk Alexander, a faction of Communists, prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u65	Dear President, the People's Deputies! The bill is timely, it must be supported, we do have a severe shortage of prisons for oligarchs, and it is long overdue to release those who have been forced from poverty to remove the bolt from the factory and to identify those who steal entire factories. And today's are going to take out the entire aircraft industry. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to how this is done. Plane reform scheme for the aircraft industry as it is. The Minister of Industrial Policy of Neustreev, the following: All airlines and KBs are joined together and a counter is created on top of their man, who manages financial flows and any sales. These factories are owned in the center of Kiev, for example, by land, there with very developed infrastructure, buildings and access roads. I see where this is going. Such a reform scheme would be supported by only two people -- in fact, it is the former and current head of the Kharkiv Aviation Plant Mealic and Naumenko. They've already reformed their plant, like, according to this pattern. What they have done is that there are fair structures around the factory, houses of commerce, and all the financial flows, in fact, are children in these private structures, and people are not paid their wages. NTK Antonov and the airline work groups are protesting such reforms. According to my data, they're going to hold a cabinet of ministers on this Friday. And in general, given that the merger scheme is about the same as the one with the sum institutes, I'm sure that adults -- 12,000 people working in two factories -- will still be able to stand up for their factories. [[Do you remember what happened?]] Why are these reforms not, in principle, necessary for this aircraft industry? Because, to date, in principle, there is already a cooperative of leading aircraft-building enterprises, ranging from technical documentation to light technology testing, to post-sale maintenance. Second, there is a rush to do so. It's been set aside for the entire reform for two weeks. There is no technical and economic justification for this reform. Fourthly, it is assumed that aircraft that today by air actually generate profits for these factories will be alienated. Well, that's the last one. Attention is drawn to the fact that the Director of Mission of the American firm Sigma Blaiser is in general the initiator of the reform. In short, everything can end, all this reform by destroying our aircraft, the aircraft industry. The Communist faction supports aircraft builders in their struggle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask speakers to speak in essence about the matter that we are discussing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkva, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, this bill reminds me of such a wonderful mystery. I'll quote it to you and our radio audience. "How should a humanist act when he sees a crocodile sneaking up on a cannibal?".. I repeat, "How should a humanist act when he sees a crocodile sneaking up on a cannibal?" Something about this section is this bill. On the one hand, of course, we want to be very kind and humane, because we understand very well that our destiny is very primitive, very trendy, and very corrupt, and we understand very often that people get caught up in small things and come up unjust and people go to play and come back completely different. The guy's on my tongue! I wouldn't want it to be, but it is. And on the other hand, you can be humanists when we release again an armada of bandits into Ukraine, which today -- actually, from my point of view, is my position -- is being done. I just got back from Kharkish. I've been speaking in several areas, and I can call them Krasnograd, Lozova, Izum -- I can tell you that a group of british bandits released from my prison, equipped with a Mercedes bus, equipped with a number of cars, and with a national artist named Gnatuk and folk artist Palamarenko, we come to another area, and they're already there. With megaphones, with slogans, with everything there is. I mean, these are the people that the authorities released today just for the election. That's another thing I'd like to say. Here, the so-called majority of yesterday is still talking about what the Supreme Council is doing there, which means it's not working very well right now and that sort of thing. I have to tell you that the bill that Andrew School prepared made me so happy is just another piece of evidence. Very often we have bills and populists, and empty, the gap is flying in different directions, that's all. This is the bill that you are. Who is made for, well, forgive me, according to the highest standards of legislation. You can argue with certain positions, meaning there, about that article or that one. Some categories may or may not set us up. But the fact that this bill, which has worked out a colossal legislative basis for putting everything into this bill, I'm convinced that it needs to be adopted in the first reading. But believe me, I'm telling the truth, it feels like we're MPs, not legalists, let's say. It's very hard to figure out all the nuances. Because of this, I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that this bill should be dealt with primarily by lawyers, high-class lawyers in second reading. To give him some clarification, and we'll have a beautiful, humane one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u68	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, the faction of our Ukraine, is invited to speak. The next one's gonna be Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! In the cold autumn of 2004, criminality seized power, with so - called law - enforcement officials completely pursuing it. Yesterday, neither the acting Attorney General of Kudrijavts, nor the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the Ukrainian Security Service, which I will require to be removed immediately, was involved in what happened when hundreds of tons of non-needy produced abroad were brought here to Ukraine when 300 teams were preparing for the election of criminality in cooperation with internal affairs authorities. The deputy minister, along with two secret department heads, was now assigned to work on this. What do we want now? We can get even colder in the fall of 2004. So let's be clear about what date we're taking amnesty. I remind you that by law the Supreme Council accepts amnesty no more than once during the calendar year. In 1997, we accepted the first anniversary of the Constitution. Now, what's amnesty for? Let's make this clear. If it's the New Year's Eve, give it to New Year's. But I firmly oppose amnesty being adapted to presidential elections and used by previously convicted Yanukovic. It's categorically against that kind of application. What is more, the analysis of these projects shows that the government bill is subject to amnesty for rape, suicide, torture, infection of another person with human immunodeficiency or other incurable infectious disease, illegal abortion if it causes the victim to die, sexual relations with a person who has not reached sexual maturity and so on. [[152 Article]] [[120th]] [[127th]] [[130]] At the same time, article 6 may be released after the judgment has been rendered. So I remind you that the purpose of punishment is a little different and correction. I'm saying that this goal doesn't take into account the government bill. I'm going to vote in favour of the Andrew School Bill, which also has a lot of flaws, but I'm going to try to eliminate all of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u70	Yes. Vitalia Sibka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, turn it on. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovština. I want to remind our colleagues of the name of the movie "The City of Meetings Can't Be Changed." You remember that the author named his book The Age of Mercy. I mean, I wanted to emphasize that in all the ages, mankind had hoped that there would be an era of mercy and amnesty that applied to all, even criminals who today did not fit into the lines of this law, which was offered by Andrew School and the Cabinet of Ministers, they also had to cherish hope for the better. But it's written down so far what Andrew School has. And I think it makes sense because, in fact, we are today in accordance with our Constitution, according to the Convention on Human Rights, we have to consider who and how he committed the crime and what kind of crime it is. But there are a few questions about how we're going to adopt this bill and it's going to be the law. First. Well, I think it's a more philosophical question than a legal one, whether it's an intentional crime or not. How, in fact, to take into account on purpose someone on "Theft" or on "Mazy" came upon someone, and the court admitted that he did it not intentionally, but the public consciousness all the time claims that it was done on purpose. And how do you identify all of this in order to make the right conclusion. This is the first, and this will always be the question before the bodies that have to do this. And the second question. This is already the case with the Amnesty Commission itself. You know it exists. In order for her to consider something, there must be a procedure. So whoever's actually in the correction phase has to take some years off, then he has to get some characteristics. And you know that these characteristics are very difficult to get, because if a person really thinks that he's not involved in this crime, he can make some kind of resistance, and of course he'll be given some of these characteristics will not be considered positive if this is considered by this commission. And the last. You know that the President has the right to amnesty, and he can do it alone. So he can do it, not even with anyone. Well, I don't know if it was an accident or not, but according to the procedure, it probably exists. So I'm saying that here, really, we have to accept this bill, take it as the basis of Andrew School, but we still have to think about the procedure that's going to be done so that it can really be implemented in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u72	Thank you. Only respectable colleagues, let us distinguish between two terms: amnesty and pardon. Ivan Gorenik, please. There's no Eugene the Gunner? Leukyanko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u73	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The problem of amnesty is extremely important. Because we know that imprisonment breaks people’s minds. And the person who sits in a criminal camp comes out of it with a broken mind, not a normal mentality, and an assessment of the behavior of his or her stranger. Thus, society must long for fewer people to enter concentration camps and prisons. So from that point of view, amnesty would be a positive step. But two moments raise doubts. The first is that the list of amnestyes is extremely wide, and people are amnestyd who have committed very serious crimes. Clearly, this is no way to go. The other one. Amnesty is actually done at a time when it is not known why. So we understand that it's necessary for Yanukovich to mobilize huge extra forces, gangs actually, to help him strangle honest voters. You've already seen how you used it. in Mukachev. And now Janukovic wants to spread this practice throughout Ukraine. He needs strength, and these forces he mobilizes from concentration camps. This is the kind of thinking that makes me propose, move my own amnesty or until December 1st, that's until the day of the referendum, when the referendum was declared for Ukraine's independence, or for New Year's, but not now. So on the basis of this, I actually propose to approve the amnesty project of Andria School and to give it as the main one, to put it to rest, so that it can be looked at again sometime later. The project was a government project, and even a profile committee recommended that it not be approved. That's how. This gives us reason to believe that the Andrew School project is well-designed. And it has to be laid as a foundation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. One minute of Stephen the Cloud, please. Time's up. Time's up. Stephen Cloudy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u75	Stepan Cloud, Julia Timoshenko's block faction, Fatherland's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important bill, but it needs to be approached very, very carefully. And I think the main criterion should be the assessment of the nature of the crime. That is, amnesty cannot be distributed to those who have violated fundamental, moral principles by committing crimes, and when deliberate action is clearly seen. And on the basis of this bill, we need to adopt, and this is exactly what these principles are in line with the bill proposed by the people's deputies at school. It needs to be taken as a basis and seriously worked hard, taking into account the opinion of highly qualified lawyers, taking into account the humanitarian situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u76	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of draft amnesty laws has been completed. Let's move on to the vote. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the first draft of the Law. Registration number 5629, author of the National Deputy School Andriy Vasilovich. This is draft Amnesty Act, registration number 5629. Please vote. [[12:02:08]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Now the second draft of the law, the honorary colleagues, the government. But please note, there is a draft decree on the inadmissibility of Ukraine's draft Amnesty Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Author Teryohin. Is there a Teryohin? None. However, I would like to put to the vote a draft decree on the inadmissibility of Ukraine's draft Amnesty Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, author of the National Deputy Terjohin. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:02:54]] For 115 The decision is not taken. So I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Amnesty Act, registration number 5629-1, government. Please vote. [[12:03:26]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal of the Amnesty Law Committee to send drafts, registration numbers 5629, 5629-1 to read again. Please vote. For re-reading, and we're going to ask you to work out and bring in one project that's agreed upon. Please vote. [[12:04:02]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Well, since we don't get it, I'd like to rephrase exactly what we're going to vote for. I'm voting for re-reading the amnesty bill, registration numbers 5629, and 5629-1. Please vote. [[12:04:43]] For 236 Decision taken. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours, 35 minutes. We will consider ratification issues, and after the break, a re-examination of laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. I'd like everyone to be in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u77	Invite the national deputies to the session room, we'll continue our work. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is being tabled. Reporter - Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Nastavajchenko Valentin Aleksandrovich. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich. Three minutes. Please provide information about the document. And then I'd like to ask the committee to conclude a date. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich is. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is proposed. The Consular Convention was signed on October 1, 2001, in Kiev during a visit by the head of the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Consular Convention extends the rights of diplomats and consuls of the parties, in the protection of citizens, in the protection of maritime vessels of the two sides, and will contribute to the strengthening of bilateral relations by its content and by its text. As a political document, it will also contribute to the overall development of the further contractual framework between our countries. The implementation and application of the said Consular Convention does not require amendments to existing legislation, the adoption of new legislative acts, or the cost of additional government budgets in Ukraine. The bill was discussed and supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration and Foreign Affairs. I would like to brief you on the fact that during the last talks with Serbia and Montenegro with the government, we agreed that by changing. do not change the names of States in the text of the Consular Convention. As the official position of the government has been proved to us, the state union of Serbia and Montenegro under its national and international status continues and bears all the international obligations of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Serbia and Montenegro ratified this Consular Convention on July 1, 2002. I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u79	Thank you. No questions? None. Please sit down, Valentina Alexandrovich. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich is head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was introduced at the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The convention, according to the report, was signed on October 1, 2001 by Prime Minister Kinah Anatoli Kirilovich. The ratification of the Consular Convention is being carried out with the aim of further developing a contractual legal basis for Ukrainian-Serbian relations and Montenegro relations, creating the right conditions for the protection of Ukraine's rights and interests, legal persons and citizens of Ukraine. The agreement does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine. its implementation does not require the adoption of new laws or changes to existing legislation. The main scientific and expert management, the European Integration Committees, support the ratification of the Consular Convention on budgetary matters. Please support the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this issue? Javorowski, Karmazin, and Chernewecki were enrolled. Who insists on this? Come on, then, we need to ratify this document, your honors. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the session room. Because it's not about our internal affairs, it's about international issues. So let's mobilize. Field of procedure, Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u82	I am again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to say to our radio listeners. You're really making a personal effort to get the Supreme Council to work right now. But I would like to draw once again the attention of our radio audiences and all the people of Ukraine to the fact that today, when it comes to important international agreements, there are almost two factions: the SDPU(o) and the ones that Janukovic is looking after, they are practically not working. So there's an absolute sabotage of the work of the Supreme Council with these factions, these people, and then there's a false complete information through the Inter channel that says the Supreme Council doesn't work, it doesn't accept anything. I would like people to know about who today is not interested in Ukraine’s international, internal interests, but we will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. [[Registration number 0195]] Please vote. [[12:42:35]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine -81, Ukraine - 5, Communist faction - 55, SDPU - 0, Deminiciatives - People's Government - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 15, SPU - 17, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 0, Party "One Ukraine" - 0, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 16, Center - 12, Post-faction - 9. Let's move on to a re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. It's about the laws that were committed by the President of Ukraine. Who's with the procedure? Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u84	Sobolen. Victor Yushchenka's electoral block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief! I have one question. It is perfectly clear that the next six questions will now require either the veto, which requires at least 300 votes, or another procedure. Given that all previous votes were held at the maximum of 230-240 votes, I had an offer to move this chapter to a different time. Because overcoming the veto is, in principle, impossible. And we understand that a number of factions of Parliament simply block his work even on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, one minute. We have a whole group of laws that are proposed to be considered with the President's comment, of which only two are proposed to be taken up by the Supreme Council for the purpose of overcoming the veto. Everyone else is in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. So if we don't support the President's proposal, I don't know what we're going to do next. Let's work if you don't mind. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 5.07.2004, has been announced for consideration. The reporter is Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Anatoly Volodymyrovich Orzhachowski will speak from the committee. And you, dear fellows, please mobilize for productive work. We don't have much time left until the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with its constitutional powers, the President of Ukraine applied the veto to the Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, based on the fact that the adopted law did not have any constitutionality in the exercise of the authority of the city's head by a person who was not elected by direct vote in accordance with the requirements laid down directly in the Constitution of Ukraine. On the basis of the changes that are proposed to be made on the basis of the examination of the profile committee, by noting the temporary nature of the position of the secretary of the local council until the time is decided by law and in a certain manner of another person for the position of city or village head, in my view, you can agree with the proposals made by the committee because they claim a temporary order when there is no real possibility of exercising authority by a person who has been chosen according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u87	Any questions, dear fellows? Please sign up. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. George Manchulenko. You're handing Boris Bespalloma, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u88	George Manchulenko. Please pass the word to Boris Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u89	Please, Bespaly Boris Jakovitch, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u90	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, State Building Committee, local self-government. Alexander Volodymyrovich, first of all, thank you to the Ministry for supporting our project with the comments made. I think we'll do it together. But that is the question. There was an argument in the President's objections that the Council Secretary was not a person who was chosen directly. But the highest legitimacy status in terms of choice is the Secretary of the Council, that's the second person in the community. First, his citizens are elected within the constituency by a deputy, then by other council deputies, the council is already elected by a council secretary. So there's no other person who has the same election status after his head. So I think, wouldn't you agree that this is the most logical thing if there was no head to do the duties of the secretary of the council?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u91	I've already answered that question. Of course, it cannot be said that any other person can replace a person who is chosen by direct vote. Is it a national constable in a constituency that no one can replace when he's out? Or the position of head of state. No one can replace him. The temporary exercise of individual powers may be carried out by another person. So in this case. The temporary exercise of individual powers must certainly be carried out by an official who has the highest legitimacy to perform a similar function. And the exact legal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u92	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u93	Dear reporter. We will support this law with the President's proposals. According to the faction, they are good enough, and they need to be supported. But I do have that question. Don't you think it's necessary for the most serious in law enforcement in our country to make wider additions to this law? Especially. How should we proceed and how best to do it, or did the rural community have the opportunity to do so if it did not trust how to change its head, whether it was the country's head, or the country's deputy? Today, it seems like a small village, and this procedure is so complicated, it's so complicated, it's so difficult to do it. There are cases where the head of the country is practically alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u94	You know, this question has two sides. When in this room we solved the problem of the possibility of recalling, there was an argument very correct from my point of view, that it would make it impossible to use any discontent from individual groups that appear necessarily after the official begins to exercise his authority so as not to destabilize the work of local self-government. That's why it's complicated. Of course, there are times when people can make collective mistakes. This is true of the territorial communities. And during my MP activity, I also had cases when people came and said, "Take off this head, it doesn't give us life anymore." Well, what was the choice? So the problem here is much more complicated in terms of public relations. So in this regard, I do not have a clear answer today as to the need for such changes in the law. The need for other changes is essential. as a reform of the local self-government system as a whole, so that our territorial communities have the opportunity to make real use of the authority to deal with local issues according to their designated authority, with the appropriate resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u95	Yes, thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Time's up. The report invites the head of the State Building and Local Government Committee, Anatoly Volodymyrovich Orzhachowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on September 7, 2004, reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Government in Ukraine, according to which, in the event of a permanent suspension of the powers of rural, rural, urban or urban head, it is impossible to exercise its authority and henceforth, the authority of the village, village, village, village council to take office as a newly elected village, village or city head. [[Part of the Supplement to Article 42 of the Law of Rural, Rural, Urban Head.]] In the refusal of the Supreme Council to sign the Law, the President of Ukraine indicates that the changes proposed by law to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine are unacceptable because they do not comply with article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the post of village head is elected. [[of the village]] That is, the head is chosen by the respective territorial community on the basis of the overall equal direct election right by secret ballot. In the President's view, the automatic transfer of the village, the city's head of the council, that is to say, to a person who is chosen from the number of deputies of the council, rather than from the entire territorial community, will not ensure compliance with constitutional norms in the field of local self-government, which is unacceptable. [[of the village]] The Supreme Council Committee's firm belief in State construction and local self-government with the President's proposal to reject this law cannot be accepted. Indeed, 141 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine and the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine indicate a special order of taking office as a village head through elections. [[of the village]] But neither the Ukrainian Constitution nor the law defines who should perform the duties of a village head when the head is unable to perform his duties, or when there is no one to be elected by the head. [[of the village]] In such cases the work of local self - government authorities is impossible and in practice, in fact, ceases. It was in order to resolve this situation and make the work of local self - government more effective, and it was directed to the law passed in this room. According to the scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council to impose a veto on the Ukrainian President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, there were no sufficient legal grounds. Having carefully examined the President's adopted law and argument, our committee recommends rejecting the President's proposals and accepting the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee, and adopting the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government and Ukraine in a new edition. The essence of the MPs' proposals is expressed in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u97	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The essence of the proposals made by deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government is set out in a table that is comparable to yours, honorary colleagues. But I'll tell you a little bit about them. It is proposed in article 42, part one of this article to provide that the secretary of the village, village, city council temporarily, I emphasize, is temporarily exercising the designated authority from the time of the end of the mandate of the appropriate council and until the time of the appointment of the new head in accordance with the law. The other one. Part two, article 42. It is suggested that the relevant council appoints and conducts elections for rural, rural and urban heads in the event of a permanent suspension of the powers of rural, rural and urban heads, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, in a period of 40 days from the time of the early termination of their powers. The Scientific and Experimental Authority on these proposals believes that the bill can be adopted in a new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Please sit down, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, in order to comply with the Rules, we must proceed in such a way as to vote. To vote first on the President's proposal to reject the law, and then, if the decision is not taken, then to consider and put to the vote a proposal to accept it in a new edition. Do you understand the turn of the vote? That's why I'm putting to the vote the President of Ukraine's motion to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[12:57:08]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Now, pay attention, fellows of honor! I'm voting on the committee's proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine in a new edition, registration number 3599. Please vote. [[12:57:52]] For 243 The law is passed. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" is 90. I'm reading for it. Ukraine - 4, Communists - 57, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian - 19, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 15, Union and Party "One Ukraine" - 0, Center - 13, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 16, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 9. Two factions made a statement in accordance with the Rules. At the request of two factions - SDPU(o) and the "Ukraine Region" - please give a 30-minute recess to determine the factions' position on the issues under discussion. Please, if you have one. Please come in. Dear colleagues, do you have a statement? Please, let's make statements, then we'll work. All I'd ask is that we don't lose our jobs right now. Please, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear people of Ukraine! Today, the issue of poison is frequently discussed in the country. I really want to tell you that this is relevant. Both the main poison and the main poison comes from this rostrum, through these microphones. We witnessed this happen hours ago. My faction authorized me to state the following. Dear colleagues, the radios! My country may be experiencing one of the most difficult and responsible periods of its development. Everyone understood and understood that elections would be fateful. Everyone should realize that elections are a fight for ideas, a rivalry of teams. In fact, in Ukraine today there is no fight for ideas, no rivalry of teams, there is the naked trauma of our candidate Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Realizing that the only Prime Minister who has made all his predecessors' previous promises in real life is forcing you to understand such unethical methods. Today, from this rostrum, the representative of the BUT faction, Grigory Omelchenko, was hailed from this rostrum by the representative of the faction Grigory Omelchenko, as cynical, offensive, false information, fictions against Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Wherein ye did not accuse him of the sins of death. How could you do that, Gregory Omelchenko? You're a lawyer, you're in all your speeches, defending the leader of your faction, Yulia Timoshenko, you're using the main legal postulate, the presumption of innocence. So why are you using double standards with our candidate? You won't silence me, you won't stop us, you've clearly calculated that we, the faction of "regions" after such false, cynical statements, are going into a fight, we're going to disrupt Parliament's work. Our 90 per cent faction, consisting of majorists, a faction in which 60 per cent of the country's leaders, have never used or will not use six Ukrainian heroes. We are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! 20 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u102	Please, I have three more minutes. What a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u103	Take it easy. Please read and sit down, don't shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u104	We request a public apology for the soothsaying of this rostrum. Second. We believe that there is a pattern of crime in this regard. By the way, Vladimir Mihajlovich, what was the commission for monitoring the election of the President set up? What other example of such cynical treatment of a leading candidate does this commission need to start working? We demand a moratorium on any use, both for advertising and for anti-advertisement purposes, on the rules of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u105	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u106	The names of the candidates for the Presidents. We want to do the election, we can do it, and we need to do it in the districts. And the last. The election will be held and our wise people will elect the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u108	and will make his own choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u109	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u110	But we need to know what.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Microphone. Dear colleagues, let's not disturb the session hall, please! Have a seat, please. Now. One minute, everything's gonna be fine. I want to say one thing to the well-respected reporter. The commission will work when your representative attends the board meeting. Yes, please log in. Three minutes out of procedure. You don't need a replica, my dear fellows. I know who they call names, they're not all there. Three minutes, please. Yes, please. And let's keep working, dear fellows. Sobolev Sergei, faction of our Ukraine, then Valerius Mishur. Take it easy. They spoke, they exchanged lines, everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u112	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues from the "Regions" faction! We've been demanding for almost four months now that you print out all the lawsuits of your leader Yanukovic and let the entire people of Ukraine find out why he beat up an old man on the first occasion, and then he's got a wallet, a hat, a watch in his house. Let the people know. Second, publish it. Why he was sitting in the other zone. Then let us print all the criminal cases that have been opened to him after the rape. Let's print this out and there won't be any questions. You hide it from the people of Ukraine. That's why I'm just surprised when we find dirt in the tones, which includes transporting it to Zaporez Airport by airplanes, fueling international hostility, promoting civil war by your candidate, because Januković's output and all the dirty cards are all the same, only the signature there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u113	Thank you. Valery Mishur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u114	Peter Simonck's faction. Please give it to Sergey Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u115	Sergei Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u116	Thank you. There has just been a statement here that there is no fight for ideas in Ukraine. Despite the horrors that have been established today, there is still a struggle of ideas. Communists are opposed to the regime that has taken place in Ukraine today. The truth is another, today we have a pattern of internal regime separation between the two oligarchic groups. They're really throwing dirt at each other. We Communists are in favour of a fundamental regime change. And when the Communist Party candidate, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko, will be President, we will indeed have a fight against ideas, not the fight against the criminal oligarchic clans that are being turned around in Ukraine today and who are trying to represent as a campaign for election. We, the Communists, have worked, we will work, including in Parliament for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the people. Hail Ukraine! Long live social justice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u117	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u118	Catherine Vaschuk, People's Agrarian Faction. Dear colleagues, we all need to understand that we are not fighting ideas in our room right now. And the fight for our parliament will work effectively, or the forces that would compromise its work will win. That's why I'm talking to all my colleagues. Don't you see that no candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine will win from the filth being poured into Parliament from the rostrum? Everybody loses. In general, the Supreme Council loses. So we need to be wiser and higher than those game scenes that we would like to play around the Parliament. To come, to register, to work, and to fulfill the responsibility for which we went to Parliament and promised the electorate to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, don't mention names. Why us. Once again, dear colleagues, you're very well aware of that, please. Just a minute. You're all aware that two major candidates are playing them. You and you are on it. Meet, arrange for honest rules of the game, and make choices. I can't, my dear fellows, give no time. The Supreme Council won't have the castle hanged, I mean, once again, the big castle. She'll be working. [[Applause]] Now, honourable colleagues, the procedure has just been recorded and voted. It is announced for the review of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Law on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.07.2004. Registration number 3120. Reporter is deputy head of the State Tax Administration, Kopilov Vadim Anatoliyovich. Kaputin Victor will be speaking from the committee. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Act of 1 July 2004 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Money Transfers in Ukraine. This law, which was returned by the President of Ukraine for reconsideration with the proposal to exclude from his standards the first paragraph of the second and the fifth paragraph of chapter two. Under the first paragraph of the second section of the Act, it is proposed to amend the Law "On the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services" under which the obligation to use accountancy registers for the sale of goods in the field of trade, public nutrition and services will depend solely on business entities that carry out accounts with consumers in cash and cash-free forms using payment cards, cheques, tokens and so on. The introduction of such a limitation of the business circle, which extends the obligation to comply with the rules of accounting order, will result in 90 per cent of the entrepreneurial structures operating exclusively in cash accounting areas, which range from 7 to 8 billion. A month's worth of money. It denies the provision of section II, paragraph 5, of the Act, which proposes to oblige traders who engage in entrepreneurial activities in the field of the sale of food and services, starting on January 1, 2006, to settle with holders of special means of payment for the sale of goods, including traders who have not been able to carry out such calculations since January 1, 2006, will be prohibited from carrying out cash-based settlement operations. This restriction would lead to a violation of article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine’s right to entrepreneurial activity. Most of these requirements are in the small business sector, where today about 3.5 million people work in the field of trade, public nutrition, and services. persons. Ensuring compliance with this requirement will cost each enterprise entity a quarter of a thousand dollars. And in Ukraine as a whole, this will cause more than three billion dollars to be spent and can have a significant impact on the number of appropriate entrepreneurial structures, as it will result in a large number of eliminations, rising unemployment, worsening socio-economic conditions of the corresponding population category of Ukraine. In summary, he proposes to support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to exclude the second paragraph of the second paragraph and the second paragraph of the second chapter of the Ukrainian Act of 1 July 2004, the 1949-4 amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions. No questions? No, sit down, please. The first deputy to the Committee on Finance and Banking, Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusdin, is the correspondent. Please, Victor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u122	Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you that a few months ago, we passed this law, we adopted it by a large majority of the votes that testify to its support. This law is really, really important, it regulates payments, calculations, internal calculations. And so, of course, for these reasons, we supported him. What are the president's remarks? Mr. Kopilov has just made these remarks. I will not repeat them. We discussed this at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Banking and supported this observation. In fact, they go down to two points: the law actually narrows down, by sub-paragraph two of section two of this law, it actually narrows down the sector of the application of accounting registers, which can actually reduce revenue to the budget, conceal revenue and reduce revenue to the budget. And the second question is the use of special means of payment. It is indeed a serious burden on entrepreneurs, especially small businesses, who will have to spend serious costs to use, buy and use, to use these payment, special payments, which go against our policy of supporting small, small and medium-sized enterprises. On the basis of these considerations, our committee has considered these proposals and proposes to support this bill with the president's comments, and I ask you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u123	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the vote is not on the table. Please note that the motion for a committee to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in Ukraine is being put to the vote in a new edition of the President's proposal. Taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 3120. Please vote. [[13:14:33]] For 232 The law is passed. The factions, please. " Our Ukraine is 90, the "Regions of Ukraine" is 2, the Communist faction is 56, SDPU is 0, Hard Ukraine is 0, the People's Agrarian Party is 14, SPO is 14, Block Timoshenko is 18, Alliance is 0, "The One Ukraine" is 0, "The Centre" is 15, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs is 14, "Democratic Initiatives" is 0, "The Postfactional" is 9. It is announced for consideration of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.07.2004, registration number 4147. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration Voschevsky Valeriy Mikolayovich. The first deputy head of the Finance and Banking Committee, Vasil Tsusko, will be the focal point. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies! On July 1, this year, the Supreme Council passed the Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts. The law was designed to deal with the issue of taxing transactions for the import of cultural values. However, I would like to stress this, along with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Purchase of Goods, Jobs and Services for State Funds and the Code of Administrative Offences. Most of the changes proposed by the bill are not in the economic interest of the State, may result in additional costs of public funds, conflict with international procurement practices, may also discriminate against purchasers and, as a result, do not comply with the main objective of the law: creating a competitive environment in the field of public procurement, ensuring transparency. In view of the comments made above, the President of Ukraine has made a proposal to delete an article of the third bill, which is being amended by the Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at state expense. The request is to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u125	Yes, thank you. Basil Tsushko, please. Vasil Petrovich Cuzko, first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Thank you, Valery Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our committee has considered the President's remarks on this bill. A working group had been established, almost all agreed upon under article 3. This law reverses, transparency is now, everything has actually agreed with the Presidential amendments. And in the table, the only thing missing, in paragraph 5. 12 after the words "archives and other state institutions of culture or education." The Committee therefore proposes to support the new draft bill that our committee has tabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u127	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to enact legislation in a new edition, taking into account the warnings of the President of Ukraine. We're going to vote now. May I have your attention, please? Help me, Raisa Vasilivna. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[in a new edition]] Registration number 4147. Please vote [[13:18:32]] For 236 The law is passed. It is announced before the review of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on excise duty rates on ethyl alcohol for the medical sector, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 07.07.2004. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Finance Kosticky Vasil Vasilovich. The narrator will be Vasil Tsushko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! On July 7, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Ukraine’s law on excise duty rates for ethyl and alcoholic beverages. The Law provides for the restoration in 2004 of the excise duty on alcohol of ethyl alcohol at a level of 2 per cent per gallon of alcohol, used by health - care establishments and manufacturers of medical supplies. The president of Ukraine believes that a technical error was made when the law was passed and asks that he consider his proposals. That's the point of the problem. Under this law, part one and part two of article 3 of the Act on excise duty rates on ethyl alcohol, which is used by health institutions, is set at 2 bracelets of 1 litre of alcohol per cent and correspondingly part of the third to 18th of this article has been renamed and determined by parts two and seventeen. At the same time, however, a change was made to paragraph 57 of the first part of article 80, but without taking into account the renumbering that I heard above. As a result, these benefits have also been extended to other alcohol producers who do not target the medical field for drug use, such as perfume production, alcohol vinegar, explosives, nitrocellulose. In this connection, the President, in support of the recovery of the medical benefits, requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine in article 1 of chapter 1 of the first Ukrainian Act to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the excise duty rate on ethyl alcohol for the medical sector, and the figure of part three of the third indent of article 3, replace by words and figures, quote: “Parts two, third article three. This will help to avoid problems with the cost of the budget and to continue work aimed at compensating the costs of drug manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u129	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. The first deputy chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vasil Petrovich Cuzko, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The Committee agreed with the President's proposal. I'm asking you to support this, because it's a matter of excise duty on medical alcohol. That is why we have fully agreed with the President, i.e. there will be a concession rate of 2 bracelets. Please vote in a new version with the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will now put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on excise duty rates for ethyl alcohol for the medical sector, in a new edition with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 4191. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:22:46]] For 230 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have two more laws with proposals left. What, what? Dear colleagues! Let's say here is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Circumstances of Alcohol, Alcohol and Tobacco, with the President's proposals of 23.07.2004. The committee is asking for further work on it. Is there no objection? Then let's put it off, let the committee work, reconcile positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 7.07, is now under review. What are the suggestions here for the committee, please? Now let them say from the committee what a proposition. Move it, move it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u132	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. On September 8, our committee considered this question, and yesterday we also returned to it. And yet the committee's proposal, by most of us, we've made this decision, to reject the President's proposals for that. That is, to impose a moratorium. What are our arguments? For one thing, some 40 laws were to be adopted on the present day under the Earth Code, such as the State Land Mortgage Bank Act, which has not yet been passed; the most important law that defines the rules of the land market, the Land Market Act, which was adopted only in the first reading; the State Land Cadastre Act and a number of other laws. This is the first one. The second question. To date, only some 60 State acts on land ownership have been issued. How can we enter the earth’s market within two months when people do not yet have a document of ownership? And the third most important, most important argument that we can call a sociopolitical argument. We know that today almost all property in Ukraine is in the hands of 5-6 clans. It's all for today. In Ukraine, it's estimated at about 80 billion dollars, about 500 billion dollars. And if tomorrow our people, who have very low pensions, who do not have all the State acts on earth, and when the village gives the money, can practically be bought up land. And we've discussed this issue on the committee today, and we're asking you to overcome the President's veto. But given a number of arguments, we do propose to agree with the President in two positions. In paragraph 1 of paragraph 6 the words and digits "by 1 January 2005" should be replaced by the digits "by 1 January 2008" given that in February we have adopted a Supreme Council decree that continues this term. And second moment. In paragraph 13, the words and digits "before January 1, 2010" are replaced by the words and digits "before January 1, 2015. This means that by January 1, 2010, citizens, legal persons can acquire land ownership rights of up to 100 hectares [100 ha]. When the Land Market Act is passed, I think it can really be adjusted and the President's proposals can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u133	Thank you. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, just for a little while. Now we're going to vote against the committee's proposals in the new edition. May I have your attention, please? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Allow me to express my sincere thanks for understanding and supporting the formation and development of land legislation. Since the adoption of Ukraine’s Earth Code, some 30 legislative acts have been adopted for your direct participation and promotion. In addition, there are still a number of normative documents in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. The adoption of the relevant laws provided a prerequisite for increasing the efficient use of land in Ukraine, increasing the budget receipts of all levels of land payments and the implementation of part one and part four of article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the right of ownership, use and administration of property, including land. By constantly communicating with you, we share your concern about the need for social protection and state guarantees to landowners and agricultural land owners. [[pears]] Of the seven million citizens who own land particles, nearly 53 percent are pensioners. [[pears]] And we offer this protection, guarantees and conditions for the circulation of agricultural land as a whole to define the Ukrainian Land Market Act, which, today, taking into account your suggestions and observations, is ready for second reading. Of course, the introduction of agricultural land was preceded by a considerable amount of work in producing State acts on land ownership. And as last reported by Roman Volodymyrovich, I'm going to say that 4.7 million state-owned acts have been created and issued today in exchange for 70.1 percent of the total number and the development stage for today is 17.1 percent. In line with this transparent democratic land market, Ukraine's Real Estate Registration and Restriction Act, which was adopted at the end of the last session and which would allow the State guarantee to landowners from 1 January 2005. The honourable national MPs, who have worked with you on a legislative basis to ensure Ukraine's land reform, can be declared ineffective and will in fact stop all market transformations in the country by just one law, which is now returned by the President of Ukraine for the re-examination that we are considering today. So to this day, we propose to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to reject it, because his proposals were to reject the bill completely. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is also of the view that it is appropriate to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and the Act of Ukraine amending the Ukraine Code of Land, number 3372, to reject. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u134	Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? Questions? Please, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna and then Nikolainka. Three minutes to ask. We need to mobilize and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u135	Dear reporter, really, we've done a lot of good laws together with the Statecommunity, but agree, I am absolutely convinced that you as a very highly qualified specialist know that if you introduce a market in Ukraine from January 1st, a greater crime against the village is hard to come up with, because you are not ready to have a legislative base, not ready structures for all who will carry out these operations, to register in Ukraine, they are simply not formed. Especially if all of this is to be done, not through auctions, such as the usual real estate trade, but by the compulsory presence of the State, for the earth is a national wealth. That's why I think we're right for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u136	Yes, Stanislaw Nikolainka. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u137	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. If you'll excuse me, I would like to say that all the proposals for regulating the circulation of agricultural destinations made by the deputies of the Supreme Council to the Land Market Act today, which regulate all those, of course, fears like us. And I think we need to work and not go, not take any steps back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u138	Yes, Stanislaw Nikolainka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u139	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mikhailo Jurkovic. I think you know that there are more than 16 million people in the village today, the land, in fact, that they've got about seven, nine million people -- those people who are out there in the middle of the afternoon, they're teachers, doctors, intelligence, health workers, let's say, trade, they've run out of land. And now they are forever without the earth at all. We're on our way. Soon the rich will buy up this entire land, and in fact the number of depopulated people in the villages will be tens of millions. I'm glad today that those who voted in favour of the Earth Code have finally come to realize that this cannot be done, because it's the right thing to do in Alexander Frost's program: "Traffick with bread, not with land." So I'm asking you a question, Mikhail Jurkovic: are you responsible as a government representative for setting on fire today the social conflicts in the countryside that may return to the revolution, whether after this vote or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u140	Thank you for asking. I want to say that we don't light up, we want and we try, we make proposals for all of the questions about regulation of the land legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u141	Yes, Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u142	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Eugene Kirilchuk Your Honor, you've been asked questions today, and seriously, you haven't answered them properly. When we adopted the Earth Code, it was said, and everyone knows that at least 20 more laws must be passed in order for the Earth Code to work, to work. Well, if there's no land bank, there's no mortgage issue, there's no procedure, there's no special state structures, there's no right field to even do that. We have today the market for land within the population. It's just the ground, no matter what kind of work it is, that's all! Don't you get it? First the laws, then the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u143	Thank you for asking. I mean, we also support the fact that laws have to be formed. And today we're shaping all the laws. The basic two laws that we now consider necessary must be adopted, this is the Land Market Act and the State Land Cadastre Act, which was adopted yesterday in the first reading, which will be finalized. And we still have time to adopt the appropriate legislative framework. But at the same time, I mean. According to an experience that is, for example, in the same Russia and Moldova, where there is an open market, the circulation is only one or three percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, so we have two suggestions. Have a seat, please. The President's first suggestion is to reject the law, in accordance with the Rules, I'll put it first, and then adopt it in a new edition with the clarifications proposed by the committee. I'm asking, Your Honor, to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the committee's first proposal, no, I'm sorry, I'm asking the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law of Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:35:47]] For-0 Calm down, dear fellows! I now put to the vote: the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land in a new edition with the Committee's proposals, such as have just been made. Registration number 3372. Please vote. [[13:36:23]] For 249 The law is passed. The factions? Please. I'm reading pros. "Our Ukraine" - 96, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communist factions - 57, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National agrarian - 20, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 2, "One Ukraine" - 0, Center - 10, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 16, Democratic initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 8. Let's move on to the short-term bill. The draft Law on State Support for the High-Technology Production of Electronic Products, developed under the State Science and Technology Program "The Picture Computer". Registration number 2625. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Yukhnovski Igor Rafailovich. Please, Igor Raphailovich. Suggested for the report in five minutes, dear colleagues. The answers to the questions are up to three minutes. Discussing and making a decision is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The law is adopted for the final implementation of the State Science and Technology Program "The Educational Computer", which was granted state status in 2000. A corresponding commission was given by the President of Ukraine since May 19, 2000. The Visual Computer program focused on creating the principle of new electronic machines and devices that are able to perceive and understand sounds, images, human language, handwritten texts, drawing, spatial and sound scenes, other images, translate from one language to another, describe images, etc. This wide range of image recognition is quite responsible for us, based on the achievements of the Ukrainian-Radians Information School, where similar topics were worked deeply in the interests of the military-industrial complex. The work was now carried out in close cooperation with the Ministry of Industrial Policy. Work was planned from the budget. In 2000, 1.3 million were allocated, 2001 - 3 million, 2002 - 2.5 million, 2003 - 6 million, 2004 - 5.4 million, 2005 - 4 million dollars. The work ends in 2010 with a total budget funding of 53 million dollars. At present, a series of domestic digital recorders is being launched, telephones of various modifications are being released in the spring, automatic lines are being set up, and a modern microelectronic enterprise is being created in Ukraine for the first time. The company is established at the base of the Kyiv plant Quante and the Revenn Radio Technology Plant. The Quant factory is owned by the state, the Plain Radio Plant is a VAT with 51 percent of the shares of state property. The law. The law proposes to provide tax relief for 5 years from the issuance of electronic products: benefits similar to those related to the projects of the parks, namely, exemption from income tax; added costs and import duties; installations and lines that are imported for the establishment of a new plant. The law proposes that the tax on land be exempt from the budget of local councils. This release refers to the Quant plants and the Ravens. And there was supposed to be a subsidy from the local budget. Rownen factory’s yard is 22.5 acres [22.5 ha] The problem of protecting the new factory from wild privatization is of particular concern. It was said that the plant is based on the WAT "Raine Radio Plant" and the "Quant" plant, which are now structurally linked to the "Information Technology" concert. According to the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property, the privatisation of State-owned shares is required to take place, as is the case, under a stock exchange competition, but under the condition that technology is fully maintained, factories are fully directed to produce according to the target State Program "The Epic Computer". Market-cost stock acquisition is a priority of the “Information Technology” concert. The law, which is passed, is unique -- the first to create the first country-owned high-tech production with the full application of the know-how of the former domestic military-industrial complex. The draft Law was followed by the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In a number of comments, the committee received satisfactory explanations. They will be brought to the attention of the law for a second reading. The committee proposes to adopt the law in the first reading. I want to say that the authors of the draft law are me and Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u146	Yes. Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's continue our work for 15 minutes, that is, 14 hours 15 minutes. Let's move on to a draft law that has just been introduced. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u147	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I also want to focus on this speech, but it does not give me the calmness and information that the patriots of Ukraine have told me, which I consider to be a Christian to hide from you today. Yes, I also address unbelieving Communists, who take the word of a Christian with laughter. Fear God, if you do not believe, do not mock anyone. My message concerns one goal. I do not want to allow the burning of the situation in Ukraine, which many have talked about in this rostrum. Today's Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich's visit to Western areas is scheduled for the next few days. Polytechnologists from other countries and from Banking Street planned that this visit would be planned for a large - scale provocation until possible physical destruction with serious consequences. I want to speak to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. I have a lot of questions for you, and I'm not a supporter of yours, but I can't allow your destruction. And I want to say that in Ukraine, there's going to be a fight of ideas and we're not going to let it split west and east, and that's the scenario that these polytechnologists want to show. I want to name the names of those entrusted with this action as Deputy Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Stanislav Volodymyrovich, Head of the Department of External Observation, Prilepko Aleksij Danilovich. The consequences are: the introduction of a state of emergency, because the tragedy is not just with the candidate, but with the current Prime Minister, who is to replace the President under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u148	Please, by subject, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u149	Next, the transfer of terms, I conclude, the election of the President and the further dissolution of the Supreme Council. Of course, the accusations will be "Our Ukraine." As far as the subject of this speech is concerned, I'm telling you, honourable national deputies, it's a serious lot of things that are at stake for our country's fate. Including the adoption of the project proposed by Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. I respect him very much. But I think it's a positive condition for privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u150	Then I'll give you a line before the vote. I'm paying attention, Your Honor, let's talk on the subject. Please, Nicholas instead of Melniczuk. After him, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u151	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Adam Ivanovich, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine. Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party, head of the Committee of Science and Education. Now the reverend academic of Yukhnowsky reported on his support for the Epic Computer program. This is about State support for the direction where Ukraine, where scientists at our academy, the National Academy of Sciences, have priority positions compared to even developed countries such as Japan, Korea and so forth. So it's about supporting a high-tech, scientific direction that will help Ukraine to become a level with other countries. Why do I say that? Because we have today a set of innovation laws, a set of tech park laws, other priority economic development zones. Sadly, all of this does not work. And Ukraine's economy today, despite the government's claims, is developing in an extensive way, thanks to the development of raw materials, through the development of raw materials. Two thirds of today in our product is raw material. [[pipes, metal, ore and the like]] Here, however, colleagues offer to support, first and foremost, electronic industries and, for example, computerization, the development of technologies that are not yet developed in the world. So given that 0.7 percent of our production is made up of scientific products, and this is a step towards increasing this percentage. And that means we're going to be trading, not raw materials, but intelligence, that we're going to be developing on the basis of new knowledge. I, on behalf of the committee, personally want to support this bill today and agree that it really doesn't meet all the requirements, it has some discussion issues, but as we discussed on the committee, it can be accepted in the first reading to take into account the proposals that George Carmazin was talking about. [[it's priority or not priority if it's privatization.]] I wouldn't rush to do that, because, according to colleagues, even privatization can be avoided today, removed from this problem, but developed high-tech computerization, new technologies are needed. I've seen this product. You say, say, a tiny computer that you have on your chest, and it translates it right here. I'm looking at the Joulinsky Academy and I won't have to, Mikola Grigorovich, even the dictionaries. This translator is going to be right on the person's chest. And I think that's going to help because Ukraine is going to be a really big country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u152	But dictionaries will have to be created. Please, Rodionov. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u153	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Respectable comrades! The Communist faction will also support the bill, as will almost all of the scientific and technological bills. But I would like to draw attention to how one of the sponsors of this project and the person working in this area is essential from three perspectives. I'm not going to deal with technology or technology. And the first is the political aspect. You know, over the past 13 years, we've been saying that Ukraine has lost the status of a high-tech state. It really is. To date, we have all the exports, you know what's behind them. Yes, raw materials. These are the only developments today that are competitive at this point. But I would like to emphasize something else. You know, competitiveness doesn't last forever. If we're a year, two, three is slow, it's tomorrow or the next, they'll look at it and they say it'll show up in another country and we'll be late. The second is the social dimension. Comrades, you remember, especially industrialists, that the largest jobs are in high-tech enterprises, they're in electronic industries, for example, the city of Kiev, almost all jobs in this area, and the creation of this production is thousands of jobs in the main and hundreds of jobs in the adjacent industries. Well, and if you say economics, of course, today is to consider profit early, but, nevertheless, there are readings that say here after that. First or sixth year, it could be a billion, well, more than a billion, if we can break into the market, and this is the market of Sony, Samesunga, Simensa. Of course, I'll say, none of them will give us any extra money to develop our high-tech products. Moreover, they will oppose it. Therefore, wherever a State wishes to go out on the market with such a product, it is supported by the State everywhere. Well, please, of course, focus and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u154	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u155	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! My colleague, Mikhailo Kuzmić Rodionov, made the arguments for the bill to be adopted. And so I have to stress, these arguments are so inconvenient and they inspire, hopefully, all of us to vote in favour of this bill. But what I'm surprised is that all the innovations that are presented in this bill and are proposed for support if they have not been sold before so far through our Ministry of Science and the Ukrainian Science and Technology Center. labs or some other scientific labs created on a large international capital. And the third thesis. Privatization issues related to the bill were mentioned. Of course, these issues need to be removed so that this bill is perfectly clean and it worked for the state of Ukraine and worked for our people, not on individual plots that are to be anointed, to conform to this bill. And the final part of my speech is that one of the previous speakers was offended by the fact that the Communists were laughing and joking about Christianity and Christ. No, we did not laugh or joke about Christianity and Christ. It's about the Christ-loving one. The soldier who spoke out of this rostrum is the protector of our Nazi homeland. And the Communist relationship, throughout the Communist Party of Ukraine and its leader, Peter Simonenko, with the Ukrainian Orthodox Father Church, has been quite tolerant and, more than that, well. And I want to say to the believers of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church: they will not wait for those who have been sold to church heresies in different ways to corrupt our good relations that are today with the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. And finally, I want to say that. People are good! Trust your conscience and believe what the church tells you and the Communist Party of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I think on such an optimistic call, we will support the law 100%. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the Act on State Support for the High-Technology Production of Electronic Products, developed under the State Science and Technology Program "The Picture Computer". Project registration number 5625. Please vote. [[13:55:24]] For 193 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 61, Ukrainian regions - 1, Communists - 57, Social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian - 15, Socialist - 19, Block Timoshenko - 18, Union, "One Ukraine", Center - 0, NDP - 15 Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 7. Once again, I put to the vote to support the bill as a basis for the first reading. Please vote. [[13:56:19]] For 209, Overruled. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Laws is being considered with the aim of eliminating double certification of food products. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Who's in charge of rereading? Please vote. [[13:56:55]] For 215 Copy that. Please tell me, Mother. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u157	I have a request for everyone. Let us make a point on this point that the benefits provided for in this law will be looked at separately after the first reading. But from the budget, take the money and take the law now. And those who have doubts about the benefits need to see the benefits after the first reading. I'm asking you to support me. Look what's going on! Everything that's not science is supported. He's going to study what he's talking about. No one's backing it up. Let us at least support those who sit here with a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u158	I'm once again putting it on re-reading. Please vote. [[13:58:05]] For 223 Work it, it's down. Draft Act amending Ukraine's laws with the aim of eliminating double certification of foodstuffs. [[Registration number 3545]] National MP Bondarenko, please, 3 minutes, Volodymyr Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u159	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, block of Viktor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine". Dear friends! This bill has a complex destiny, because with the full support of the committee and a large group of national MPs, first of all the authors to whom I express great gratitude for the joint work, Mikoli Polishku and Alexander Slobodan, this bill was quite often placed in the agenda, but in a position that did not allow it to be considered. What are we talking about? Ukraine is a specific country where certification or control of food products is carried out immediately by three national authorities: the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the State Standards and the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Each of these should issue a separate document with a different name, which is practically based on the same research, but the result is obtained or authorised, or concluded, or veterinary certificate. So again, we have a whole group of different documents. In order to obtain these documents, someone who today imports coffee, fresh fish that is not available in Ukraine, has to go around all of these services, and it takes a lot of time, and it actually makes production more than 1.5 percent more expensive. So our consumers get more expensive products, because the cost goes to this penetration of these certificates. It is known that there is a practice in the world to accept certificates from other countries for a particular type of product, and the state only certifies that it has not been certified or has not been certified. We have a process of reducing the area of joint certification agreements in Ukraine, less and less of which are becoming countries, unfortunately, because internal bureaucracy creates conditions for them to worship three times each type of product. At the same time, every element of raw material that goes into the production of the finished product is certified, as is the product that is prepared, which is now a virgin not only to the Ukrainians but also to all who are studying the system. After all, we are interested in the prepared product so that it is of good quality. At the same time, you can accept a certificate of quality of production, there, coffee, chocolate coming from abroad, and the finished Ukrainian product has to be certified. Moreover, such a complicated certification system leads to more than a month for the process itself, since the product itself has a storage life and consumption capacity of sometimes three, four, eight days, such as fresh fish. This disagreement has already led us to have very complex positions regarding fish from Norway, which simply refuses to put these products in Ukraine. Thus, this bill removes all of these inconveniences and creates a condition under which one normal certification will have to be carried out, and the two laws that are in force today also have to be reconciled. These positions are at the heart of the law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the profile committee also offers support. Let's support it. I'm voting on the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law for the Elimination of Double Certification of Food Products, registration number 3545, on the basis of. Please vote. [[2:02:05]] For 216 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -90; Regions -1; Communist -57; Social-Democracy and "Democracy" -0; National Agrarian -18; Socialist -11; Block Timoshenko -19; Alliance, "One Ukraine", "Centre" -0; NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -16; Deminiciative -0; Non-Frakation -4. Let's mobilize, I'll put it to the vote again. Vote. [[2:02:51]] For 207 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 82; Regions - 1; Communists -55; Social Democrats and Hard Ukraine - 0; People's Agriculture - 17; Socialists - 12; Block Timoshenko - 18; Alliance, "One Ukraine", "Centre" - 0; NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 15; Deminiciates - 0; Non-fractional - 7. I'm asking our Ukraine and the socialists to mobilize a little bit. Yes, please turn on the ticker microphone. Here's Polchuk's coffee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I'd like to say that this is an extremely important bill, it removes a lot of the inaccuracies that today confuse certification and import of many products that can be imported into Ukraine. And I ask you to mobilize, vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote again. Please vote. [[14:04:28]] For 225 You won't fight if I put it to the vote again. But this is the last time. Vote. [[14:05:05]] For 235 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues. I'm ready to go back to science, but we don't have the votes, and we don't have enough. Well, let's make sure. If he gives 100 percent of our Ukrainian votes, we'll come back. There's a bill amending the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act on animal products. Please, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, who is the position of the committee. 3770, this is Master's Project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The Agrarian Policy Committee, the Land Relations Committee, has considered the above - mentioned bill and proposes to support it, considering that Ukraine has made international commitments, considering that we are preparing to join the WTO, considering the current disease situation in Europe. But I would like to draw your attention and note it from my side. The law provides for control in the slaughter of cattle on the prairies. That is, to contaminate those diseases that are in Europe today. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these tests can only be performed in the case of cattle slaughter in special laboratories. The cost of one study is $50. Ukraine kills 2.5 million cattle each year. Let's multiply it by $50. Do we today have $125 million in the budget to carry out the above analysis? Therefore, the law can be adopted when it is adopted, but it can only be adopted in the final edition if the budget is funded.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u164	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, let's support the committee. Please vote for adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act. [[concerning animal products]] Registration number 3770. Please vote. [[14:07:57]] For 131 The law is rejected. I remind you that the authors of this bill are not voting on it. Yes, the question is being answered. For one more time? Please, I'm betting on rerouting first, please. Before the vote, please cancel. Carmazine's Microphone with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u165	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! You know, we signed up to express our opinion on this, and at least a minute before that, we have to be motivated. Today, the price of meat has risen to 40 dollars. If another 260 bracelets are added for analysis, the meat will increase further in price. Let's think about the Ukrainian people. Do we need such a law today, or do we not need it? So I'm thinking about re-reading. You don't have to enforce this law. We have to think about our Ukrainian people, and we still have to go to Europe in every way, so we have to do everything in the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u166	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'm betting on re-reading the bill, please be sure. [[14:09:42]] For 109 The bill was rejected. The draft Law on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens to the Land is being complied with. [[on the cost of producing documents]] Registration number 5391. Yeah, the committee's offering to support it. Vote. I put to the vote acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens on Earth. [[on the cost of producing documents]] Bill 5391 registration number. Please vote. [[14:10:30.]] For-195 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 73, "Regions" - 1, Communists - 58, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian - 15, Socialists - 10, Tymoshenko - 14, "Soyuz", "Only Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 3, NDP, industrialists, entrepreneurs - 15, "Dem. Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 6. Please, Pinzenica microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u167	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, many millions of our fellow countrymen, are turning to those who live in rural areas for extremely high prices related to documenting private property rights to land. In this regard, dear colleagues, we will support this very important document, which sets limits on the amount of wages collected from our peasants by the appropriate authorities. Please return to the vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u168	Victor Mikhailovich, thank you. But I'm asking your faction to mobilize. There's no objection to putting us to the vote? Then the vote on the adoption of the draft Law on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens to the Land on the Cost of Documents is put to the vote. Registration number 5391. Please vote. [[14:12:14]] For 212 Peanut, please. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I understand that I may not have voted because of political views. Everyone today understands that it is necessary to help peasants, that this is the only document that can regulate the price of government acts. So the request is: perhaps we should take it back to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Please show me your previous ballots on factions. "Our Ukraine" is 85 and so on. Socialists - 7. Please, Melniczuka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u171	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, let's still listen to Mr. Pinzenic's statement. And let's remobilize, because, in fact, today this is the situation. So let's solve this node. We're on our way, we're off, we're off. So let's do it again. I ask you very much, Adam Ivanovich, once again for the vote, please, this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u172	A word. Better when it's done. I put the last time to the vote a draft law on the protection of citizens'constitutional rights to land, registration number 5391. [[on the cost of producing documents]] Everyone in the room understands the importance and necessity of adopting this law. Let's be friendly with him. [[14:14:28]] For 231 The factions, please. Decision taken. "Our Ukraine" - 87, Ukrainian regions - 1, communists - 58, Social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - zeros, National Agrarian Party - 18, Socialist Party - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16, Union, One Ukraine - zeros, Center - 6, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 16, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 9. Dear colleagues, if it were your will, we would have to make one decision. On the development of a social welfare programme in areas affected by radioactive pollution in the Chernobyl AES, natural gas for 2005-2010, and population security programmes that live on contaminated areas in the Chernobyl AES, high-quality drinking water. We have two drafts here. I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues to mobilize and let's support it. The draft decree number 5280 shall be voted upon. Recommends a profile committee to take this decision as a whole. Vote. [[14:16:11]] For 224 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 91, Ukrainian regions - 1, Communists - 56, Social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - zero, National Agrarian Party - 17, Socialists - 19, Block Timoshenko - 15, Union, "One Ukraine", Center - zero, NDP, industrial - 16, Democratic initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 9. Come on. Ready? I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the bill, a more faithful draft decree number 5280 as a whole. Please vote. [[14:17:11]] For 240 It's been decided. Another order for number 5351. The profile committee also offers to take as a whole, but since we have adopted the previous one, it is clear that the decision has been taken. Dear colleagues! At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council. Wait, please. Rabbit microphone, please. Are these different decisions? These are different decisions, so this decision must also be made. Please insert the cards. Says the committee of profile, the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Ivan Aleksandrovich, that these are different decisions. That's why I'm voting. Please, Rabbit microphone. Please. Understand? For now, the microphone, please, the Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I can't help but say that we don't have MPs in the session room right now. At a time when Presidential candidate Viktor Janukovic stresses that critical issues need to be addressed, there are no factions. It's a destructive position, an obstructionist position. It's an attempt to disrupt Parliament's work, and despite that, we are able to adopt some very important laws for our constituents. I want Victor Fedorovich's attention: you've been set up! You can't do that! If you really want to be seen as someone trying to solve painful, thirsty, burning issues, you need your factions to work in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-06-m0.u174	Ready? The draft Resolution 5351 on adoption as a basis and as a whole is put to the vote. Please vote. [[14:20:19]] For 229 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for your fairly productive work today. At this evening. The morning session is closed. And then there's work on the committees. Tomorrow the session will begin as usual at ten o'clock.
