ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u1	Good morning. Ah, unless it's morning. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I'm asking you to register. On the board is the name of the national deputies who have registered. [[13:16:20]] There were 425 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, Bubki Sergio Nazarovic, Vojsja Vladimir Dmitrovic. Let us welcome them, wish them good health and success in their difficult political activities. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In harmony with article 2.2. and 4.2. 3 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine" since 3 December 2004 No. 10 of the report that the authorized representatives of this faction have been elected by the national deputies of Ukraine: Gladys Vasil Ivanovich, Dasutin Grigorija Petrovich, Josef Yulia Jakovič, Noschenka Mikoli Petrovich, Flood Michael Mikhailovich. In accordance with article 13, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, article 4, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules and the protocol for the meeting of the Ukrainian "Region of Ukraine" in the Supreme Council since 02.2004, issue 106 informs about the expulsion of Ukrainian national deputies Zevago Valentinina Valentinović, and Verevski Andrija Mihajlovich from the deputy faction of the "Region of Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, there's still a number of announcements about the exit of the National Deputies from the faction, and I'll announce them later. Well, they're on my desk. Calm down, you'll be happy again. Dear colleagues, we held meetings of the 11 - hour Conciliation Council. I have to tell you that we're almost close to compromise to take one vote and make one decision in the package. We have a big request. May I have your attention, please? We have a big request. Allow the Conciliation Board to work until 2 p.m. And at 14 o'clock, we're going to have our final flashing session with a big score. Thus, a break of up to 14 hours is announced. At 2 p.m., please be in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u2	Invite the deputies to the session room, we'll continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of Andresuk Boris Pavlovich from the parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputies Gaddaecki Leonid Mikolaiovich and Cassianek Alexandr Volodymyrovich from the parliamentary faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine". [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, allow me to brief you on what the Conciliation Council has been doing for two days. During the two days that we have been discussing the organization of our work, the issues we need to consider in order to resolve the political situation, in order to make those decisions and the commitments we have made, the agreements we have signed, including with the participation of international mediators. Yesterday, about 23 hours ago, we practically reached agreements. There is one issue that we have not identified: whether it is the appointment of the heads of the local government administrations, or whether it is to leave as envisaged by the current Constitution under the President of Ukraine on the basis of the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, or from first September 2005 to transfer these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the second problem surrounding the debate is that it gives us the right to exercise general oversight of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. We actually agreed, well, calm down, I'm saying what was going on at the conciliatory council, and I'm asking you to calm down. We've practically agreed, we've all agreed that we need to put the Constitution into effect since September 1, 2005, and we've also worked on, and we've worked on, honourable colleagues, transitional positions and we've deleted in article 4, if I'm not mistaken, in the transitional positions of government formation, it remains that after the new President's oath has been made, the government has to give its mandate to the newly elected President of Ukraine, that is, everything that's been in place of the Constitution and we've made the appropriate deletions, I say because there have been some distortions, we've made these changes. We discussed in detail yesterday the Ukraine Presidential Elections Act, which I am referring to making appropriate changes, clarifications and additions in order to implement not only the decisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, because we do not need to make any changes in order to implement the decisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Because there's a rule of conduct in three weeks according to the principles of the second round of elections. So this is actually a second round vote. But given the difficult points, considering that you and I have passed a law that deals with hard-core certificates that pertain to voting at home, a draft law has been drafted to make it impossible, even hypothetically, for any forgery. And we agreed to make the first and second decisions. But in the morning, I want to tell you about the two issues that we've had in discussion and problems, a whole group of new proposals that have taken the form of an ultimatum have been added. I'm talking about it frankly because the Supreme Council and I, as the Head of the Supreme Council, have made any concessions in order to keep the agreement, so that the Supreme Council will remain the only centre of compromise for the decision-making of the state. But the great regret when we were one step before making a decision was just ruined. So right now, I'd like to ask Alexander Alexandrovich to let him know, because we're not going to have one minute, Anatoly Sergiyovich, sit down, please. Then we agreed, dear colleagues, that after these decisions were made, we agreed that we would consolidate them. The President of Ukraine will sign them at the same time and offer us proposals for a new composition of the CBC. Proposals for a new CLTC were proposed by MPs and factions in the number of one candidate of 30 national deputies. So it's all been taken care of. Unfortunately, we're not going to be able to take this next step right now. I want to say it again. What we agreed, I want to say again for those directly MPs who don't want to listen. They just want to hear themselves. I want to say that we agreed on the Conciliation Council that when we make these decisions, the President's laws sign them, and today we're just a faction, your faction has not yet submitted proposals for CBC. So how can you sign them?Oh, my God! You haven't even offered yet! They haven't made any suggestions yet. I promised I'd give it to Dusty, but I haven't given it yet. So let's not talk. If it suits you so that without the proposal of the faction of "Our Ukraine," the President has filed a motion, I will do it to you if you don't want to work alone. I won't be working for you all the time. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we have virtually no subject for today’s meeting because we have not reached any compromise. Please write it down for five minutes. The nameboard of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u3	Please pass the word to John Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u4	Ivan Plush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u5	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to address you first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I know how difficult it is for you. But you don't work for anyone. Not for the faction, not for the MP, you work for yourself, for as long as you have enough stress and nerve. That's the first one. I feel sorry for you, but you can't work for others. Now the second one. Who made the offer, who did not make the offer, and for what? Dear National Deputies! Dear ones who can hear us! The Supreme Council, as the only political higher legislative body in the state on November 27, met at its meeting. After substantive, constructive, lengthy discussions, contentions, agreements, and so forth, she made decisions for me, who would still be describing and who would be as they entered and so forth. But what has this decision been made to date? Just one word? Is it that you don't trust the C.V.C.K.? Was it that there were other points? The president simply said that this is a political decision and there is no basis for it. Is that a fact? Fact! Now it's next. Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u6	Please turn on the microphone. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm sorry. We have decided 1.12 to resign the government, the decision is fully in line with both the Constitution and so forth. What's done? Nothing about this decision. It's also called a third. So today we have the Supreme Court's decision and all the bodies concerned must carry it out. What did we do? We have taken up reform today again under some kind of agreement and arrangement. I say on behalf of Viktor Andriyovich that all of his contractual terms with the Socialists he will fulfill, all of his contractual terms with the MPs will be fulfilled. And he promised the people that he would reform, but one that the people would support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say this. We should, for example, show the Supreme Council an example of how it executes its decisions. Let us read the 27 - number decree, John Stepanovich, and see that the Supreme Council does not carry out its points. Let the Supreme Council carry out its positions and then require the President. This is the first moment. One second. Calm down, reverends! I've listened to you all the time and done everything you said, and listen now. Now for the second moment. Dear colleagues! It was agreed with the President, and yesterday it was confirmed during the factions and government meetings that after the Supreme Court of Ukraine's decision, the CEC should retransmit and send us a decision. After that, the President of Ukraine, and was invited to make proposals the day before yesterday for the composition of the CBC. But once again, I want to state that there are no proposals. And then they'll say our thoughts aren't taken into account. And when the CIA today at 11.30 a.m. made the appropriate decision to execute the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on this, its historic mission ended. Then we should form a new CBC. Before that, we would have destroyed that CBC and made no other decision. It's been agreed, it's clearly said, and you all know it. On another point, yes, there is a failure. But let us go and make our own decisions, demand that we make other decisions. Please, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u9	I'm asking you to pass the word to Richter's Rajis Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u10	Please, Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! I think we're living in such a political time right now that it's compressed more than physical time. And it's up to you and me today, night and night and tomorrow. So, I want us all to go back to those political arrangements and the legal ones that still have to get the right to life today, not the right to power, the power of law. And that's why I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u12	Well, please. Well!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u13	And that is why I want to go back to those agreements signed by all the parties for the participation of international intermediaries signed by all the interested parties. And the party represented by the country of Leonid Kuchma as President and by Vladimir Litwin, who is the head of the Supreme Council and Victor Yushchenk and Victor Yanukovitch and the international experts who looked like that, so that's what it was made of.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u14	Yes, please, in two minutes, we agreed
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u15	The vote in the package of political reform, the amendments to the President's Elections Act and the referral to the Constitutional Court of Bill 3207-1, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" today adheres to all the agreements and proposes that "Our Ukraine" and the Faction of BUIT also adhere to these agreements and today vote for political reform in a package with these bills that you are interested in, otherwise everyone must know that it is our Ukraine and the BUIT that do not comply with any agreements and agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u16	Petrov, Communist faction, please. Simonenko's passing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u17	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u18	Peter's handing over the right to speak to Peter Simonenko in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, the Supreme Council has spent two years looking for a solution to the main question: What will be the authority we have in Ukraine in the near future: will it be transparent, honest, responsible, criminal, oligarchical, and virtually simply banditry? For 2 years, we fought for political reform to determine, today, political reform after the last statement by the "Our Ukraine" faction is blocked. Secondly, the faction's proposals have already been made regarding the composition of the CBC, and I testify and confirm that. Today the Conciliation Council was ready to submit to the Supreme Council a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, blocked by those who did not want us to implement the earlier decision, and this again has a bearing on "Our Ukraine", thirdly, the ruling of 27 November predicted that from 1 to 3 December we would consider political reform, "Our Ukraine" blocked the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision. Four. Yushchenko signed and declared to the world that he was willing to consider both changes to the Presidential Elections Act and political reform. And he has shown to all the world that he is not going to do all the things he owes. Like yesterday, "Our Ukraine" testified that the software position of candidate Yushchenk to recall our military formations from Iraq, "Our Ukraine" remained on the American side yesterday. That's why I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that in this case the work of the Supreme Council is productive and effectively blocked by the faction "Our Ukraine" and the Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u20	Nestor Schufric, please, the faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u21	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectable fellow countrymen, respected colleagues. Today we are gathered in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Saturday to resolve the crisis that is now present in our society. We have done our utmost to find ways to unite supporters, both Victor Yushchenka and the 15 million who voted for Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Today, we are ready to make all the compromises. We cannot accept yesterday's decision by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, but we cannot disrespect it. The Constitution and laws of Ukraine do not work for us like our colleagues in "Our Ukraine." We respect the laws, we respect the Constitution. And we're going to do it, including that decision. By the way, this decision stipulates that under the 85th article of the current Ukrainian Election Act, on December 26, we have to vote. We'll do it. It's a requirement of the law, and we're only going this way. Dear colleagues, we have commitments that are sealed by the signatures of two candidates, President Kwasniewski, Adamkus, Javier Solana, the speaker of the Russian Grisslow State. I'm not talking about our president or our speaker anymore. If it weren't for those commitments, we'd be back Saturday, believe me, we're not in this room. We're ready to compromise, we're ready to build a democratic society. Dear colleagues, do you need absolute authority? Go and get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u22	Alexander Baranowski. It'll be two minutes. So let's do it this way. Calm down, I'm begging you. Two minutes from each faction, it'll be fine. Let's exchange thoughts and that's it. Baranowski is handing over Alexander Frost, to prepare for Julia Timoshenko's block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I am committed to the words of John Stepanovich Plush. Really, everyone's doing their job, but I don't know what I was sitting here last night, agreeing on the positions your faction expressed. First. It's different. 27 numbers, voting here, we've adopted a decree that envisions December 1st and 3rd to consider and adopt changes to the Constitution. Where's the deal? And why are you protesting this? Let's move on. I'd like to keep my mouth shut. Because I know how to close my mouth, too. To speak essentially. That's it. Yuschenk Victor Andrievich and I signed a deal. About his support to our party, and none of you can throw a stone into the city, because our structures worked 20 times better than yours, you know, and guarantee the holding of Yushchenk. But we agreed that by January 1st the changes would be made, the promotion would be from "Our Ukraine." Now we see what it is. It's not written, don't lie, I'm sorry. Finally. There was one situation yesterday. As long as there was no court decision, everyone was in agreement because it was unknown how it would be made. We're going to make changes to the Constitution, we're going to establish democracy in Ukraine. Today, there is a court decision. As it was accepted, another matter. But it is, it must be done. Now, today, the situation has changed. Please do not use false arguments about the fact that specific powers remain behind the Cabinet of Ministers, and it will work. No! No! We've removed it from the transitional positions, it's not in the position, John Alexanderovich, I'm addressing it. So once again, please give me three seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u24	Please. It's been removed. It's been removed. It's an old project, let your members of the Board of Conciliation inform you. It's been removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u25	I repeat, the Conciliation Council, please take today's decision that from paragraph four of the transitional regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u26	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u27	The phrase "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, formed up to the day of the President's election in 2004, continues to carry out constitutional powers after the law has become effective" was deleted because it was being prepared for a project that was to be introduced immediately after the election of the President. And today, the rule continues that after the election of the President, let's say three weeks later, the Cabinet of Ministers will be in charge of him. And it's a valid norm of the Constitution. So I repeat, the only possible condition is to vote on the amendments to the Constitution, and then to vote on all the other norms provided for in the agreement, one, two and three. There's no other way out. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko's block. Please, Julia Volodymyr. Get ready for the only Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u29	Dear friends, first of all, I'm talking to those people who are listening to the radio right now. And the question is that Yushchenko and his team signed a document saying that we're going to be carrying out constitutional reform, but not in a package. There is no such word in a common statement as a package. This is from Soviet times when it was necessary to buy a plastic bucket with oil. I ask you, this is absolute legal nihilism -- to link changes to the Constitution with changes to the Electoral Act. This is absolutely impossible from a legal point of view. And that's why I'm asking you, first of all, to raise these two questions. People today, all over the country and now under the Supreme Council, are awaiting fair elections. And for someone who doesn't want to vote for changes to the law, which provides for order in elections, just say it so simply and honestly, and don't hide behind the changes to the Constitution. We are ready to consider the changes to the Constitution with our partner, the leader of the Socialist faction, I have negotiated personally, and it has been agreed that we are undergoing constitutional reform by 1 January 22005 after the election of the President, the conclusion. I ask you now to know that we will not give up our obligations, but we must now make changes and additions to the President's Election Act in order to conduct the second round properly. And I'm addressing everyone without excluding MPs, so let's sort this out. There can be no law that provides for falsification. And I think it's urgent that a bill of amendments and additions be put to the vote. And then there's the question of changing CVA, and, by the way, resigning the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u30	30 seconds to complete. Then it's from motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u31	And now I wanted people to hear that the President of Ukraine Kuchma, who is currently in charge, has to make a new composition for the Central Electoral Commission and he has to sign that bill that we're about to accept with you and send the government to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u32	One minute, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! I understand that not everyone has a joint statement under your hands right now, please listen carefully, the 4th paragraph of the joint statement presented to the entire world reads: "The parties have agreed to adopt in a package amending the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine," political reform, amending the Constitution of Ukraine in accordance with Project 4180 and forming on these principles of the government of Ukraine. Too bad Victor Yushchenko doesn't share with his partner what he's signing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u34	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear friends. Let me say a few words. Calm down, listen. You've been listened to, listen to others. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th constituency, One Ukraine faction, head of the People's Power Party. Dear colleagues, and dear friends, and a respectful people who listen to me. Today, two clans are fighting for power. And the people are cracking, you know. And we came up with something that they can't share today. And think about what's going on in the street today. Prices traveled between 30 and 40 percent. Today, the bracelet fell twice. They're already paying for the euro, they're giving 12 bucks, and they're giving 10 bucks for the dollar. Today, if the Supreme Council continues to play, you know, there was a "Salmon Bull" story. All the teeth were stuffed into a straw bull, and they were starved to death. That's what we're going to have. Today the Supreme Council should vote. Don't play with any reforms. Vote for the amendments to the Presidential Elections Act and vote for the budget. Because there's going to be an old budget today. No higher pensions, no higher wages, no higher living minimum, nothing's gonna happen. And we were chosen by the people! And we must think for the people! To the state! For us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u36	Yes. Who's going to be speaking from the MP's Alliance? Basil Nadrag. Prepare from the NDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u37	Deputy Group “Soyuz”, Vasily Nadraga, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Respectable radio and television, viewers, all Ukrainian citizens! We, in our own kind of MP group, talked about what we should do, we only understood one thing, which, unfortunately, is the kind of emotion that covers everyone today. Both the current room and my previous colleague's statement show that everyone thinks he's absolutely right. We think the rights are slightly different. This is a little bit about the following. Only if we hear each other, if we catch each other and take steps against each other, then we'll get something. Based on this logic, we have supported a package vote as that mechanism to address most of the problems that exist today, and I am not afraid of that pathetic word, the mechanism, i.e. to vote all the laws together, has been highlighted, including the participation of international mediators, the participation of two candidates in the President-in-Office. In the end, we had an official statement with you that everyone who wanted or said that he wanted order in that country had agreed to fulfil their obligations. Unfortunately, we don't have that today. Some believe that they have already won and therefore refuse to make preliminary arrangements. Others, I think it's fair, they don't agree to go to the fifth because there was an agreement. So the point of the problem is: without changing the Constitution, without changing the electoral laws, without changing the CLTC, if we don't get it together, we're not going to get it. And we agree with the view expressed that if we do not have the opportunity to agree, there is no point in us sitting in this room and saying compliments or compliments to each other in coffee. So it's probably the right thing to do if we don't understand each other, we're going around the county, we're going to work for the people on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u38	Yes, from the faction of the People's Democratic Party, industrialists and entrepreneurs of the Desert Tenko Valery Pavlovich. Let's move on. What factions do we have?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u39	Dear citizens! Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! After my election as Ukrainian national deputy, I conscientiously go to work every day, and this week it was the same. There was a meeting of the Coordinating Board. and Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, where he read a joint statement that was made and signed at the round table. We've identified seven issues there that, in principle, solve all the issues of resolving the political crisis that has arisen in our country. I've come to the faction meeting, and we've asked questions about the disclosure of executive organs, and it's not done, and it's not done, and it's not resolved, exactly, a package of agreements on the decisions that are taken on the Elections Act and on the implementation of political reform. I want to tell our citizens right now, I'm resigning the government. The question is solved. I'm asking you not to interrupt me. I want to tell our citizens that political reform is the basis of our Constitution. This is the mandate that is allocated between the President of Ukraine, between the Cabinet of Ministers and the local executive authorities. And today, if we don't carry out political reform, we don't have the right to hand over the power that is vested in today's President. I support the vote for political reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u40	Yes, please, from the Center of Ivanov to prepare the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, don't you think that we are, in fact, ordinary to us, once again turning our meeting into such a common mess. The faction leaders go, there's a deal, then they come back to us, something tells us something doesn't tell us what we understand, something we don't understand. Well, what are the realities of today? Why do we suddenly mix political reform with the functions of the President? Why, when we say it was, was the agreement, indeed, where Yushchenko signed it, and the other members who participated at that round table, why we cannot raise it very clearly today, let Martinuk read it again to us, because what he read for the hall is not clear to all. And I would like to read it again on specific items. And most importantly, let us not confuse God's gift with eggs, if there are laws to be passed by Parliament, on the CLTC in this case should be adopted by the President, so let the President do what he is asked to do, Parliament is doing what is laid down for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u42	Yes, please, from the people's agrarian party, Michael Gladys, to prepare for "Trouble Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished friends we are one step ahead of the completion of the process in the state, that is, the conclusion of the election of the President of Ukraine, and it would be logical today to consider the bill of amendments and the election of the President and to put a dot, but how much tension and there is no consensus today I see that we are not going to solve any question today. Dear friends, if you put the vote in a packet, our faction against voting in a bag, you'd better close the session on that and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u44	Yes, please, from "Trouble Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u45	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, I think we are missing a huge chance to take a step towards a democratic country, a rule of law. I think we're just missing it, I understand the indignation of Alexander Alexander Moroz, with whom we worked for a very long time on the Constitutional Commission, because it worked from letter to letter it was him, as they say. And he's absolutely right, I support him, absolutely in that regard. We made compromises until late last night. He's gone. That's why I agree completely. The Hard Ukraine faction invites us once again, when possible, to find this compromise. If that's not possible, I think that the right head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, should close and break up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u46	"Democratic Initiatives," please, Stepan Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, for five years now political reform has united and divided the Ukrainian political elite. And the whole of modern Europe has also been the subject of this discussion. The aim of the reform is not only to balance the system of power but also to reconcile our intransigence, which is so common in this session room. The search for compromises, and more precisely today, consensus shows an example for Ukrainian society, whether we will live in harmony, or whether we will continue to break the Ukrainian statehood. If we do not carry out political reform, the December 26 contest, despite all expectations and hopes, will lead to an even deeper conflict in Ukraine. And so the only way to show society that we are, in fact, real leaders in the future and in the development of Ukrainian statehood is to change the system of power that we are critical of today for many years. But the main question is, Is this our real goal for everyone? Of course not. Isn't it an attempt to make such a shaky political. And finally, the President, the future president must not only be a legitimate person supported by the majority, but preferably by the entire Ukrainian nation, because that depends on the success of us in today's global world, in competition not only for the markets, but also for the place of Ukrainian ethnosia. I believe that the President must also be binding. And when there is a signature on an international document, which is a political memorandum, which is lit up across all channels of world agencies, giving up on it is wrong today. And I think there's time for compromise. I appeal to Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka to pursue a political reform that will allow us to unite our joint efforts in the name of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. All came from factions. May I have your attention, please? They're entitled to Simonenko and Frost. Names were mentioned. Please, Peter Simonenko, then Alexander Frost. Remember, I'm writing it down. Not to mention yours, John Alexanderovich, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. It's not the first time I've responded to any of the charges against the Communist Party of Ukraine, I'm saying, all the charges are this stupid powerlessness that it's trying to lie against us Communists today. Because what we've been up against and warned about is, unfortunately, but it's happening. We warned that the battle of the clans would break up Ukraine and split Ukraine. Not only territorially, people were divided. People have divided those who want to live in a single, peaceful Ukraine. And today the color of the political forces that are taking part in the elections is changing. And it's no accident today that people are afraid of what looks like the events of 1932-1933, but in another state. And it's that again and again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u50	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. My last name was not here except what Ioffe called. The head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine was named. But since we have one head of the Socialist Party, that obviously applies to me. I want to say that the negotiations with Victor Andrievich Yashchenk about our mutual agreement I led one by one at his house because he was sick. And I don't need middlemen, even in women's faces. I think that's enough to answer for myself. And you don't have to comment on me. One. The other one. Unfortunately, in one way, we try to avoid others by winning something. None of this is going to win, nor are those who today have sincerely believed in the intentions of the people who have been called here, nor will the state and society win. Either we agree, or there will be the same injustice that we see today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u52	John the Rabbit was mentioned by name, and he also has the right to a replica. The name John the Rabbit was mentioned. Please calm down. He has the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u53	Dear friends, everyone here is talking about law enforcement, about commitment. I remind you that the government is retired, and so is the CEC. Until Janukovic and Kuchma have implemented the Constitution on the Government's departure and after the formation of the new CBC, you have no moral right to complain to us that we do not comply with any agreements. The other one. We're talking about adopting the Presidential Election Bill, but we already have the President's reaction today, which vetoed a bill on the non-use of resilient certificates. So this once again shows that the President does not want to fulfill our obligations! So our position is to reach out to the President today. from Yanukovic to uphold the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine! The CEC should be formed a new one, the government should resign, the President's Election Act should be adopted, signed. Then we can talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-04-m0.u54	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. All right, I'm asking you to drop everyone's hands. Let me try again with no emotion to explain what we talked about for two days. Dear colleagues, we have come out of what we need to do, first of all, those positions that relate directly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which have been reflected in the decisions taken by the Supreme Council so that the Supreme Council has the moral right to require the President of Ukraine to exercise those positions that apply to the President of Ukraine. Regrettably, I have to say with regret that we do not fulfill our obligations, at least we do not seem to go through the path we need to go through. We have agreed, honourable national MPs, that we should go today to adopt amendments to the Presidential Elections Act in order to prevent any accusations of voting in the use or of an administrative resource or some technology that goes beyond the law, but we understand the complexity of all this procedure because, in accordance with the Supreme Court of Ukraine's decision, there is a valid legal basis for such actions. We agreed, and yesterday, I want to say once again, we agreed, in fact, with the exception of two clauses, that today we will vote in a package of at least 300 votes and we will take a decision to amend the Law. Alexander Aleksandrovitch said if he had to tell us again what we agreed on. We agreed that we would vote immediately, not in two readings, not in three readings of amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, we agreed that we would approve and refer Bill 3207 to the Constitutional Court. We agreed that once the relevant decisions have been made, the President of Ukraine will sign these documents and submit them on the basis of the proposals of the parliamentary groups and factions on the formation of the Central Electoral Commission, only this approach allows us to quickly and expeditiously solve the problem, but this approach allows us to show, in addition to everything else, that we have the Supreme Council, which is consolidated, this approach allows us to find compromise, this approach finally allows all to preserve our faces so that there are no winners and winners. And the rest. Such an approach will show the world’s societies that the agreements we have signed are being implemented. That the interests of all parties are taken into account. Tell me, please, what is wrong here on a moral scale, what is wrong here on a political scale, and what is wrong here on a legal scale? Once again, dear colleagues, if you don't want to work, dear green light the Supreme Court has opened for re-voting, let's close the meetings and gather at the right time. I don't see any other suggestions. That's why we've got our hands on it, Your Honor. I can put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Let's see if there's the Supreme Council's will. Who's in charge of considering three laws in the package: 4,180, draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine? 3207 - 1. Draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine to improve the system of local self-government. And 6372. Draft law on the specificities of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine in the re-vote in December 2004. A signal vote to demonstrate your will. Please vote. Signal vote. Signal, I'm underlining again. [[16:05:08]] For 249 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is zero, "Ukraine's Regions" is 57, Communists 58, SDPU - 32, People's Agrarian - 8, Hard Ukraine - 16, SPU - 19, Block Timoshenko - zero., Alliance - 14, "One Ukraine" - 12, SDP-PTU - 10, Center - zero. " Democratic Initiatives " - 13. Postfaction is 10. I mean, there's no desire. The next moment. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, this signal vote was. I've announced that this is a signal vote to check. Explain it to a person because I don't know what she's yelling at. Explain and calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, since we agreed, please calm down and let's have a signal vote. We have no reason to vote for the decision. So calm down, please. Once again, I want you to calm down. Since a decision was made yesterday and we voted in favour of the decision to hold plenary meetings today and to hold plenary meetings tomorrow, the Conciliation Council decided to cancel those decisions and the draft decree is now in place. I'll put him to the vote now. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of draft decision 6387 amending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar plan for the 6th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call, please vote. There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[16:07:19]] For 247 Decision taken. I put to the vote a decision and generally a decision. 63. Change the vote. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0, Ukraine - 60, communist - 58, SDPU - 31, National Agrarian -15, Labour - 15, SPU - 12, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 14, Ukraine - 10, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 9, Center - 0, Democratic initiatives - 12, non-fraction - 11. I'm voting for a ruling as a ruling. Now, dear fellows. There is a clarification. We have accepted the Supreme Council's decree since December 3, that is, with precision. I'm reading. In a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3 December 2004 amending the calendar plan for the 6th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the 4th convening of the Conciliation Council of Plenary Meetings to exclude. [[by the word "December 5"]] I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. In general, this decree. [[16:08:44]] For 247 Yeah, 247. Decision taken. The meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is closed. In line with the calendar plan, if there are no other changes, we will hold our plenary session on December 14th. Thank you for your fruitful work.
