ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u1	Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. A total of 407 national deputies were registered. Dear National Deputies! At the opening of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic was invited to attend. [[Applause]] Please explain the results of the registration, please, because I have 408 national deputies registered. Please register again. 410 national deputies registered. The head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vasil Timofojovich Malerenko, head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Dmitry Mikitovich Pritika, who is also a human rights officer, Karpachov Nina Ivanovna, as well as invited other guests. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the next session of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies: the Montenegrin Leonid Mikhajlovich into the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine", Kaletnik Grigorija Mikolaiovich and Satsuka Volodymira Mikolaiovich as part of the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Valery Assadchev's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, of course, I am very sorry that, with your high level of democracy, you did not give your word of opposition. I want to remind you that there is a democratic principle, that the majority vote, and the minority speaks. It was the opposition that must have been given the word during your partisan act. Because we just read you the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted on October 17, 2002. And it says that the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine should be addressed and resolved in two successive sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a consistent manner. I think if you've asked lawyers a little bit, maybe you haven't adopted such bills about constitutional changes and you haven't held such successive sessions. And I want to remind you that you haven't even confirmed the order of the day of the extracurricular session. And you know that if the agenda is not approved, no question can be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before the end of the fourth session, we approved a calendar plan for today’s session. According to the calendar plan by the end of this week, we are scheduled to work in plenary mode. You are given a draft agenda for the day-to-day fourth session and a schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a week, which the Conciliation Council considered and approved yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a draft Supreme Council decree number 5061 on your hands, this is a draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It includes a list of organizational issues and reports proposed for consideration at the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, as well as Appendix 2, which is a list of the proposed day-to-day sessions of the fifth subject of the legislative initiative, which are not supported by the professional committees and individual MPs of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the procedure, I am voting on the draft decree along with the addenda. One minute, please log in with the procedure, let's log in. Please sign up. Light up on the board. Ten minutes is enough of the procedure? Yes, Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u5	Please pass the word to the MP Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u6	Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u7	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I understand you can do anything in the Ukrainian Parliament. But here I am holding a list of our Ukrainian faction bills that are not included in the agenda. That's three hundred bills. Secondly, I don't understand why, for example, there is a project in the list of rejected bills that relates to reports of spending some funds. Do we not want to control them? Why is it not possible for the MP to request the consideration of this bill? And according to the committee's decision, he's just being filmed. As an MP, I demand that this bill be considered. So our proposal is to postpone the order of the day session to Thursday, to take into account all proposals made by MPs or MPs and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u9	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that, of course, this order of the day was prepared in fairly secret conditions, because, frankly, I also don't understand why so many of the bills were not just rejected, not put into consideration, that is, not even the committees were looking at them. So I would say maybe not even Thursday, but wait another day and confirm it on Friday, because we can vote ad-hoc, beyond what we've lost to the south today. So I'm stressing that we can't now approve this agenda, beyond how it needs to be worked out, to verify those bills that haven't entered. And what I'm curious about is why is there no broadcast? I was told by my voters that there was no radio broadcast. Why? And how did this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u10	Yes, instead of Karnauha, Winsky. Not Winsky, but Nikolainka, I'm sorry, please. Regarding the broadcast, please look into it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u11	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, first, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine insists that we vote one of the first decrees made by Adam Martinyuk for us to vote every day so that we don't make any theater from the Supreme Council. The other one. We insist that this chapter, that the list of bills against which committees speak not to vote separately, should be included in the general list, as, say, the decision on the privatisation of Valentina Seminouk 4230, it is absolutely, its committee does not support it, but here the MPs in the room support, including the majority and minority. Let's say the Mikoli of the Rudzkov decision 5062 to support the training of Cubans, students who are helping us today in Chernobyl, too. [[5062]] And the main thing is that we insist that there be a law on budget changes, laws on budget changes, their entire complex, and the law on taxation of the income of natural persons in the part of rural taxation, in order to eliminate this underprivileged tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u12	Yes, Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u13	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to pass the word to Lechchenko, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u14	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u15	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For reasons that are not clear, Bill No. 3006, by Tkachenko, Lechchenko, Parubek, is not included in any of the lists. Bills 3372, 4050, 4050-1 are also not included. They all apply to making changes to the Earth Code, and they are urgent, they need an urgent solution. So I suggest we include them in the main project of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u16	Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, first of all, I join those who suggest that this decision be postponed to a certain level. Because this agenda project is very wrong. But for example, Volodymira Mikhailovich, there is not even a report by the Parliamentary Delegation to PARJE, and this report, for me, is not necessary for us to be able to talk about the relatively far-reaching decisions of PARJE, particularly the day before the debate on making changes to the Constitution. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I also draw your attention to a major error that is almost on the last page of this draft agenda for the day session. Since number 4105 calls for the final adoption of this project as a law. You know very well Volodymyr Mikhailovich that Decree 4105-P is now being introduced into the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And it is not possible to formulate such a question until the question is resolved, has there really been a prior approval of Bill 4105? We cannot go any further on this issue. Moreover, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there are no such bills as 4180, 3107 and other draft amendments to the Constitution that have already been voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the previous convening. This is particularly true of the amendment bill to the 98th article, on which the President's veto was imposed. For some reason this question is also not included in the agenda of the day’s session. In short, I propose that we postpone the decision-making process, because this is the wrong order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as far as the proposals of the faction "Our Ukraine" are concerned. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, when we considered this issue, no claims were made on this subject. Only yesterday, esteemed colleagues, the second number, came up with proposals from the faction when the plan had already been prepared. As for the report in Paris. As soon as the delegation is ready, and the head of the delegation, Boris Illrich Oilynik, says he needs time, I don't think we're gonna have a problem with that. With regard to document 4105, it is in line with the Supreme Council’s decision to include it in the order of the next session. Once they do, these documents will be determined. And that's why, dear colleagues, I want to put all three of them. To preserve the right of every national MP, I want to put to the vote a draft decree on the order of the day session with plugins: first and second. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[16:18:34]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Well, factions have nothing to show for it, dear fellows! It's all clear. Please, Roman Zvaric of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u18	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, as you have just ascertained, the session hall has agreed, in principle, to the position of the faction "Our Ukraine", which cannot be included in the agenda of the day session of the consideration of question 4105. Since the issue is now being brought before the Constitutional Court, and to establish here in Parliament that 4,105 was previously approved, the final decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine would be a major violation of the procedure for passing this bill. So I ask you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put this issue aside and also to include in the agenda other bills that relate to the amendment of the Constitution. Including the bills voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the past convening, which have been vetoed by the President. They took turns first, and they must be considered here in the session before considering other bills that came forward later.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if the proposals are made in writing, I will put them all to the vote. I'm not putting anything to the vote. Let us follow the Rules. Therefore, honourable national deputies, let us continue to endure the procedure again. I'm voting on draft regulation 5061. Let me put it in order: first the project, then the apps. I'm putting to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the agenda of the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call without accessories. [[This is number 5061.]] Please vote. [[16:20:56]] For 303 Decision taken. I put to the vote, please note, appendix number one, "List of organizational issues and reports proposed for consideration at the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call." There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[16:21:26]] For 20 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote appendix number 2, "A list of additional bills proposed for inclusion in the agenda of the fifth session by subjects of the legislative initiative who are not supported by the professional committees and individual MPs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. There's the initiative of the national MPs, I'll put it to the vote. [[16:22:02]] For-7. Dear colleagues! By factions and so, I think so. When written proposals are made at your insistence, I will also put them to the vote. So far, the order of the day has been confirmed in this form that has been given to you. Question completed. A draft decree on how to explain the work of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call is announced for consideration. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! For your consideration, a decree is proposed to explain the activities of the Supreme Council. Today, the situation is that we started a session without a decision. And there were warnings about how we work today. The head of the Supreme Council sent a letter to the head of the National Radio Company and the National Radio Company is currently broadcasting the session, but, of course, in order to have a deal for the entire session, we need to vote on the ruling. We've got, hopefully, a technical non-political problem that we're talking about here, with a broadcast on Radio Rocks, which we've traditionally done in the range of 103.6 FM. The radio company's manager is saying that the Arsenal company, where the transmitter and the antenna are located, has been shut down. They went to the government, and I'm asking the Prime Minister and the government accordingly to deal with this situation, because economically there is no reason for Radio Rocks not to be on the air, and our radio audiences, who use the FM area, in particular, and in cars, listen to the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking protocolly that the government responds, and we have had the opportunity since tomorrow to listen after the vote or the FM radios. What innovations are in the resolve? So it's us. You know our discussion with the National Television Company, we've taken down all the standards that apply to specific times. There have been claims that we demand that we broadcast the broadcasts at a specific time. We got it. The committee left four live programs during our meeting and one summary program a week. Everything else about radio, live air and discussion remains. There are some additions that determine how to place a government order. And now, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, we, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal, are asked to include it in relation to the fact that according to the parliamentary groups and factions "The Voice of Ukraine" publishes the results of the roll-call vote on the principle of important issues if the faction deems it necessary to do so. So there is a proposal for the committee to support this decision, which addresses all the problems of enlightenment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u21	So you could say the second, and the second, and then the second, and then the second, you could say the second, you could say the second, you could say the second, you could
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, there is a decision that is non-conflict or that is in principle undistinguishable, the national deputy of Kasianov Vladimir Grigorovitch. The differences between the committee's ruling and the Kasianov people's deputy is that he's offering to slightly reduce the number of programs broadcast on national television companies, that is, no fundamentals. But the committee believes that Parliament should be more represented on television, especially on the grounds that this year the Supreme Council voted on the National Television budget, which is about three times as high as in the previous year. I mean, I think that the funds are enough to ensure the presence of the Supreme Council in terms of volume, as the committee predicts. Therefore, the proposal is to support the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u23	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, it is vital for us to make decisions now and to make them now and now. If there's no objection, I'll put these draft regulations in order for them to come. The first is the voting project proposed by the committee. And on behalf of the committee, this document was filed by Mikola Tomenko, chairman of the committee, and also by National MP Artemenko. I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft decree number 4535, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order in which the work of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be discussed. Attention, here comes the vote. [[16:27:08]] For 190 Dear colleagues, I want to remind you once again that we need to make a decision. Mikola Tomenko, second to second.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u25	The factions indicate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the position on the committee was as follows. If this decision does not pass, for example, the majority feel that there is no need for so many programs. Parliament, for them to be, we propose to vote on the ruling of the Kasianov People's Deputy. There the number of programs is equal to or equal to or equal to or equal to, but there is a radio presence of Parliament. And then there's two live TV programs and one total. We think it's better than not having a lighting decree at all. So there's an offer, if our decision isn't over, to support the decision of the Kasianov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u27	I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u28	With the addition of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u29	I put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on how to explain the work of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, number 4535-1, by the national deputy of Kasyanov. Please vote. And with the addition of Adam Martinyuk. The fact that the faction insists on publishing the results of voting on the most important issues. [[16:28:41]] For-360 It's been decided. Thank you very much. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property protection is under review. Second reading. The reporter is Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u30	Dear National Deputies! This project was discussed livelyly in the first reading. There were 23 offers. Of these, 10 are from the national deputy Atroshenko and 13 are from Radionov. In addition to one proposal from Atroshenko, all proposals are taken into account. Not included is one proposal by national deputy Atroshenka, the seventh sentence, the fourth page, in which he proposes to extend to the broadcasting organization the right of the subject of copyright while they are legally adjacent to the rights of the subject. All the other amendments are taken into account, and there is a proposal to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u31	Is Atroshenko's national MP insisting on his amendment? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 1296]] This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property protection. Please vote. [[4:30.45.]] For 373 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks is being announced for consideration. [[on the activities of technology parks]] Reporter Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, the first deputy head of the Committee on Education and Science. You don't? He's out somewhere. Mr. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please head of the committee. The proposals here are all taken into account, and the Committee proposes to accept them in the second reading and generally as a law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! Igor Rafailovich literally came out for a few seconds. The Committee on Science and Education has carefully considered the proposals made by the government, the proposals that have come from the national MPs and is proposing to support this bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal has been brought to your attention. If there is no objection, I am voting on the second reading as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Investment and Innovation Activities of Technology Parks for the Activities of Technology Parks, document No. 3609. Please vote. [[16:32:18]] For 288 The law is passed. A draft Law on a Disciplinary Statute for the Customs Service of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Skomarowski. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, 122 amendments have been made to the bill, most of them included. The committee has considered them carefully and therefore proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u35	Dear colleagues who have warnings against the committee's proposal. Boris Bespali. One minute early to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u36	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first I wanted to do it under the previous law. Now you have said very well in the congregations today that the Rules will be fulfilled from now on. I just want to make your point that the table was given out today at 16 p.m. and it's now being considered. Thus the Rules were grossly violated. Now, about this, I have a 24th amendment on page 5. In this case, we have no objection. This proposal of mine was, well, it's not very technical. I mean, it says, "keep the state secret." I think we have this notion in law: "a secret protected by law." And I think it would be logical to use here the term that he's bound to keep the state secret, the confidential information, and "another secret protected by law." So it's a standard term and it's all-encompassing. And I don't understand why the committee rejected it. I propose to complete everything and protect the entire "secret protected by law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, how is the committee's position: does the committee support it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u38	I think we can support, yeah, the 24th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u39	That's how we vote her, right? Then I'll put it to the vote and ask for your support. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 24 people's deputies of Bespalogo. The committee supports it. I'd like to support you, too. Please vote. [[16:34:54]] For-153 There was no support for the offer. Who else among the national deputies insists on their amendments? You don't? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft law on the Customs Statute of the Ukrainian Customs Service, document number 3379. Please vote. [[16:35:34]] For 176 The law is rejected. Is there no other offer? The law is rejected. What? Please make a proposal to the committee. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen, here comes the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I believe that on the first reading this law was passed and can be sent back to read again, otherwise important law, which is provided for by the Customs Statute, and we will simply reject it. I don't think that's appropriate. Another second reading, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u41	But the point is. Stanislaw Ivanovich. Please, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. If all the amendments are taken into account, there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u42	Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party, head of the Committee. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have to say that we have a group of people in the Supreme Council who don't want order in the customs service, generally in the customs business. This is one of the manifestations. I think that since this law is laid down in the Customs Code, we would have had the opportunity and we would have to send it back for a second reading. And then take another look. I don't think there would be a violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the committee to re-read. No objections? I am voting for the second reading of the draft law on the disciplinary statute of the Ukrainian Customs Service. [[Registration number 3379]] Please vote. [[16:37:21]] For 275 Decision taken. The draft law on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010 is being announced for consideration. [[It's true, we're already in 2004.]] Dear colleagues, from the committee, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee, the head of the committee and its own committee, have been asked to postpone the consideration of the bill. Is there no objection? Is there a need to vote? We're just gonna move it, right? Thank you. A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Family Code. Second reading. Registration number 2420. Weakly Sergey Ivanovich, please. Legal Policy Committee, who will report? Mikola Anitchuk, please. Roman Zvaric. Please proceed with the procedure while Anitchuk is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you not to be distracted. I'm just asking a question from the procedure. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am raising questions from the procedure. I'd like you to explain to me what we're doing right now. Tuesday, not Thursday. I remember that in our previous session, we decided to make changes to the Rules for one session. This is a different session. So I'd like you to refer to a specific normative act that gives us the right to do what we're doing right now. Because I remind you that article 19 of the second Constitution of Ukraine allows the Supreme Council of Ukraine to act exclusively in order, within and in a manner prescribed by the laws of Ukraine. So please explain what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a decision because we were unable to move on to the normal mode of work when we consider the issue and vote, we have made a gradual change to the Rules, and we have decided on Tuesday that we are considering draft laws and making decisions on them. We didn't take the session, we took it all the time. On Wednesday, we decided that Wednesday we would consider and ratify agreements signed by either the President or the government. In this way, we gradually try to get back to the normal routine of our work. So everything here is in accordance with our internal order. They're going to pick up the document. They're going to introduce you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You know that from January 1st of this year, the new Family Codex has been in operation, as has the new Civil Code. And it is natural that we, as legislators, have to make changes to a number of Ukrainian legislative acts related to the implementation of the Family Code. You have a comparative table. It shows that virtually all the comments and suggestions made by the people's deputies to this bill are taken into account, which gives us reason to vote in favour of this law in the second reading and in general. This is the position of the Committee of Legal Policy, which asks for support in voting under this law. It is essentially a legal and technological act that conforms to the laws of Ukraine in relation to the adoption of the Family Code. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think if there's no objection, we could put this law to a second-reading and general vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, no objection? No one insists on their amendments? May I have your attention, please? Since the amendments take all the principles into account, it is the committee’s proposal to accept this project in the second reading and in general as a law. So I am voting on the second reading of draft Law 2420 amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Family Code. Please vote. [[16:42:53]] For 310 The law is passed. A draft law on the placement of certain population areas in the Volin and Plains regions into the area of guaranteed free evictions is under consideration. The reporter is National Deputy Abdullin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u48	Honorary colleagues, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Placing of Certain Populations in Volinsk and Ravensk Areas to the Zone of Guaranteeed Voluntary Resettlement prepared by the Committee, passed a committee, supported. That's in two words to understand -- we're moving some of the population points from the second zone to the third zone, because today's opportunities to guarantee people relocation, we don't have to look into the truth in the eyes, and when we're in the second zone, these settlements can't get the money for the capital building, or the drugs, or anything. People are practically in a zone that needs to be relocated, and not a penny of money to solve socio-economic problems. That's why it's a coercive measure. We have found practically all the questions on the committee, and we ask that we support this decision. This will give us an opportunity to put money into these areas, into these populated areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u49	Yes, Sergey Shevchuk of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u50	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Your Honor, I have a question. It's probably the first piece of legislation, when we're like this, you know, we're changing the pollution zone to our own judgment, from the guaranteed zone to the third zone, assuming that the environmental situation in those areas is going to improve immediately. Please tell me, this question was to be considered, was it to be considered for a long time, or did the government fulfill its obligations to the population living in these settlements in part of the payout, the payment of health benefits, the payment of other benefits that the victims need? Whether the government has completed a complex of construction work, agrotechnics before telling these people that the good people have brought you grief, but we are forced to move your population to a category of fewer victims by fully fulfilling our obligations. I have such information that all of this has not been done, and now we are simply making a formal act unknown for what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Well, it's more of a question to the government than to me, but I'd like to tell you that for the first time in 2003, we put in the debt return budget for Chernobyl and the budget was 100 percent. This year we have a full payment of all the debts we have. And in this Law that we accept today, we predict that humans will not, their benefits will not be changed. I'm going to read to you right now, two more years, they're going to be getting benefits as representatives of the second zone. But if we leave people in the second zone today, let's see that these are tens of thousands of apartments, rooms, houses, where are we going to take them today to give people? And we can't capitalize on the law of capital repairs there, we can't invest any money. So it's a necessary measure, but we've considered virtually all the possibilities for it to benefit these people today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues. And please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Let's do some repairs. It's not a discussion, it's a second reading. Please, it's Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u53	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Our Ukraine, Lvivščina, Yavorowski and Jovkovsky. Dear reporter, so two more years these people will still be getting the benefits that we adopted in the early 1990s in the Chernobyl laws. So I'm asking you, what's the point of now adopting this law when people two years and the government two more years are going to pay for all these benefits? So maybe, let's just say the simplest thing right now is that there was no Chernobyl disaster at all -- and the "beautiful Marquis" can rest?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u54	Let's be, if we say this question today, it's really the second reading. But let's look at it this way: we've accepted zones, these zones have been accepted in Soviet times, and we've solved this issue at the level of the Soviet Union. Let's understand that we don't have the opportunity today, let's read the law, let's look at it: we don't have the possibilities today. And we can't even repair schools -- that's my district, most of these population sites are my district. I want to tell you that I can't kick a penny out of it because it's legally impossible to build an FAP, a school, or any children's facility. This is an opportunity to address the problem today. If we don't move it, let's keep throwing money without solving the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, the bill of draft Law No. 3081 "On the Placing of Certain Populations in Volinsky and Ravensk Areas to the Zone of Guaranteed Voluntary Displacement." Please vote. [[16:49:29]] For 251 The law is passed. A draft law amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations on Conditions of Competition is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government by Anatoly Volodymyrovich Orzhachowski. Please. I'm sorry, what? Excuse me, Carmazin, for a reason. I didn't see it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. If 15 minutes, you can't see it, then. All right. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to reflect on what you've just voted for in Project 3081, which is now reported by Deputy Abdullin. I want you to remember part 3 of article 22 of the Constitution, and when new laws are passed or changes are made to existing laws, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. We are even more offended today -- true, it will be from January 1st -- of the offended people who live in Volinsk, Ravensk region. We simply deprive them of even the hope of a better life. Well, consider, please, whether it is worth doing. And in view of what you voted on, if you don't vote on it, then I'm addressing the President of Ukraine. You violate article 22 of the Constitution. Hence, this law does not have the right to life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u57	Anatoly Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers of 2 April 2003 amending part 2 of article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations provides for the exclusion from the powers of the heads of local public administrations of the right to accept the nominations of the heads of higher education institutions, vocational and technical schools under the terms of the competition. [[Number 3321]] Support by the Supreme Council for the proposed changes should lead to compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations with Ukrainian education laws. After considering the bill in the first reading by the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, the committee notes that no significant changes and additions to the legislative initiative have been made. Accordingly, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule of Law proposes to adopt a second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law of the 3321 Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations on second reading posts and generally as a law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u60	Please be supportive. [[16:53:17]] For 333 Head. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state property is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of public property was adopted by the Supreme Council on first reading on 5 June 2003. Two amendments were made in preparation for the second reading. They're fully accounted for. As the content of the bill under consideration is intended to protect the existing civil defence defence facility, the Committee has agreed to the relevant amendments to the bill and proposes that Ukraine's Act to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the maintenance of Ukrainian civil defence protection facilities should be adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u62	I'm voting on the committee's proposal. On adoption in second reading as a whole as a law. Excuse me, Budagyan. What's your correction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u63	110 County. When we first wanted to see the law, there was an annex. Is it or is it not, that the Plutuginian Volkovy combine has been left on the list of non-privatizations? Is that what's left or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u64	Look, please, a bill is left or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u65	I don't have that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u66	What question are you asking?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u67	May I have your attention, distinguished national MPs, please calm down. Give me the bill. Where was our colleague's bill, please? Vladimir Josephovich, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u68	We are considering Bill 2355, amending some of the laws relating to the privatization of State property, which was adopted on first reading on 5 June 2003 concerning civil defence facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u69	But that's not the law you're thinking of. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee, as a whole, to draft a bill under number 2355 amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the privatization of state property. Please vote. [[16:56:38]] For 235 The law is passed. A draft law to amend certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration with a view to stimulating consular activity. Second reading. Registration number 2277, reporter - Vladimir Josephovich Matthew Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u70	Respected colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property, Investments represent a second reading draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws in order to stimulate constitutional activities. During the preparation of the second reading bill, the Committee received and included in the comparative table 5 comments from the people's deputies, three of which were rejected. This is amendment number two, because the determination of the specific duration of the concessionaire's entitlement to the object of the concession relates to privatization legislation. In addition, the concessionaire shall be entitled to the purchase of such property only after the end of the term of the Constitutional Treaty and after the decision of the relevant authorities to privatize the facility, unless otherwise provided, the contract. Amendment number three, including the Sharov MP, is actually taken into account, as the proposed rule in the draft is included in a number of other texts. And Amendment No. 4 is rejected because the word “providing land and work to be carried out by concessionaires” must be specified in specific contracts between the concessionaire and the granting authority, as well as other conditions under article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on concessions. Information on the announcement of a concession contest shall indicate the working body with which any additional information can be obtained. With regard to the comments of the General Legal Office, part of the comments of our lawyers are in line with Amendment 4, which we have rejected. The observation that the adoption of this law could have an impact on the 2004 budget would no longer have an impact. The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment therefore requests that the proposed draft law be voted on as a law in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u71	Roman Zvaric, please. By the way, let's go. And then Pinzenik, what a fix. Either by procedure or by motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter, respected colleagues. I would like to draw your attention to what the reporter has said about the fact that this bill, adopted in the first reading, has undergone significant changes, since the committee has taken into account the amendment that provides for the possibility of redemption by a business subject who is entitled to use this object under the conditions of religion. I think there's a major change in the project that was adopted in the first reading. And so I urge you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put this amendment, which is considered by the committee, to a separate vote. If it's not supported by a session hall, then we go back to the original formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u73	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u74	We believe that the right to purchase the object of the concession is provided for by the Act on concessions. And nothing changes here. Let's just say the very idea of the concession law doesn't change at all. We have therefore taken note of this amendment, and we do not consider it necessary to vote in the Chamber. It was introduced and taken into account by the Committee. And when we vote the law as a whole on second reading, we will give our opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u75	Is this the first amendment? Please, Victor Pinzenik. I beg of you, Your Honor, the author of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that the introduction of an amendment on the right to ransom an object of concession in the event of an improvement in property makes this law conceptually different. In fact, the law is now trying to introduce uncompetitive privatization, privatization outside the rules, privatization, which will be followed by the most attractive objects in Ukraine. Therefore, this right cannot be voted on by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u77	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u78	Neither Zvarić nor Pinzenik are the authors of these amendments. And we can, in principle, take them into account when we voted in the first reading. After that, we can vote when we vote, take their opinion into account when we vote in favour of the law as a whole. But once again, these amendments do not change the concept of the concession law. They do not remove or create a non-competitive environment in the event of privatization of the facilities in the concession. Privatization of facilities in concessions is subject to privatization laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u79	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u80	Dear reporter, distinguished national MPs! I'm talking to the majority, and I want to make a note of it. We recently made an appropriate decision about our position with Tuzla. And I'm telling you, today the adoption of this law is no less a matter of principle. If you vote in favour of the concession law today, know that before the presidential election, Ukraine's gas transport network will be under the control of the Russian gas transport company. And this adoption of this law, I think, is a crime for the economy of the state and for the sovereignty of Ukraine. A separate law should be passed. If you have to do it under Odessa Ships, then you have to state in this concession agreement that the movement of oil from Odessa to the Brodys on a particular object. And you can't take everything in general. This law, which is now reported, should be called not a concession, but a lease.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Yes, please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u82	This draft law, which adds to the concession law, has no relation to a particular object, including the gas pipeline or the Odessa-Boda pipeline, has absolutely no connection. And it cannot do any harm to Ukraine's economy, except for the only one -- it clarifies certain conditions for concessions and the privatization of concession facilities after the end of the concession, we will say so after the end of the concession period.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? In view of the denial of the two national deputies, I am forced to put to the vote the amendment number five of Vasjunika’s national deputy, who is considered by the committee, for your consideration. I'm betting on the vote on amendment number five. Please vote. Who's in charge of supporting this amendment? Please vote. [[17:04:32]] For-45 So in negative 45, no correction. So I'm putting the committee to a vote now. To adopt a draft law in second reading and as a whole as a law, this is the registration number of the 2277 draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine with the aim of stimulating concessional activity. Please vote. Yes, the amendment has been removed. Please vote. [[17:05:11]] For 243 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property is being announced for consideration. [[on the allocation of expenditure between the State and the local budget]] Vladimir Josephovich Matthew's reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u84	Respected colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment are submitting for second reading a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Communal Property. The only significant amendment to this bill is that of the People's MEP Shepetin, who proposes a new version of article 4.2: “Financing the costs of the transfer of social infrastructure facilities”. At the same time, the MP proposes to distribute, or distribute, financing for the major repair of social infrastructure facilities transferred to municipal property among the enterprises themselves that transfer such facilities, the Crimea budgets, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol and local budgets, the budgets of villages, towns, cities and areas in cities in the event of the transfer of social information facilities to their property, to the property of their territorial communities in proportion: 10, 45 and 45. That is, 10 are those who pass; 45 are those who receive; and 45 are those in the State budget. Our Committee considered it possible to reject this amendment, given that there was no funds for such facilities for the enterprises that transferred these sites. If such funds were available, businesses would simply not contain them. Part two of the Shepetin colleague's proposal was unrealistic, as the current Budget Code did not provide for such transfers. For similar reasons, it is proposed to reject the comments of the General Legal Administration. The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment requests that the proposed bill be voted on in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u85	Is Shepetin the National MP insisting on his amendment? No, he's taking off his amendment. Don't insist, I'm sorry. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law, registration number 2529, on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[on the allocation of expenditure between the State and local budgets]] Please vote. [[17:08:14]] For 289 The law is passed. A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on government regulation of circulation is being announced for consideration. precious metals and precious stones. Second reading. Budzigan Philip Philipovich, a member of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u86	Honourable National Deputies, a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones prepared by the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment for second reading. [[No. 3508]] In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Decision No. 1329-4 of 25.11.03]] All who wanted to do so had time to comment. There were three proposals for the project. First. In response to the Ministry of Finance's request, I have been asked to complete another 900 "platinum" position, since products with such platinum content are coming, and the existing legislation provides for only 950 tests. The committee supported the proposal. There are two proposals from the National Bank as the subject of the legislative initiative. Terminological. The word "together" is replaced by "consent." The government does not object. and the word "." replace "gold". The committee's offering to take them into account. So all the amendments that are given are included. The main legal administration has no comments, and the committee is legally proposing to adopt the project 3,508 as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u87	I am voting for a second reading committee proposal and, as a whole, a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on government regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones. [[Registration number 3508]] Please vote. [[17:10:31]] For 292 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Commodity Exchange has been announced for consideration. Registration number 2582. Second reading. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, reporter, please as deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment prepared a draft Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange for second reading. [[Registration number 2582]] 134 proposals and comments were received from the Ukrainian people's deputies in the drafting of the bill. 100 proposals taken into account, 34 rejected. The Chief Legal Office has no comments on the proposed bill. The Committee, at its meeting on 25 November last year, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Law on the Commodity Exchange, with proposals taken into account on second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u89	Let's do some repairs. Amendment number four. Boris Bespallian, do you insist? Boris Yakovich? No, it's not. Who, then, insists on their amendments, respected colleagues, those who are unaccounted for? Gorbachev, please. Excuse me, excuse me. Give me a hint, please. Sith, I'm sorry, Sietch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You write letters, you don't know. Seventy-four, Carpathian, agrarian faction. I insist on a vote of 43rd and 26th, which was not counted, although the committee was accepted in the first reading and not rejected. I insist on voting on these articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u91	The 26th amendment on page seven. I'm putting her to a vote, 26th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u92	Rejection, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u93	The committee didn't support her. I'll put it to a vote, vote 26th amendment. [[17:12:56]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Correction, what's next? 46th?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u94	43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u95	And 43 of them are the people's deputies of Matthew's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u96	What's next? This is order number 43, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u97	This is Amendment 26, and we voted it out, and it's not supported. We voted, it's not supported. This is Amendment 26, page 7. That's right, 43, that's 26 revisions. Sitini's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u98	Yes, 43 and 26, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u99	So you're wrongly called, this is order number 26. There's no amendment, there's Boris Bespalogo, there's no such amendment. Correction, this is the second column, and that's where the amendment numbers go. Seven mikes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u100	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, order number 257 rejected, 136 amendment. 257 order number and 136 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u101	On page 32, 136 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u102	Ending Position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u103	136 revisions. I'm putting her to the vote. Dear colleagues, please see page 32, 136 of the amendment of the national deputy to Sithini. [[17:15:23]] For-84 Not accepted. No more warnings, no more insistence? I'm voting on the committee's second reading proposal, as a whole, as a bill, draft law, registration number 2582 "The Commodity Exchange." Please vote. [[17:15:56]] For 175 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal. Dear colleagues, pay attention, gather around. What's the committee's offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u104	Under the regulations of work, a bill that is not generally adopted is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u105	The bill that was passed by the government was withdrawn. All right, so this is a draft Law on Commodity Exchange. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 2418. Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich, please be invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You are aware of the law on the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, registration number 2418. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has received 12 proposals. These proposals were considered in Minpalevenergo and in the State Regulation of Ukraine, where the relevant expert conclusions were drawn. In the comparative table, the committee proposes to take into account three suggestions: two proposals by the national deputy Sabashuk, one proposal by the national deputy Carmazin and three proposals by the national deputy Solomon to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on your amendment? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, when this bill was being discussed, the question was that nuclear materials, they have a very serious and significant impact on the state of environmental protection and in general what's going on in Ukraine, we see it in Chernobyl. So it was suggested here where we write the words. is written today in the draft law "one year to keep documentation" to replace the words "five years." That would be perfectly understandable. Then it would not be possible to lose the ends in the water, as is the case today, for some of the documentation that has been sought, including the investigation authorities, after the purchase of such nuclear materials. And the point is that a supplier who performs mediation functions participates in any contract, saves these documents for five years, not as it says "one year." I'd like you to support me. This does not depend on political preferences to prevent the new Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u109	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment number two of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. [[17:19:13]] For-54 It's not working. The third amendment by Yuri Solomatin Are you insisting on her? Solomon's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u110	I insist on correction. Please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u111	I'm betting on the vote for amendment number three, Yuri Solomatin. [[17:19:53]] For-72 Correction not accepted. Amendment number four. Yuri Anatolyevich insists on Karmazin? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the nature of the amendment is very simple. It's about adding the word "decision" before the words "Office of the Ministers of Ukraine." This means guaranteeing that when nuclear materials are transported, received or transmitted only on the basis of documents drawn up in accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adding the words "unless otherwise established by the laws of Ukraine". So it can be written or it can be written by the Cabinet, then it's a simplified order. But that needs to be determined. If we do not determine in the law, then, as the Cabinet of Ministers, he only accepts either a decree or an order. I think it's a legal indiscretion, and I think it needs to be written down, and I'm wondering why it's not written down, because it's perfectly consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. Please support and I wonder why the committee didn't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u113	Yes, Amendment No. 4 refers to the vote of Yuri Carmazin. [[17:21:20]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The amendment of five Yuri Solomatin Please, it's Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u114	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear colleagues, we are in a very strange situation: we are chosen to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by no means a professional sign. And often, it seems a lot like they're taking suggestions and they're taking them out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they're offering them to people who can't even distinguish neutron from proton. I don't mean to offend anyone, but I would like to suggest that if the only MP who can understand this situation normally, and this is the Bronnikov MP, can answer something about this, then I'll agree. If he's gone, and he can't tell me anything about this, I insist on voting for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u115	I'm voting for amendment number five, Yuri Solomatin. On the committee, you can understand. [[17:22:37]] For-59 Correction not supported. Amendment number six of Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, the microphone. And now, let's just get amendment number seven on the ground, and we'll put them to the vote in turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u116	Okay, thank you, Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Amendment six raises the question of how to allow the transport of ionizing sources of nuclear material and radioactive waste, including the harmonization of relevant documents for the issue of obtaining a permit. The granting of permission, the confirmation of obtaining such permission, was established by a normative act called the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I don't understand why the committee didn't take that into account. With regard to another amendment, No7, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, it refers to the fact that the authority of state regulation of nuclear and radiation security cannot refuse to grant permission to transport radioactive wastes from the processing of spent nuclear fuel returned to Ukraine for storage or storage, even if such a permit was granted for the initial transport of raw material and to add the words: "and transport is carried out in accordance with legislation", to replace by the words "implemented by a violation of the requirements of the laws". It's about how we would have sent all the fuel we sent back to where it was supposed to go, because we couldn't keep it in us, that is, the logic here is very simple. I now have logic here to protect Ukraine as a state. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u117	I'm betting on the vote in turn, first Amendment No.6, Yuri Carmazin. [[17:24:45.]] For-55 The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote now the number seven of Yuri Carmazin. [[17:25:06]] For-82 Correction not accepted. Amendment number eight of Yuri Solomatin. Are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Amendment number nine, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u118	The point is that imports into Ukraine of sources of ionizing radiation and their export to other countries are allowed on condition that the trucker does not simply have a license to use such sources, but a license issued in accordance with the requirements of Ukrainian laws. Because you know that a license may or may not be issued. A license issued -- it's challenged by someone, and then it's impossible. So I'm going to complete and say, at the end of the paragraph, let's add the words, "issued in accordance with the laws of Ukraine." This corresponds fully to the legal technique that has been applied to the writing of all legislation in Ukraine since its creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u119	I put to the vote amendment number nine Yuri Karmazin. [[17:26:25]] For-76 Correction not accepted. Amendment number 11 Yuri Karmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u120	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that the issue of international transport, which is now mentioned in the footnote, is: "Under international transport of sources of ionizing radiation, nuclear materials and jet waste, we need to understand the transport of which the host entity registered in Ukraine is their sender or final recipient. The words "he's a sender or a final recipient" in the phrase "he's just a sender or a final recipient," so we change the accents and then we say, we specify what international transport is. I'd like to support them. I think it's clear that she had to be supported. And thank you for not having to vote for the next amendment, it's included in the Final Positions. [[This is 12-a.]] For 11th, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u121	I'm voting for Amendment 11 of Yuri Carmazin. [[17:28:07]] For-83 Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to accept the project in second reading and generally as a law. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. Registration number 2418. Please vote. [[17:28:42]] For 339 The law is passed. A draft law on approval is being announced for consideration. And, dear fellows, we were about to consider a draft law approving a statewide animal selection programme for the period up to 2010. [[Registration number 3447]] The committee requests that this issue be postponed in view of the fact that the reporter is absent for important reasons. No objections? None. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on responsibility for breaches of administrative supervision and second reading is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3002]] Reporter to the Committee on Legal Protection Sergey Anatoliyovich Ivanovov. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has carefully considered all the suggestions that have come from the deputies. They're all accounted for. So I suggest you adopt this law in second reading and in general. No objections came from anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u123	The third amendment of the People’s Deputy, Carmazin, was rejected. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I propose article 395 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to put it in such an editorial form, and I stress to you that these are very serious things, these are amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Infringement of administrative oversight rights. "Not arriving without good reason in a defined labour institution term to a chosen residence, not registering in internal affairs bodies of the person for whom administrative supervision is established in the event of dismissal from the places of deprivation of liberty, leaving the person without permission of the police to another locality outside the area, the city, including for the purpose of evading administrative supervision, shall be punished by arrest for up to six months." Such a proposal would make it more clear that an administrative supervisor would be obliged and would be in line with the conclusions of the first-reading expert bodies. And I don't understand why, let's say, the next amendment to the fourth is counted, and this third is not counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u125	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u126	Yuri Anatolyevich, we have studied this carefully, and the committee has voted no. I can't add anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u127	I'm voting on amendment number three of National Deputy Carmazin. [[17:31:45]] Z-62 Correction not accepted. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on responsibility for violating administrative oversight rules. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u128	I remind you that there are no objections. [[17:32:19.]] For 298
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u129	The law is passed. A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on dangerous measures in the presence of the population is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Registration number 3517. Reporter to the head of the subcommittee, the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Ivanovich Domanski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u130	Dear comrades, we are all reminded of the fact that not only Ukraine has lifted up, but the whole world, when a plane of war occurred in Sknilov, has lost dozens of innocent people. As a result, it was necessary to amend a number of laws that would ensure the safety of people when manoeuvres, exercises and showcases were taking place. These are four laws: civil defence, security of the population, self-government and administration. We have adopted these amendments in the first reading, all the amendments made in the second reading being taken into account. The Committee has considered them and requests you to adopt the bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, since all the amendments are taken into account, there is a committee’s decision. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a bill, draft law, registration number 3517 on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning dangerous measures in the presence of the population. Please vote. [[17:34:09]] For 345. The law is passed. A draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of Ukraine’s law on military law enforcement in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3642, second reading, Anatoly Ivanovich Domansky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u132	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, at the beginning of last year we passed a law on military law enforcement in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And before that, laws had been passed where the statutes had been passed. And this is the adoption of the Military Orders Act in the Armed Forces requires amendments to the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. We have considered these changes, adopted them on first reading. In the second reading, 57 amendments were made by the deputies. They're all 57 accounted for. Therefore, in order for this service to be fully operational, in accordance with the statutes, I request the Committee to consider and request these amendments to be adopted, this law shall be adopted on second reading and in general in order to fully consolidate and enable troops and personnel to act in full from their laws. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account. Therefore, I am voting on the decision of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, the bill of draft law, registration number 3642, to amend certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Military Service and Order Act in the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u134	Comrades, I'd like to support you. Well, please, everyone. Even Manchulenko supports George. [[17:36:00]] For 302 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us now consider making decisions on the issues under discussion. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Higher Education for Personnel Training is being announced for consideration. Reporter Nikolaynko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Education and Science. Please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The committee has received a number of bills relating to amendments to the Higher Education Act, including bills from the government and from virtually eight Ukrainian national deputies. We recognize that during the Higher Education Act, there have been changes, and so we propose some bills to be taken into account, put them into one agreed table, and some bills to be removed. In short, within 30 seconds the substance of all the bills is reduced to a few of the sharpest. Some suggest lifting restrictions on the State’s admission to higher educational institutions. Today the norm is in place, it's really delayed for two years, that there should be at least one student in every state school at the expense of keeping a reservation than at the expense of money. Otherwise it cannot be, for the Constitution of Ukraine guarantees every man. Others suggest that age be limited. Indeed, the law, the legislator, said that the statutory age of the Rector’s position was 65 years plus five to 70, for the national 65 plus seven to 72. In view of all the circumstances and physiology and international norms, and we've all seen that this law in this case and this rule is working effectively. So our committee is proposing four bills for adoption as a basis. [[3323, 3401, 3578 and 2599]] I have not yet stated the law of Kirilenko Viacheslav, who proposes to give more authority to the student self - government so that students do not feel left out in the village. That's why we're proposing these four bills as a basis. But so that the national deputies, whom we did not take into account, did not think that we would not work on them. We're all bills, all their amendments, in the second paragraph we've foreseen it, we've put it in one table, and we invite all the Ukrainian national deputies, regardless of today's vote for the detailed work, so that they can protect the committee and re-check all their positions on the second reading. And 3578-1 is also proposed. He's got a decision to make. That's the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to your acquaintance has been proved. But I'm going to put in order for these bills to come in, register and review. Please, dear fellows. I'm voting on the first document under number 3323. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Please vote. Governmental.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u137	The committee's offering to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u138	Please vote. [[17:39:54]] For the 250. Decision taken. I'm voting on the next bill under number 2599. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u140	This is a project of the People's Deputy of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u141	It's about self-government. The committee's offering to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u142	On the amendment of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on student self-government]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u143	We offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u144	Please vote, please vote. [[17:40:32]] For-179
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u145	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing those MPs today who have not voted. Dear colleagues, you don't understand the essence of the project. It's about students participating in scientific councils, in Rector's elections, so they can influence the distribution of social goods. It's a perfectly normal law. Why don't we vote for it? Why don't we vote for him?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u146	Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, what's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u147	I propose a vote. [[Not everyone understands.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u148	I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 2599. [[on student self-government]] You just listened to the flaming call. Please vote. [[17:41:27]] For 245 Decision taken. I'm voting on a bill amending article eight of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. This is a document number 3397, author of the National Deputy of Ukraine Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, head of the Committee for Admission. [[17:41:58]] For-94 Yes, the committee suggests that we continue to vote. I'm voting on draft Law number 3401 of the National MP Artemenko "On Amendments to the Higher Education Act" to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u149	I'm asking you, this is the order of the Rector's appointment. Today, when the rector is released by age, he may be six to seven months, a year away. Artemenko suggests that this be normalized over a period of time. The committee's offering to support it, it's a completely neutral norm. We have to vote. In two months. For! For! For! [[17:42:51]] For 277
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u150	Decision taken. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, number 3578, to be adopted as a basis. A similar bill by Polishchuk Mikolia Efraemovich, with the previous one, can only be voted on in terms. “For” may be voted. Similarly, he did not bring anything new. [[17:43:18]] For 105 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a vote to be adopted on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 3578-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:43:50]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the maximum age of candidate for head of higher education]] Registration number 3578-2. Your Honors would like to decide by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u151	We can't vote for that. It's a committee against it. [[17:44:22]] For-13.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u152	The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the 2650-1 bill: the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. The author is the national deputy, Eden." Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the committee is asking you not to vote, since this is about restrictions on government procurement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u154	There's a vote coming, there's a vote. [[5:44:52]] For-127 The vote on these bills has been completed. For - 127, no decision taken. A draft Act on Change is being announced for consideration. The 3633 committee's asking for a transfer, isn't it? And the 3686 committee is calling for a postponement. Is there no objection? Should I vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u155	6. We haven't voted yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u156	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u157	3633.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u158	It's not yours. 3633 is a completely different document. It's Swatkova. We all voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u159	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, National Deputy Polishchuk states that because twice there was an incomprehensible stroke between the two, he insists on voting on his 3578 law on where he rules the age of the rectors and, let's say, the question of the appointment of a Rector for a period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u160	I got it. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm now voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Polishchuk and the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u161	The committee supports this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u162	Listen first! For the purpose of voting on this bill, I ask the national MPs to determine. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:46:36]] For 109 I mean, the bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to postpone the consideration of Bills 3633 and 3686. They apply to the agricultural sector. There's no reporter, he's sick. No objections? Let's do it then. Yes, a draft law amending the U.S. Oil and Gas Act on the terms of special permits is under consideration. Mikola Rudzkowski. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, this bill is very technical. Its authors are the national deputies Kljev, Francchuk, Rudenko, Martinenko, Alexandrovska, Rudzkowski. The point is that since 2001 there has been no legal framework in the field of oil and gas production. There is therefore a change in the names of the authorities authorized to control oil and gas production for licensing. It's in the law. Legislation also regulates the procedure for issuing licences and conducting competitions. It is to this day that there is no mention in the law of how competitions should be organized, how they are announced, and so forth. This law makes it possible to bring it into line. Next. This law allows for an increase in the license period for geological oil and gas exploration on a shelf from 5 to 10 years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the committee's consideration, there were no comments on the committee's experts, and we ask, is the committee's proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. It's necessary for work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u164	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, I will first lay the groundwork, and then, if we accept, you will have no objection, then we will continue to consider. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Oil and Gas Act on Special Permits. Document number 2327. Please vote. [[17:49:14]] For 269 The bill was adopted as a basis. There is a proposal for the committee to vote on it as a whole. Please, Karmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed on a schedule. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Yuri, you supported this bill during the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u165	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I have suggestions to make for the second reading. And in view of the fact that this cannot be done now, I ask for the opportunity to make proposals to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u166	Dear National Deputies! Since there is a denial, according to the Rules, the law must be prepared for the second reading. All of it. A draft Law on the characteristics of budget support for energy conservation in budgetary institutions, casinos, utilities is being announced for consideration. Reporter Yuri Orobec.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! This project has found support in our committee and is proposed to vote for it. I'm gonna say it again. It's a law on the specificities of budget support for energy conservation measures in budgetary institutions, casinos, utilities. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u168	Dear National Deputies! The committee's proposal is to accept as a basis by removing from the draft law the position relating to casinos and utilities. In the same cut, I put the vote on the basis of removing the relevant clauses. Just a minute. Change the vote. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u169	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, the idea of the law is certainly very good and interesting, but a question arises reluctantly. The money that we have to take from the budget, which is aimed at paying for electricity, for thermal energy, we have to use for the introduction of new technology and new technology. The CIA will come, take the user who sent this money, so to speak, not by appointment, and then we'll have an effect on that result. The idea is good, but how to get out of it, I honestly don't know how the second reading committee is going to write this idea, and how we're going to get out of this purely legal conflict. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u170	I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft law on the specificities of budget support for energy conservation measures in budgetary institutions, casinos, utilities. Registration number 3769, taking into account the profile committee's proposals, please vote. [[17:52:14]] For 208 The decision is not taken. What is the committee's offer, to reject or how? Let's do it again. That's the way we voted, no casinos. Please turn on the Dashutin microphone, tell me that you are the author of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u171	My proposal, really, let's vote in favour of the committee, exclude the notion of "punished enterprises" and "communal property," the proposal of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I repeat my offer, it obviously didn't make any sense. To take the project as a basis by removing, in accordance with the recommendations of the committee, the law of the position relating to casinos and utilities. I'm betting on the vote on the committee's proposal. Please vote. Change the vote. Please, Stanislav Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u173	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have an offer to correct this law for work on the committee. Well, how could that be? In the title, the very concept of the bill contains fiscal enterprises, casinos, and utilities. Budget enterprises are proposed to remove, businesses to remove, and last to vote. How could that be? This changes the whole concept of the law, these are different sources of funding. On the one hand, these are the sources that make up the enterprise itself, on the other hand, these are the budgetary sources. And there's a lot of confusion. And I fully support the people's deputy Matvienkov. Let's recommend that the committee finalize this bill and then go back to it again. To read again. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear colleagues, I think the law is very important. And we don't have to reject it now, but we have to re-read it. Please support this. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u174	I would like to ask your attention, fellow Members, to vote on the proposal to re-read the draft Law on the characteristics of budget support, implementation of measures, energy conservation in budgetary institutions, casino enterprises, utilities. Registration number 3769. Please vote. Rereading the first reading. [[17:55:04]] For 304 Decision taken. A draft Law on Housing and Municipal and Economic Services is being announced for consideration. National Deputy Crook, deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The Housing and Communal Services Bill was discussed in our Hall on 12 December and was proposed to be adopted on first reading. Our dedicated Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications also supports this proposal. The main positions of the bill are those complaints and the constant complaints of our citizens on public services, which are reflected in this law. Most importantly, responsibility for the provision of poor quality services is reflected. The Committee therefore requests that it be supported, as a basis for first reading. The conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Division is available, and it is also proposed to be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u176	I'm voting on adoption as the basis of the draft Housing and Economic Services Act. Please vote. [[17:56:30.]] For 241 Decision taken. A draft regulation on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings "On the situation of young people in Ukraine, on the development of a healthy way of life for young Ukrainians is being announced. Status, problems and perspectives." Samuel Catherine Seminovna, head of the committee, reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u178	I'm sorry, Catherine Seed. Please continue your work so that we can also vote on the three decrees and conclude our evening session. Please be supportive. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, late last November, there were parliamentary hearings in the hall about the situation of young people in Ukraine on the theme "forming a healthy way of life for young Ukrainians. Status, problems and perspectives." Of course, out of the thirty presentations announced in this room, almost all the presentations included recommendations on how to solve the problems in the youth environment. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the commission of the parliamentary hearings to take into account their suggestions and comments to the draft hearing recommendations, finalized these recommendations. And today we're going to propose that they be confirmed. They include the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, the State Committee on Family and Youth, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the General Prosecutor’s Office, and local authorities of self - government specific measures to shape the healthy lifestyle of young Ukraine. And, I think you're all familiar, we've prepared the paperwork in advance, and we've handed it out. I would like to vote on the Supreme Council's decision to approve parliamentary hearing recommendations based on the summary of parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, no objection? The recommendations project has been completed. With your permission, I'll put the vote to the vote immediately in general if there's no objection. I would like to vote on the adoption of the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the situation of young people in Ukraine, on the development of a healthy way of life for Ukrainian youth, on the condition, on the problems and on the prospects. Registration number 4565. Please vote. [[17:59:10]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that for 15 minutes we will continue to work, I will specify for the protocol. A draft regulation on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on "Socio-economic problems of HIV-AIDS, drug abuse and alcoholism in Ukraine and how to address them" is being announced for consideration. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u181	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, on December 1st we held parliamentary hearings with you about the socio-economic problem of HIV-AIDS, drug addiction and alcoholism in Ukraine and how to solve them. I'd like to say that you've been given draft rulings for a long time. The committee presented for your consideration a draft recommendation for parliamentary hearings, both in the light of suggestions and comments made directly in the course of the hearings and taking into account a number of written suggestions that came to our address. At the same time, taking into account the fact that a certain period of time has elapsed since the introduction and registration of the project, there has been an objective need for a minor correction of the document. First, in paragraph three of its own draft decision recommending parliamentary hearings, the committee requests that the deadline for carrying out the commission for publishing a collection of hearing materials be changed from February to April 2004. Second, in paragraph one of the eight draft hearing recommendations, page five, concerning the setting of the recommended deadline for the Government to prepare legislative proposals to improve legislation in the field of combating AIDS, drug abuse and alcoholism, we ask that we replace the word "March" with the word "April". Third, paragraph 10. The recommendation of the committee suggests that it be excluded by renumbering the positions and recommendations on page 6 accordingly. This proposal is due to the fact that immediately after the parliamentary hearings, the government reacted fairly quickly to the critical comments made during the hearings: The government standard of basic and complete secondary education, which was approved after hearing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of January 14, 2004, already takes into account the corresponding positions proposed by the committee. That is why this item is proposed to be excluded from the recommendation. In addition, in paragraph 12, page 6, we ask that the word “from 2004” be replaced by the words “in 2004”. Please approve the decree of the Supreme Council as a whole, taking into account the amendments I have made. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments have been proposed constructively. So I think you'll support me to put to the vote for the whole draft decision. You bastards, please. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u183	Dear Mikola Efremovich, you left the rostrum in a hurry, but I have a question for you. In addition to our own expenses, we are known to have been engaged in the fight against AIDS and to be abroad. Several million or twelve million so-called "U.S.".. You know, like the head of the committee and your committee, where these "U.E." Come on, how are they used? Because we know that on this program, we've stopped postponing abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u184	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, I want to say that the parliamentary hearings on December 1st were looking at exactly the socio-economic problems of HIV-AIDS. And what you're talking about has been made clear in later periods, not December 1st, but later. In this regard, some national deputies have commented on the matter. I think the questions of the national deputies will soon be asked and some clarifications will be provided. I just read you a draft of the Supreme Council Order, according to those parliamentary hearings that were held on December 1st. And please support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Socio-economic problems of HIV-AIDS, drug abuse and alcoholism in Ukraine and how to solve them." [[18:04:13]] For 236 I'll take the order. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on State Policy on Returns and Compensation for Losses, Valuable Savings of Citizens: A state of restoration and prospects is being announced for consideration. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I recall. On 8 December, we held a parliamentary hearing with you in this room, which was invited by all associations of fraudulent investors, all interested parties. And a very thorough and good conversation took place. Proposals were made by the people's deputies, which are included in the regulation. The Cabinet of Ministers also responded to the Ministry of Finance. We understand that this recommendation will not solve one of the most painful problems of our State, but it will take a significant step forward to address this problem. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to request that it be adopted as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u187	Yes, dear colleagues, no objection? I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt, as a whole, a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on state policy in the area of return and compensation, loss of citizens' savings, state of restoration and prospects. [[Registration number 4604]] Let's vote for perspective. Please vote. [[18:05:48]] For 319 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft regulation on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the problem of homeless citizens and homeless children and how to overcome them is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Vasil Grigorovich Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, on 22 December last year, we considered this painful issue at parliamentary hearings. For the first time, I must say, in Ukraine, attention has been drawn to the problem of homeless and street children, and very interesting proposals have been made to address these two problems, which are bleeding, let us say, in our State. Interest was expressed by all ministries, agencies involved. They are all made in the recommendation and please support this decision as a basis and adopt it as a whole and recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers, first and foremost, concrete proposals to address these problems in our State. Please vote on the basis and in general for this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u189	Is there no objection? Please, Sergey Doroguntsov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u190	Dear reporter! Such problems usually occur during wars or as a result during a global flood or its consequences, during an epidemic of planetary magnitude or its consequences. Where did the homeless children in the prosperous Ukraine come from with its wealth, its black lands, its people, its intellectual potential, its scientific potential, where did it come from? I know that there are homeless dogs, and why are the children homeless? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u191	Sergey Ivanovich, we discussed this issue at parliamentary hearings, where I can support, not only agree, but also support, this is the third time in our country. This was the first time in civil war, the second time in the Great Homeland and now. This is the result of our work with you in Ukraine, as a result of the systemic, economic, social and political crisis that has resulted in such results. Above all, we have now found certain measures, certain proposals, to begin to address these problems in our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u192	Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a decree, on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the problems of homeless citizens and homeless children and how to overcome them. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-03-m0.u193	Please support the Committee's decision. [[18:08:55]] For 338 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I thank you for our fruitful work together. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we continue to work at 10 o'clock on Wednesday. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions tomorrow at nine o'clock 30 minutes to gather in the Head's office so we can agree on how we will prepare a common political agreement for further concerted action.
