ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:16]] 392 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud. Let's welcome him and wish him well. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are being held at the morning session of the Ukrainian Government. To implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council's decision of 23 September 2004, we will consider the Government's implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's decision of 18 March 2004 on the summation of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2003 and the measures taken by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2004. The government appointed the minister of Ukraine as rapporteur for family, children, and young people. Help materials are given to you. It is suggested that our morning meeting be held in such a manner. To inform the people's deputies from the government, up to 15 minutes. The answers to questions that came to the government from committees, MPs and groups, non-fractional national deputies, are in writing for up to 30 minutes. Answers from members of the government to oral questions from members of the national parliament - within the hour. To discuss a specific topic from the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, give time to 10 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine to 40 minutes. [[three minutes.]] Is there no objection? Then let's move on to. What, what? Dear colleagues, there is an offer to ask oral questions for up to 30 minutes. So let's just say that we're going to get to 30 minutes. If they're still willing, we'll continue. Let's work, dear fellows. How many questions do we have, we'll all get answers. The committee's proposal is 60 minutes. I think that, dear colleagues, the government has nothing to hide, but we work together, so we will answer, the joy of God. Right? Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u2	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to shorten, indeed, the answers to oral questions and to increase the time for the MPs to speak, that if you take 40 minutes, that's, well, 12 deputies - 13 will speak. And there's a lot of footage. I'd like to make an offer to at least 50 minutes to increase the number of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, these proposals have been made by a profile committee, in accordance with the Government Day. If we want to continue the discussion, no one will limit it. We will discuss this vital issue for us. I think the government agrees. She is invited to speak with the Cabinet of Ministers on matters of family, children, and young Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The first law of an independent Ukraine was the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in September 1991, which determines the child’s priority right to rest and leisure, the use of the most perfect health care and treatment and health care. Organized health and recreation of children during the holiday season ensure that their children’s health improves, their vitality is restored, their employment prevents their carelessness, the ability to continue their upbringing, and the development of the child’s creative abilities. Therefore, the issue proposed for consideration at today’s meeting of the Supreme Council is extremely relevant. It should be noted that the constant attention to the problem of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the government and local executives and local self-government has contributed to the provision of health services for more children, their quality, to some extent to the renewal of the network of children's health facilities. In the summer of this year, 2 million people were healed, according to operational data from district administrations. 548 thousand. Children of school age, which is 42.9 percent versus 34 in 2003 and 27 in 2002. Children’s recovery work continues. Thus, in September there were about a hundred health facilities where nearly 20,000 were healed. Children, over 7,000. The children are now in a state of health in children's sanitariums and children's health facilities throughout the year. In total, more than 560 million people were mobilized for the summer health campaign this year. In particular, it is estimated that the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation will be used to provide additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012. Money from the government budget. The work on increasing budgetary allocations was carried out by most local executive authorities and local self - government. If at the beginning of the budget year, only 116 million children were budgeted in local budgets. On October 1st, the amount of money spent on health care is 126 million dollars. In fact, last year it was 88. In addition to local executive authorities and local self - government, 196 million people were involved. Money versus 156 last year. They worked actively to attract non-budgetary funds from the executive powers of Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Luhansk, Zakarpatsk, Mikolai, Kharkiv, Chernigiv, and Kyiv. There has been a significant increase in the volume of budgetary funding previously lagging behind in this area compared with past years such as Lvivska, Chernigivska, Vinnitsk, Zakarpatska. As a result, better indicators for child recovery are: Kharkivska, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovska, Hmelnicka, Vinnicka, Ravenska, Zakarpatska and the city of Kiev -- they have higher averages in Ukraine. The government’s clear tasks in the Government’s Programme of Action on Child Health enabled local executives and local self - government in most regions to provide quality training and a timely start of a health campaign. Yes, as of June 10, 2003, there were 10.3,000 health facilities, as of June 10, 2004, 12,000 facilities, including 70 percent on the health care network. During the summer of this year, there were 19.4,000 children’s health facilities, of which 896 were out-of-town and sanitary facilities, 876 last year, and 17,000 344 preschool camps and labor and rest camps, and 954 vocational camps. The increase in active health facilities was due to the restoration of sanitation and out-of-town facilities in Crimea, Donetsk, Zaporzik, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lugansk, Mikolaiiv and a number of other areas, the organization of health camps for children and the increase in the number of day-care facilities that functioned on the basis of public education schools. The work of central and local executives and local self - government was directed primarily to the preservation of the network of these facilities, to the restoration of the operation of inoperative stationary facilities. To this end, you will admit that last year, an inventory of the entire network was made of a number of facilities that did not work for a long time, established reasons. Local executives have taken steps to bring them into action or, at times, impossible to get them off the grid. The positive is the restoration of 26 out-of-town health care facilities that have not been used for a long time, as well as the opening of a newly built Obeig health facility in Volinsk. In order to preserve the existing network of children's health facilities, the Cabinet of Ministers has adopted this year's "Some Issues of the Activity of Children's Health Institutions", which has made it impossible to re-profil, use not by destination, liquidation of public and municipal health institutions. A draft Ukrainian law has been drafted to amend some Ukrainian legislation on child health care institutions aimed at preserving the profile of child health care facilities in bankruptcy of the owner, such as the law on how to pay the taxpayer's taxes to budgets and public trust funds and the law on the recovery or recognition of the debtor's ability to pay. During this summer, educational institutions were active in organizing the work of the school’s health camps. In addition to the significant increase in the number of such facilities, the quality of health services has improved. During the summer, 420 labor and recreation camps operated. The decline in the number of such facilities compared to the previous year is explained by changes in statistical reporting and in approaches to the recovery of children in these camps. Only those camps that ensured their children’s day - to - day residence were included. The attention of government and local executives and self - government was focused primarily on providing health care for children who need the greatest attention and care from the State. Thus, more than 83 percent of orphans and children deprived of parental care have improved significantly, the number of children with disabilities who are cured is almost 43 percent, 65.2 percent of children from multi-child and low-income families, more than 70 percent of children from law enforcement and military personnel who have died in service. Rather, it was organized to heal the children of such crisis categories in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Volinsky, Dnipropetrovski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsky, Sumskie oblasts, and the city of Sevastopol. Special changes in children’s health facilities have been organized for gifted and talented children. During the 11 health changes this year, the International Children's Centre Artek has healed more than 10,000 children, primarily socially vulnerable categories, and has undergone a number of thematic changes involving talented and gifted children, contest winners, the Ukraine Olympics, the Near Far Beyond. In general, this year in Artec, children from 32 states of the world were able to rest. For the first time in the NDC, Artek held an international festival entitled "Let's Change the World for the Best!"which was attended by children from 21 states of the world under UNESCO patronage. Yesterday, the UNESCO Executive Board supported the country's proposal to recognise the International Children's Centre "Artec" the following year, which will be the 80th anniversary of "Artec" based on the implementation of UNESCO's children's and youth programmes. In all areas of Ukraine, work was done to provide for the recovery and rest of children with remarkable behavior. During the summer, 32,000 children were cured. A positive experience is found in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Herson, Luhansk, Donetsk, Kiev. For the first time in this year, there were specialized health facilities for the rehabilitation of HIV-infected children with parents. A special concern at the beginning of the season was the recovery of children affected by the Chernobyl accident. This category of children was largely healed in sanatoriums and, traditionally, by the beginning of the summer, more than 10 percent of the children in this category had been cured. However, in the current year, the introduction of a centralized tender for travel in accordance with the Ukrainian National Budget Act has led to some problems that have been solved with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. On October 1, this year, nearly 159 thousand children affected by the Chernobyl AES accident were healed, almost as much as they did last year. As a peaceful state, Ukraine has accepted as one of the first to heal children living in conflict zones, referring to children from the Republic of Iraq and children and parents affected by the tragedy in Beslan of the Russian Federation. For the initiative and support of public organizations, more than 240 professional and thematic health changes have been organized primarily for youth, children, women, and various funds. The positive results have been achieved through the joint actions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, almost 70 national deputies have actively collaborated with the ministries to implement the child recovery programme, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central and local executive authorities and the monthly self-government, the Social Insurance Fund for the Temporary Loss of Employment, the Federation of Ukrainian Workers and, as I have already noted, numerous social organizations. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has made a significant contribution to the success of the health campaign. Over 900,000 children of socio-unprotected health categories, of which 850,000 were transported by rail, have been transported to the summer credits on group orders. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has ensured the protection of the rule of law at rest and the rehabilitation of children. Under each child’s health care facility, officers of the criminal police department were established in juvenile affairs. The Ministry of Education and Science and its structural units were sent to health facilities and prepared, of course, 18,000 students of pedagogical and pedagogical institutions. The Ministry of Health, the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the Chernobyl Disaster and their Regional Units have taken steps to ensure that health, fire and consumer rights are respected. The State Committee on Statistics has improved statistical reporting on health issues, Min’s family, children, young people under the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers have coordinated the activities of ministries, departments, local executives, and local self - government in the organization of child recovery. To this end, the interdisciplinary headquarters, which organized operational information and took steps to improve the health of children. It should be noted, however, that during the 2004 health campaign, there were a number of shortcomings. First of all, it's a timeless discovery of children's health facilities. [[67 such stationarys were untimely discovered in the Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lviv and Odessa regions]] In this year, institutions have been reopened in some areas without agreement with the State Epidemiology Service. [[there were 92 cases, this is Ternopil, Odessa, Kharkiv, district]] The Sanitary Epidemiology Service issued 158 warning orders prohibiting the opening of camps, mainly school camps. [[Cherkaske, Lviv, Volinska, Vinnitsk Region]] For violations of sanitary legislation, responsible persons have been fined 28,000 fines, and 1,174 officials have been removed from work, and 18 cases have been referred to the investigating authorities. Workers of the U.S. State standard were tested for food in nearly 700 children’s health care facilities, where a number of violations of food preparation technology, the release of finished products, and their quality were detected. Tests have been carried out on child - care organizations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Zaporzik, Odessa, Volinsk, and in areas where there has been a violation of the legislative requirements for the establishment of child health facilities for the protection of children, the selection and assembly of personnel, the organization of educational work, and so forth. The results of the tests were reviewed at a meeting of the interdisciplinary headquarters on child health and rest, and the operational advice of the local executive authorities was used to remove them immediately. The very flaws in the organization of health care have resulted in three accidents that have led to the death of children in children’s health facilities, in the Hersonian region, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and in the Donetsk region. Overall, the 2004 health campaign was more organized, purpose-oriented, and it revealed a number of unused reserves, both locally and nationally, that will be taken into account when preparing for the 2005 children’s health season. To that end, we will soon ensure that the draft Law on Child Health and Recreation, which will determine the State guarantees for the realization of the child's right to health and rest, is completed, and that a legal network of child-repair facilities and changes in the profile of activities will be established. The State Budget 2005 project provides for increased allocations for maximizing the recovery of school-age children, primarily from socially vulnerable categories of the population. We will continue the work of the central and local executives and local self-government to preserve and develop the network of children's health facilities, we will address the issue of the training of qualified children's health institutions, we will ensure that children's health and recreation in all regions of Ukraine is provided year-round by an increase in the number of active children's health facilities. The Ukrainian government is already starting preparations for the 2005 health season, where our main task is to ensure quality recovery for at least 50 percent of school-age children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report has been completed. Let's get to the questions. Valentina Ivanovna, maybe we can do it this way: half an hour on written questions, and then on our lips, if so. Please write questions in the order of their written questions. And it's written. Members of parliament are asked to sign up for oral questions. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the people's deputies, so that they can see, please give. A total of 26 national deputies were enrolled in questions. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u6	The Ukrainian Company’s deputy faction asks and notes that recently a large proportion of children’s health facilities in Ukraine have not been used for the purpose of strengthening their health profile. Children’s health institutions, which have existed for years under the auspices of the State executive branch, are alienated by commercial structures, and the sale of famous child health camps is spreading. What steps does the government take to preserve the network of children’s health facilities? You know, last year, in order to execute your decision, we did inventory all the child health care facilities of the sanatorium type and the out-of-town facilities. We have the results of an inventory of 1,100. Of these, 446 state utilities, 522 are camps as the property of labour groups. So 14 of us have increased the number of private property camps, and now we have 27 of them. And 15 camps or facilities are the property of other states. There are no 114 camps yet. You know, this year, with cooperation with the local authorities, we managed to get those 114 26 camps into operation, restore them, and build a new one. With a view to maintaining a network of children’s health facilities, the government adopted a decree on March 17, this year, approving the list of 446 children’s health facilities in the community and state estates to which retraining, liquidation or use is prohibited. Regarding changes in ownership forms, the analysis showed that, I told you before, the number of children's health facilities that have become private has doubled. This changed the form of ownership, but the activity did not change. However, as we analyze the situation, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to make changes to legislation and to prohibit children’s health camps when an enterprise is bankrupt or when an enterprise is insolvent. This bill is already being considered on government committees, and we're about to pass it on to the Supreme Council. We'll ask you very much to support it with these 522 camps, which are now owned by the labor groups, so that they don't sell them out. Ukrainian Socialist Party MP: How many former pioneer camps were left? What is their destiny and role in organizing children’s recreation? I already said that by the beginning of 1990, we had more than 900 camps operating in the country. The inventory showed 1,100, and 896 had already worked. Our task is to resume in the coming years the activities of those who are still alive and who are not in the polluted territories. Special Privatization Monitoring Commission: How many child camps have changed the form of ownership? I told you. During the past four years, 14 camps, owned by utilities or government property, have become private but have changed activities. Next question. The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood: What steps have been taken by the government and local executive authorities to maintain a fixed network of state, municipal and community health institutions? I have already said that the government has adopted two decrees: one, according to which it has approved the list of children’s health facilities of municipal and state property. By the way, the government is now preparing changes and additions to this situation because there are a number of camps, mostly communal property that have taken over from enterprises, local authorities, and they want these children's health institutions to be listed as well. And the government has also approved a list of sanatorium and child health facilities, which are also prohibited from re-profiling and eliminating. Next question. Ukrainian Socialist Party MP: How many rural children have been cured? You know what continues to function in the Agro-industry policy system, agrarian politics, as a merger as a "Silg-In-Health". It includes 107 children’s health facilities, and over 70,000 have been cured during the year. Children from rural areas. Children in rural areas were certainly healed in all other camps. But we don't run that kind of statistics, we don't share kids from the city, from the village, from industrial enterprises, where parents work in the country. You know that when the changes were made to the budget, there were additional funds from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy for the recovery of children instead of 2.5 million 4 million, and the budget for the following year provides for 5 million. In order to increase the number of children who are cured by a health - care professional. Next question. Once again, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. How many rest camps were in place — on Dniper, on Right, on the Dniester, on Sula, and so forth. Dear colleagues, I've already said that 896 children's health facilities in the out-of-town or sanatorium have operated this year -- that's 26 more than the previous year, and the vast majority of them are located on various rivers in Ukraine under good natural conditions. What is the cost and relaxation of our glorified mecenities? This year, out of the 565 million dollars that were mobilized for children's summer recovery -- 197 million were the cost of businesses, businesses, and that's more than 40 million compared to the previous year. And I think that among these people who gave money, and among the companies that gave money to raise children, there were both metenaths, and businessmen, and medium and high levels. Committee on Youth Policy and Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism How to monitor the use of budget funds to organize a children’s health campaign in the summer of 2004. The use of funds is controlled by the General Audit Authority. Immediately, starting on September 1st, the Central Audit Authority entered all the district administrations in family and youth affairs, education, Chernobyl administration -- and there is a very scrupulous scrutiny of the use of funds. To date, no gross abuse of child health funds has been detected. Next question is the Committee on Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism. "How will the Cabinet of Ministers address the problems of a well-balanced pricing policy regarding the cost of travel for the recovery and rest of children, including the payment of value added tax, the payment of personal income tax and the payment of land taxes to children's health institutions?".. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the Supreme Council for the changes made to the budget that enabled me to sell and implement travel to children's health institutions without VAT. The same standard is laid down in the 2005 draft budget. Secondly, we haven't had, according to the legislation in force this year, any cases, according to the State Tax Administration, of the collection of taxes from children's health facilities, are meant to pay for land. And the draft budget for 2005 also does not provide for the suspension of an article of the added-cost or land tax bill. Regarding the tax on the income of natural persons, a group of national deputies developed such a bill. We looked at it on the government committee. And we're going to support this bill. Next, a question from the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism. "What is the position of the government in defining the status and organization of the Young Guard Children's Centre in Odessa?".. You know that today the status of this children’s health institution is as follows: it is owned by the National Council of Children’s Organizations of Ukraine. And as much as we don't want to be able to change the owner, we don't have that kind of authority. What did we do this year in response to the questions you asked in the spring? First, we convinced the management of the Youth Guard Children's Center to take part in a tender for children's recovery, they participated, they won a tender. Children of socially vulnerable categories were healed there. First of all, orphans and children from foster homes. For this, they were allocated 1 million 100,000 dollars. Now, another 200,000 dollars are being allocated, and that's where the child's recovery will continue. Thus, such activity resulted in the liquidation of debts, primarily of wages in this institution. Next. If the will of the leadership of the National Council of Children’s Organizations of Ukraine is to be done, the State will take it. Undoubtedly, he will take ownership of this facility and will need to be invested very much and very much in order to reform it. At the very least, we will continue to support this facility. Next. Committee on Social Policy and Labour. "How do the government implement the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on the development and introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill on the recovery and rest of children?".. I would like to inform you, honourable national deputies, that on September 8, this year the government approved the concept of a draft law on the organization of child health and rest. At present, the draft law, according to this concept, has been developed. He was considered in the appropriate ministries, as well as at a large meeting last week. Seminars for directors of children's health facilities. Some changes and additions are made. In the near future, we're working on it, we're transferring it to the Cabinet of Ministers, and in November, in accordance with the program, we're transferring it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next question. Again, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. "Why isn't the government in the second year following the recommendations of the Supreme Council decrees on the establishment of a government order for the recovery of children in categories?" Dear National Deputies! The government is acting in accordance with its 1997 decree, which essentially sets up a government order. Because this regulation defines the categories of benefits. We have the number of children in these categories of benefits, we have the program, the State Health Implementation Program, and the government's regulations and orders to do so to the local authorities, and this allows us to increase the number of children in the categories that are getting better from year to year. Normative acts on this subject will be developed immediately after the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Organizing and Resting Children. Next question to the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. As we know, the U.K. State Budget Act 2004 has suspended the benefits of child-to-child taxing. Then, on June 16, it was restored. That's what's happening. Indeed, the Law on Budgets has suspended this tax benefit on the added cost of travel, and the 1st April government has made appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council. By the way, a group of deputies also presented such a bill. And on June 16, the Supreme Council and the government came together, and an appropriate decision was made. The 2005 draft budget does not limit the operation of this article. Next question to the Social Policy Committee. How was the requirement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Decree on the provision of sanitary, technical, fire-fighting examinations of children's health facilities implemented throughout the year's healing season without paying for these services? I want to tell you that at the beginning of the year, in order to comply with the Supreme Council's decision, the Sanitary Epidemiology Service, the State Fire Department, other government authorities that carry out control functions have adopted regulations that allow children's health care facilities to be given free of charge. Whether the government is planning to solve the problem of child health care and increase wages for health workers at the legislative level. Dear friends, you know that in most of the work of children's health institutions, it's a seasonal job and basically the Ministry of Education and Science prepares for this job and students and educators. The average wage of teachers is certainly different, depending on the form of ownership. The minimum wage is 250 dollars. The draft Ukrainian Law, which we have already developed, envisages the development of a whole range of sub-legal acts, including human resources, training of qualified professionals and improving the conditions of paying teachers and educators who work with children mostly in the summer. What steps are being taken by the government to improve the process of conducting tenders for the purchase of children’s allowances, to ensure their transparency? You know, we have proper legislation, and according to valid legislation, all the central executive authorities that have funds in their budgets, they conduct tenders either on their own, or they pass these functions on to their district offices in accordance with legislation. Regarding the Ministry of Family, Children, and Youth, 1.9 million dollars were played in a centralized tender and won children's health institutions such as "Friendship" and "Salute" in Crimea, such as "The Light" in the Odessa Region and "The Young Guard" and more than 12 million of us were handed over, as were other ministries to district offices, and the tenders were absolutely transparent. And we, together with the audit offices, are checking the use of these funds. The Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood asks the following question. What has been done by the executive authorities to assist children's health institutions in the area of utilities and electricity? Dear colleagues, you know that in accordance with Decree No. 323, since April 1997, local authorities have been able to provide benefits to children’s health care institutions in respect of municipal services, food purchases, local taxes, and congregations. And the government here, based on our legislation, can recommend this to local governments. And we tried to get local authorities to listen to our recommendations. To do this, we did a great deal of individual work with them, starting with individual interviews by deputy heads of the district government, deputy mayors. And this year, the vast majority of local authorities have established such benefits. Not bad, and at the district level it was decided: in Cherniewsky, Chernigovsky, I apologize, in Cherniewsky, in Cherkaske, in Zaporzik, in Ivano-Frankowsky. With the adoption of the Law on the Recreation of Children, local authorities will no longer have to insist, and they will be obliged to enforce the law, and the central executive authorities and the Supreme Council will monitor the enforcement of this law. Next question. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster asks. Doesn't the government consider it appropriate to open rehabilitation facilities in children's health care facilities to provide phased treatment, namely in the "stationary sanatorium" formula for children with the most common child pathology? I want to tell you that, first of all, the government approved the concept of the 2005-2015 concept of sanatorium development, which envisioned the treatment and rehabilitation of children with disabilities and children with chronic diseases in specialised sanatoriums. This is the pattern that national MPs talk about, namely, a sanatorium hospital, where we treat children with tuberculosis and parts of osmotic diseases. In 2004, for early childhood children with thyroid organ damage, the nervous system opened a rehabilitation facility based on Hadjibei's main children's sanatorium. Orlatko's main specialized sanatorium accepts children after surgical treatment of resistance pathologies. And so this is a perfectly right offer, this kind of treatment, recovery, recovery and rest will continue to be realized. Next question to the same committee. Whether a network of children’s endocrine sanatoriums, primarily diabetics, and thyroid diseases is envisaged. Ladies and gentlemen, the network of specialized endocrine sanatoriums operates in the Ukrprofessor system. In recent years a number of rehabilitation wards have been established to treat children with diabetes and thyroid disease. Unfortunately, during Ukraine's years of independence, new sanatoriums have not been built in children's sanatoriums. The Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood asks the following question. How were children with disabilities, children deprived of parental care, orphans, children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and children of dead miners organized? And what measures are being taken by the government to ensure their treatment and recovery in sanitariums throughout the year? I already told you that we have about 84 percent of the children, of all the children of orphans about 84 percent -- almost all the children of school-age orphans were cured this year. We have a comparison with 34 percent of children with disabilities last year, 43 percent of them are cured this year. We have a significant increase in the number of children who are cured from many childhood families -- over 65 percent. The children of the dead miners are 58 percent. These are practically all school - age children. And this also applies to the children of dead soldiers and militiamen. Children named categories were also, of course, cured and treated in health care institutions of the Ministry of Health. With regard to treatment, sanitation throughout the year. 49 children’s health facilities continue to work. You remember that two years ago, we had 17 children’s health facilities that worked year after year, and now we have 49 of these working for the State’s program of curing children. That's not enough. According to the government program, it should have been at least 60. And children's sanatoriums continue to work. The Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism asks how many specialized sanatoriums have been privatized, reclassified over the period 2003-2004? According to the State Department, during the years 2003-2004, none of the 180 sanatorium and child health facilities were reclassified or changed. I've already told you that the government has adopted the concept of the development of the sanatorium for the period 2005-2015, which foresees both conservation and further development of the network of children's sanatoriums and resorts. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster raises questions as to what steps the government has taken to organize a year-long recovery of children and the recovery of children with parents? I've already said that over the last two years, we've had a triple increase in the number of health facilities that work, and now, it's 48, and among them are facilities in the Donetsk region, Kiev, Lugansk, Sumskia. Well, there we have healed almost 60,000 children in these institutions over a year, but of course this is extremely small and this is the task that the government will work on with local authorities and central executive authorities. Next question. Its essence is that, starting in 2005, the executive body will provide for the organization of health care, the purchase of directions to develop them, and the responsibility for the results of the Chernobyl children. It's going to be that central executive body in the position that these powers, or ministries, or the state committee that is now being set up. Next. We ask for information on Government Day to focus on analysis of the effectiveness, disadvantages, and benefits of centralized travel for the recovery of the Chernobyl population. You know, really, article 49 of the 2004 Ukrainian Budget Act provided for the first centralized purchase of travel for the rehabilitation of the Chernobyl population. In addition, you know that the draft budget for the beginning of the year was much less expensive. Lack of experience and much less money led to what we have actually, during this year, healed much more Chernobyl children compared to last year, and then, you know, that this issue has been addressed by the Prime Minister, there have been changes and additions and financials, and about the forms of buying routes to the relevant legislation, and you've supported it, and part of the funds have been transferred and channelled to the region, and this has enabled a significant increase in the involvement of the local children's health care base, and over the summer effectively using both finance and the material and technical base, to come out to this year's indicator. There is a very deep analysis of two forms of purchase and out of the relevance and effectiveness of, first and foremost, the use of the base and economic spending. The Committee on Science and Education asks the following question: "What is envisaged to accelerate the adoption of the provisions on the organisation of funding for the recovery of children for the current year, so that part of the funds begin to arrive in the preparatory period?".. I think there might be only one answer: this is the timely adoption of the State Budget Act 2005. If this is done by you, then the government and the local authorities will do everything they can to make the mistakes that were made this year: the untimely discovery of more than 60 health facilities -- will be eliminated. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations asks: "What steps are being taken by the Government to provide early financing for the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2005, to provide social guarantees and targeted state aid to strengthen the health component in the child health care system?".. First of all, I would like to inform you that the 2005 draft budget, which has been submitted to the Supreme Council, which you have received for consideration, provides for a significant increase in the funding for the rehabilitation of children, including for the first time the budget of the Ministry of the Ukraine for family, children and young people has been allocated and twice as much has been allocated: 30 million dollars. The Ministry of Education and Science has almost 8 million dollars in the draft budget to fund the rehabilitation of children from boarding schools. The following: Minegropolitics also have more funds, 5 million. And the Ministry of Health for the treatment of children with somatic diseases is provided for almost, not nearly, and 47 million dollars, which is also much more. That's what the government is offering. And we're going to ask you very much to support this. Next. Questions from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. "Ukrainian Income Tax Act provides for payment of the travel tax for children received by their parents from employers. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine The government was invited to make proposals by April 1, this year to abolish this rule of law. The National Deputies Overraged and Melnik submitted a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax on the Income of Persons. I want to inform you that the government supports the draft law of the national deputies of Nadrag and Melnik. Of course, the main task of the State is to encourage the family, to invest money in the recovery of their children, and to help families. Thank you for your attention. I have all the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the written questions are answered. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the oral question directly from the session hall. Divenko Hennady Josephovich, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u8	Dear Valentina Ivanovna, thank you for your meaningful report, an interesting report. Many specific examples illustrate what is being done. In general, I would like to tell my fellow national deputies as a member of the College of this Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth that the Ministry and Minister of Human Rights are very active, proactive and working with us, with the Supreme Council in various fields. The question is yes. What can be done to improve the well-being of homeless children and children who are on the Internet? You said that in part when you talked about it. That sad, sad Young Guard that's really in difficult conditions, and people are fighting there. What can we do in this regard, improve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u9	I've already told you that for the first time in this year, we may have performed an organized recovery of 32,000 children who were in our shelters and in the Centres of Social Psychological Rehabilitation. This is practically what we have committed to the local authorities of those children who are in shelters, to bring them all to health facilities, and to heal. And also with the funds allocated in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science, virtually all the children of the boarding school are also cured. Another thing, and we're going to be doing this for sure next year, is we're now going to do this kind of prevention work with fewer children on the streets, and by the way, the things that have recently decreased, we're now starting to work more substantively with disadvantaged families from which children are going out. And so we've already created a data bank, we've got this software, we've got over 130,000 children living in crisis categories in disadvantaged families, we've put into the data bank, we're going to work with them every year to give each of these kids a chance to rest, to get better, and socially, to rehabilitate. And, of course, for this to take money, we will ask you to support the proposals that the government has made. And to uphold, of course, the law that we will pass on to the Supreme Council in November. And I would like to point out that in order to implement your decision, the Supreme Council, this year had for the first time a single line for the organization of child recovery for the local authorities. And almost most of the areas at the district level, at the city level, predicted at least a small cost, and thus made it possible, first of all, to heal those children who are living in crisis situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u10	Hara, faction of Ukraine. Vasil Grigorovitch, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u11	Dear Valentin Ivanovna! The Supreme Council regulation, which you are now reporting, has provided for a whole range of measures to heal children in the summer of 2004. Regrettably, it must be noted that the most important recommendations, namely, the development and implementation of a set of activities to be implemented. and a campaign based on the shortcomings of the previous period, the establishment of a child-retirement tax benefit, the establishment of a government order for the recovery of concessional categories of children, the increase in the number of working camps in 2004, the search for additional funding for 2004 have not been implemented. The question is as follows. What prevented your department and, in general, the Cabinet of Ministers, because it was not only your ministry that was responsible for the implementation of this order, that it should comply with the Supreme Council's order on time and in full? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u12	Dear Vassil Grigorovich! Of course, there may not be a limit to improvement. But I want to give you the next answer. First. Organisational arrangements. As early as December 2004, in order to implement the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council, according to the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco held a large meeting with the participation of local authorities, I mean the deputy heads of the district administrations, and the leaders of the relevant structures, in which children's health facilities are most subordinated, I also mean the Ukrproszdovnica, I mean the Federation of Trades, and I also mean the Silgózdovnica. And it probably did. and the following meetings, as well as a new form of work, such as the individual interviews with the deputy heads of the district administrations and the task given them the opportunity to heal significantly more children this year compared to last year. You remember last year, it's 2 million 149 thousand, according to operational data from areas this year, it's 2 million 548 thousand children. This is our joint work of the Supreme Council of Local Authorities, of the public. Next, on tax benefits. It was that at the beginning of the introduction of the 2004 Budget Act, VAT was taxed, but then again there were thoughts and positions and government, and national MPs who submitted the relevant drafts of the law. And since June 1st, since July 1, I apologize, more faithfully, since June 17 such a tax has begun to take effect. Taking into account all the inadequacies in the draft budget submitted to the Supreme Council for 2005, there are no restrictions on the operation of the articles on land, on the value added tax. Regarding the additional funds, I told you that this year we mobilized 565 million dollars with you, about 480 million in memory last year. More money in the State budget, more money in the local budgets is to execute your decision on a single line on the recovery of children in local government budgets, and more businesses, businessmen and other people with money have been raised. Of course, neither I personally, nor my fellow ministers, nor the government, are satisfied yet with the way in which the program of child recovery is being implemented. We've done, we've put 40 percent on the government's agenda, we've cured 43 percent of the children, we're going to work together, and we're going to heal the children more and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u13	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u14	Dear Valentina Ivanovna, tell me, where do you take your children to expand their recovery, since we have been undergoing a continuous process of birth reduction, apart from the last two years? That's the first question. Next. What is the diet in our children’s health care facilities? And the third. How much or what do parents care about children who spend three weeks in camps? And what is the dynamic of these costs? And finally, I want you to know that our candidate for Presidential Affairs, Mr. Mikolaiovich Simonnka, is envisioned for a radical improvement in the whole case of child recovery in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u15	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Thanks to the faction of Communists, first of all, Catherine Semenovni and Petr Mikolayovich for their cooperation in child recovery. And thank God that we don't share in factions here, and we don't share in parties, we organize this thing together. First. It's different. We have about six million school - age children. And there's still work to do and work and work. And they healed a little over 2 million 500,000. And I want to emphasize that 2 million 545 thousand children who are cured this year are children who are cured, organized at the expense of the State Budget, the local budgets, the Social Insurance Fund and the non-budgetary. We've collected 565 million dollars. The parental cost of curing 2 million 545 thousand children was 14 percent. Of course, the children were also healed by their parents and by buying a trip for 100 percent. So the average pay of parents in curing this number of children was 14 percent. With regard to food standards. They're a little bit bigger this year, even though they're not enough. But quality food was provided because virtually the vast majority of local authorities had decided to spend some 15 percent of their food on children’s health facilities. And with the adoption of the law, a number of normative instruments will be developed that will provide for human resources, insurance, nutrition, and other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u16	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u17	Valentino Ivanovna is usually used in health camps by students in educational institutions who are trained there. And they usually don't have special training for working with children. And that's why I have a question, how do you solve the problem of health care?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u18	You know, this is probably the first time we've worked very closely together, our Ministry of Education and Science. And early in the vast majority of areas, special training courses were organized. About ten days later, students were selected along with their colleges, and they were trained to do so. And this form of work will continue. And in 2005 we're going to start this early. We started this in April-month, we're going to start this early. It's good for the students, too. Well, you know, you've compared the salaries of teachers in children's health care institutions to the salaries of teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u19	Mikola Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u20	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, Trudova Ukraine, 160 constituency, Deaf. Dear Valentina Ivanovna! A thorough analysis of health work, participation in it by ministries and departments, you gave an analysis. The recovery results show that the government, the government of Yanukovič, is in constant concern for the recovery of our next generation, for the recovery of children. But in dealing with the budgets of 2003, 4th and 5th year's project, I, for example, drew attention to the dispersal of funds for this matter at various major cost managers. This is primarily the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Ministry of Power, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And the "Artec" you talked about today is not financed by your ministry. I have a question: how do you coordinate this process, how do you influence equality? The transparency of the distribution when billions of funds go through insurance funds and stuff? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u21	You know, in order to execute your decision, this year is really defined as the only central body of executive authority to coordinate. The Cabinet of Ministers has created an appropriate inter-ministerial commission whose head is Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, and I am a deputy. We've created inter-agency operational headquarters and continuously monitored, coordinated this activity, been in constant contact with local authorities and, by the way, we've been constantly working with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, starting with the committee's departures prior to the start of the health campaign, and thus continuous contact, continuous work and increased responsibility of all ministries' employees to improve the work and, of course, under the control of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u22	Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk, deputy faction of the People’s Agrarian Party
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u23	Dear Valentino Ivanovno, I have such a question. In fact, the Ministry is doing a lot right now, and it's all felt and seen, and we're very grateful for all the initiatives and the big work. But we have a large category of rural children. When all the healthy children are taken, the percentage of children in rural areas is so small that they are even ashamed to be called. And where there's big businesses, it's kind of going. Where there are no people left alone, neither the children of peasants, rural health workers, nor rural teachers are healed. In general, this category is the least affected by recovery. I think it's time to make a special chapter in your program to heal children who would.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u24	Catherine Timothy, dear colleagues, let me answer this question because I am on this rostrum. Indeed, together perhaps both the government and the Supreme Council may have given little attention in previous years to the whole of the important issue, such as the healing of children and, including, rural children. I've already informed you that more than 70,000 children are being cured in specialized schools in rural health care, and there are a lot of them in other institutions, but we don't have that kind of statistics. And I agree with Catherine Timothy that we need to give more attention to rural children. We're going to think about how we're going to pay attention next year, including through projections in rural and rural budget projects at least a little bit, but the cost of curing rural children. And, you know, in this year, there was no rural council in the Odessa region, where at least five, 10,000 would not have been provided for recovery. Some began rebuilding camps, and some began organizing social institutions in the villages on the same day - to - day basis. Indeed, for the following year we should give much more attention to rural children. I agree, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u25	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, please tell me, does your ministry control or take any part in tracking our children's rest abroad, how many? And what do you involve in this foreign foundation or fund? More than that, from the West or the East? How do they help, whether in money or in other ways, to share in the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u27	You know, I've been saying that over 240 different profile camps have been opened up by public organizations. This is usually at the expense of various organizations, including international organizations. And there are different organizations: both from the West and from the East. You know that Ukraine has a way of curing children abroad. At the moment, at the request of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, we are developing a new edition of this order of removal of children abroad for recovery, so that, for once, all coordinating bodies will be placed on us, so that the authorities and departments of the family and young people can be responsible, allow tourist agencies, others who are involved in the organization of child recovery abroad to give permission and to be able to control and prevent any shortcomings. We're exactly how many children are cured abroad we're going to have after 15 November, that's state statistics, I just have no right to call numbers without knowing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u28	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u29	Thank you. Please give the word to today’s nominee, the great friend of Ukrainian children, Cloudy Stepan Ilkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u30	The name is Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, whom we have already welcomed with birthday today, and we once again welcome. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, please tell me how well the orphans are. And please tell me what you're going to call a number, whether it's as real or maybe as it turns out with the Dichtára child, where the Ministry gives that answer. "The Ukrainian Ministry of Family and Children has reviewed your concerns and made a trip to Eupatoria from 8 to 28 August. Goat is informed." [[A goat is a caregiver.]] So I'm telling you, it's all a lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u32	Yes, Your Honor, Stepan Yuhimovich, well, first of all, we have 96,000 orphans and children in the state who are deprived of parental care. All the children of orphans who are in boarding schools who are in foster homes, foster families, and the vast majority of orphans with foster families are cured, I called you a figure. I'll take care of it later. Come on, I'll take care of it after the meeting. I know you're on your way. We'll figure it out. If that's not true. We'll figure it out! We have received various requests from more than 70 deputies, requests for the recovery of children, and the vast majority, most of which we have satisfied. Let's deal with this kid.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u33	Basil Nadrag, Union MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u34	Dear Valentin Ivanovna! As a follow-up to this topic, which my colleague has addressed. On this day of government, my colleagues in the Alliance's parliamentary group wanted me to thank you and your ministry. Because our proposal and our requests, and most of the time we have major MPs, your ministry responded, and we got what we didn't get this year. For the first time, children with disabilities, children of deceased miners, children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and children with disabilities were cured from the State budget. There may be developments in this topic. What is the situation in 2005 because 30 million budgeted this year is normal, but it's only the beginning, in any case, that's how my colleagues and I perceive it. I would like to know the position of the Ministry on how to see the development of the situation of children in these socially vulnerable categories for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u35	Vassil Ivanovich, I said that the government, when developing the 2005 budget, had foreseen the rehabilitation of children in all relevant ministries of expansion: almost twice as many Chernobyls, twice as many of us, by the Ministry of Health. But this is the first stage. And it's usually not enough. And in order to significantly increase the number of children who will be able to be cured in the following year, so that we have all the sanatoriums working around the clock, of course, we need more money, and this is the right of the Supreme Council, as well as what we have now become more profitable, we have reserves, and we have the opportunity to use more money in the social sphere. If by orphans, by children with divinative behavior, we need 50 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u36	Oleg Petrov, faction of the People's Democratic Party of Ukraine and industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u37	Dear Valentina Ivanovna! I wanted to get my attention. You know, we're in the towers and from your government colleagues and national MPs, and we need a government day. What do I want to emphasize? In March of this year, the President of Ukraine ordered the organization of summer rest, and the Supreme Council considered the matter. Very big issues have been raised, these are, first of all, VAT, fixed terms and so forth. I want to emphasize to you that this issue of VAT has been of concern to everyone today, and most of today's camps, the basis of rest due to this issue have not been found by any child today. So I have a question: is there a real mechanism in the Ministry to control all of these decisions that come out very correctly, but unfortunately, and I think it's both executive and legislative bodies that don't come to the end of these decisions and that's why specific people suffer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u38	You know, with respect to VAT, we've discussed this. In March, the Supreme Council decided to recommend changes to the budget, and on April 1, these changes were made, and on June 16, you voted, thank you, supported. That's the first one. The other one. The Ministry, like other central executives, has certain powers. Third. For there to be fewer problems, it is certainly necessary to adopt the law. We will consider it at a government meeting in October and pass it on to the Supreme Council in November, according to the plan of work. And it's predominant. And then very many problems will be regulated, defined by legislation, and the law must be enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u39	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u40	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, in answer to her colleague’s questions, you said that there were reserves. I would like to know exactly what additions you propose to increase the cost of budgeting for the child’s recovery due to the availability of reserves. I mean in terms of first reading. If there are reserves, you might add. And the second question is. A healthy child, happiness of course. What, though, is planned by the Ministry to ensure that each of the vulnerable categories, such as orphans, disabled children, children with physical and mental disabilities, and the individual problem of homelessness are necessarily and given opportunities for recovery each year? Because it's not a local budget issue, it's a matter of the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u41	In 2003, there were 4 million in the Ministry's budget for the recovery of children, mostly the categories you're talking about. In 2004, there were 4, with a change of 15 million, a project for the 2005 budget of 30 million. This will certainly enable children with divinative behavior who are undergoing rehabilitation in our institutions, as well as a large proportion of children from caregivers’ families, and a large proportion of children from disadvantaged families to be healed. I was talking about the reserves that took place in 2004 in connection with the increase in budget revenues, as well as the improvement in the economic situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u42	Sergei Petrovich Gmira, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Valentin Ivanovna, I have questions about your statistics. I'm looking at operational information on the recovery of concessional children. This is the category of gifted children: 41,000 children in the Gitomir region, in the Kirovograd region of 1200. I'm a little surprised by that kind of statistics. It is true that although the Zitomir region has tripled the percentage of those children's journeys, 10 times the number of children there has actually healed this category than in Kirovogradska. Well, what's 40 times the stupidest area or what's that supposed to mean? And the second question is statistical. These are children from many children and poor families. The sum area, only 3182, was provided with 30,000 500 with surplus. I mean, like, ten times. I don't know who got these trips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u44	Regarding the healing of children who are talented and gifted. As you can see, it is our responsibility for local authorities to heal orphans, children deprived of parental care, children with disabilities, children with Chernobyl children, children whom we call them, with divinative behavior, that is our duty. And here we have, as you'll see in statistics, almost the indicator is the same in almost all areas. Next. Children next are children from low - income families, first of all, of course, many children. That's why we're asking for the next indicator. And you also have to support gifted children, because you have to use summer to develop creative skills. And if there are different indicators, I'm going to look at them, it tells us about the different attitudes of the local authorities to these issues. We'll meet at the Supreme Council meeting sometime next month to meet with representatives of the district administrations and analyze all the figures, and all the facts you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u45	Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, please. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Agrarian Party
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u46	In the past, a powerful network of so - called pioneer camps has been established for the summer’s recovery of school youths, and they have a rather solid basis for recreation and child care. Among them were many who were created as intercommunal and inter-economic institutions. In the process of reforming these businesses, their property is not incinerated, since social facilities were not capable of despoiling. So the question is, what is the material base of these health facilities today? Who owns their belongings? How many of these have been retrained, and for what purposes, and to what extent has this resource been used to heal rural children?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u47	I've already told you that 107 children's health facilities that belong to the Health Center and the Health Care Centre coordinate their activities, they don't stop their activities, they don't change their profile, and they work. Of course, you agree with the fact that there's a part of it, we used to call it "mighty houses," yes, health facilities, and they're sitting there in these 114 out-of-town health facilities or sanatoriums that we haven't restored today, which we haven't restored to child health today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u48	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u49	Nikolainka, faction of socialists, Hersonian. Dear Valentina Ivanovna! I won't, even though I'm a representative of the opposition, but I won't underestimate the value of the government's work. But I am deeply convinced today that the government is bluffing so much, as, look, we're talking about healing. Today, 500 grand is being taught in the trades sector. Children. Last year, you put 25 units of food per day per student. This year, in a winning budget that has been written even on crosses, 38 copies per day. Then we will have to heal the student, after he has learned to be a professional, at least another five years. And I can call it another. I'm here today, not paying for the kids, and so on. Why? We counted in income, income from land that never gives birth to the same Hersonian. From across this land, what people were given, no one gets help for children. Children are starving. How will these questions be considered by the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u50	With regard to government assistance to families with children On behalf of the government, I would like to inform you that, starting in 2003, all payments of state aid to families with children have been eliminated in accordance with the law, with the new edition you have adopted, and have been in effect since 1 January 2002. And, today, we don't have a debt on payments to families with children -- that's the first. The other one. If in 2000 the State Budget for the Implementation of the Law on State Aid to Families with Children provided 397 million. The 2004 budget for government assistance to families with children provides almost 1 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. 8 months worth of money and funding, about 1 billion dollars. Two hundred million. The money is funded for government assistance to families with children. The 2005 budget for state aid to families with children, including nutrition, and everything else, provides more than 2 billion children. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u51	George Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u52	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Valentino Ivanovna, I feel that there is not exactly the right trend when those children who really deserve to be healed are unable to do so in full volume. And there are many cases where children of more wealthy parents, even though they also need to be healed, are using those rights that should be used for the benefit categories. Take a look in the Chernobyl area: orphans, children deprived of parental care -- 80 percent are cured. Children with disabilities are less than half. Children affected by the CHAES disaster are about 40 percent. Children from many children and poor families — 60 percent of them are cured. Generally speaking, 42.9 percent of children are cured and this is an abnormal trend and needs to be corrected because this is our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u53	I fully agree with you that it is necessary for every child not only to have the right, but also to be able to heal is the first. The other one. If in 2000 we were cured 1 million years ago. Children and in 2004 2 million children were cured. Five hundred and forty-five thousand, that's what you have to take the money for, make it and make it better for that number of kids. So we will work together, work better, adopt laws that protect, really protect the interests of children, heal more children, and have a better health. In the Chernobyl area, by the way, this year has been a much better year of recovery and much more children, first of all from multi-child families, there are a lot of many multi-child families, including many-child families, who are being treated more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u54	Zara Katusheva, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u55	The Communist faction. Dear Valentin Ivanovna, in these difficult circumstances, we are once again convinced that the most difficult area is headed by our courageous women. On behalf of the Crimeans, I would like to thank you and the wonderful. The Crimean Republican Committee for Family and Youth, Samuelka Catherine Simeonovna, for the enormous work you do. Thanks to our children's socially unprotected stretch of 40.2 per cent this year, they rested in children's camps. Unfortunately, however, we have to admit that this is not enough. The problem will only be solved when all 100 per cent are healed, we can talk about 100 per cent. Unfortunately, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are still re-profiling child recovery camps. Issara camp in Yalta.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u56	I can tell you that I will deal with this fact. Of course, we have these facts. That is why the Cabinet of Ministers has passed a decree banning public and public. And now we're going to make changes and additions to the relevant laws, and we're going to ask very much to support you so that you don't expect debts in bankruptcy to be calculated by camps.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u57	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u58	Ivan Boki, please. You don't? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u59	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I ask you to give the floor to Peter Poshenko, the head of the Solidarity Party of our bloc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u60	Peter Dustenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I would like to ask you this question. In the 2004 draft budget, which was signed by Viktor Yanukovic, we've already talked about this in the hall today, the cost of the child's recovery was taxed on the added value. For six months that rule worked. The "Our Ukraine" faction is clear. Victor Yushchenka’s block was strongly denied, and that is why she did not vote in favour of the law. There are the Prime Minister's signatures, there are the votes of members of the majority. Just before the election, this rule was annulled. You're not told it's just a pre-election trick. What did the government do when making such a decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Poshenko, well, first of all, you know that we've been with you on this. began the discussion even when the election was not discussed. This is the beginning of this year as was the end of last year. And in the end, they found a common language. If we find and continue to share a common language on all issues related to improving the status of children, I am confident that we will make a better life for our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u63	Yes, Alexander Baranowski. I can't see. Mikola Shulga. Oh, there is. Excuse me, excuse me. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u64	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, as you would like to think of the fact that you are directly involved with the relevant young people, so to speak, I would say, shares in educational institutions -- something that not long ago took place in Žitomir and practically where a specific job is being done with the support of one of the presidential candidates. You're an official, the law is clearly forbidden, and the question is, if we're young like this, we're going to talk, and we're going to raise the power to raise, who's going to grow out of them? Are these going to be the law-abiding people who will respect the state of Ukraine, the symbols of the state, or are going to be aware that they're going to have contempt for power, as most of the population of society today, the society as it relates to power, because they understand what the authorities are doing is not what they need to do. How will they react? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u65	If this is true of the State Education University of Gitomir, where I really was, because we supported one of the social projects through the initiative of Rector Sauch through the Zitomir District Office in the family and young people. And we're doing everything we can to make every university in the next few years have a student social service, every university has a student employment center, where we can also provide social services to students, and we're doing secondary employment for students, and we're doing future employment. And I totally know, I remember telling the students. There I gathered acts and told them how economic, social, family, child, and youth policies were being implemented. And we were associated with the implementation of public policy, including the work of the Supreme Council, the work of government, the local executive authorities. I know the Electoral Law very well and have never violated it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u66	Mikola Shulga, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u67	Mikola Shulga, Communist faction. Dear Valentina Ivanovna! Please tell us who is responsible for the training programs of the summer camps. Because it's not just health work, it's education. We are now more focused on such material matters. What about discipline, who forms? You and I live in a climate of pluralism, and on what basis do these programs form worldview, aesthetic, ethical? And the last aspect is actually the same question: is there control over programs that educate health camps that are formed by public organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u68	You know, we live with you in a pluralistic society, and we have freedom of speech, and you know, of course, we need to be with you, and the Supreme Council, the government, the local authorities, have developed programs, laws, implemented them, and thus influenced the formation of world-viewed positions and the upbringing of young people -- that's why you and I have worked with the deputies and the National Patriotic Education Act, which we discussed in the first reading. In terms of educational programs. We've been together for the second year with the Ministry of Education and Science, along with the Institute of Pedagogics, developing these methodological recommendations, then distributing them in areas, and the districts are gathering directors of children's health institutions and conducting seminars with them to make use of this in their practical activities. It's about the public. We do the same with social organizations. By the way, we have about 10 social organizations, including children and young people, won a fund-raising competition last year. It's a lot of different social organizations. Of course, we work with them, help them, promote them, control how they do it, and receive their creative reports from them. Well, I'm a long way from thinking about what we've done. This is the beginning of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u69	Valentina Seminouk. Leonid Vernigora, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u70	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Valentina Ivanovna, we don't discuss it with you in the first place, we count. Well, that's our destiny, we're dealing with these issues. I'd like to give you a little sympathy. Why? If you continue to hold this position, to embrace it, it is not convenient for you to submit this high rate of statistics, something like 27 percent beyond that year, 34, 42. With you, we will have to give our assignments as the Ministry of Family and Youth to give young families assignments. That the children may be increased, for no one shall be healed. And the second. And yet, out of 143 million, you say it's state funds, and I'd like to separate them somehow. Because here the very left-hand side is social insurance, where it's the premiums of insured persons, that's the parent's money, that's not the government's budget, you know, yeah, and there's three month's maintenance of veterans or cheese children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u72	Well, first of all. Well, I don't know how you and I can be satisfied at a very high rate if we have only 43 percent of the children in a healthy state. If we were to talk about 99 already, then we could calm down no matter what places we have now and in the future. It's different. If you care about where to take the children to continue to heal them, I want to tell you that in the first half of this year, there were 20,000 more in our country, 195 there were thousands last year, 215,000 children this year, that's 10 percent more, and that trend is going to stay. Third. I'm not here to report high figures, but to report on how the central and local executives, together with the public, and with very many people's deputies, are ensuring the implementation of the Supreme Council and the State Programme on Child Health and Recreation. And each one takes the report in his own way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u73	Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna. Anyone who wanted to ask a question got that opportunity. Please rest because it's been here for an hour and a half. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Catherine Seminal Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The government’s day on the mentioned issue is due to the constant tendency to worsen children’s health during recent years. First of all, this is explained by socio-economic, environmental negative factors and leads to a reduction in immunity, chronic diseases, and an exacerbation of children's disability. During recent years, a number of measures have been taken at the national level to organize, heal, and relax school - age children during summer vacations. It is also positive that the budgets of all levels provide for funding for this activity and that funding increases every year. You remember how the State budget of Ukraine was accepted and for the current year almost unanimously, almost all factions, forgetting to fund the healing of the children of the agrarians, not predicting a single penny for these purposes, and reducing by 42 million dollars the recovery of children affected by the Chernobyl accident. So we have to ask the government a question, but we have to ask ourselves why we missed such a state budget in Ukraine. And thanks to the local budgets, we have managed to level the situation, and these categories of children have also been healed. But despite this, it is not yet possible to ensure that all the children who need it are cured. It is clear that it is impossible to eliminate the deficit of funds, to radically improve the material and technical base in the area of recovery in a short period of time. That is why only 42 percent of school - age children were cured this summer. But a number of questions are also awe - inspiring. According to the government, a fairly solid legal basis has been established for the recovery and rest of children and for the full resolution of this problem. At the beginning of each recovery season, there are numerous problems with the organization and financial provision of the child’s recovery process. In particular, let me give you an example. Although the Ukrainian national deputies urged the government to implement economic mechanisms to reduce the cost of children’s travel, the government insisted that the State’s State Budget Act 2004 suspend the benefits of taxing them with added value taxes. As a result, the cost of travel increases considerably. In fact, the work of many children’s institutions in the first shift was ruined. At the same time, it was recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that this benefit be reinstated, and finally, the Cabinet sent out appropriate proposals, but too late. And it only started to work in July. This is after the vast majority of travel for the entire summer season has been completed. It is also unclear why, contrary to the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no changes have been made to the current legislation on the elimination of the payment of travel taxes for children received from their parents by employers? Is it possible to explain that the Ministry of Emergency Situations has conducted a tender for the purchase of medical guides for children who have suffered from an accident at CAES? As a result, their recovery began only in May, if in the previous years of January-month. And now the flaws are chronically repeated every year, namely, the fact that children’s well - being facilities have been discovered in a timeless way. Among the leaders in this front are far from the poor blasts themselves: Dnipropetrovska, Donetska, Kharkivska, Odessa, Lvivska, Autonomous Republic of Crimea — only 67 facilities. Next. Who allowed children’s health facilities to be opened without consent to the appropriate public health service. It's about Ternopil, Odessa, Kharkiv Obalstej -- almost 100 children's institutions. What about feeding our children? According to the relevant services, almost 700 children's health care facilities were tested and 90 percent of them were damaged. Food shortages, food shortages, low quality products, rations were less expensive, and products were purchased at prices much higher than averages in Ukraine. The question is, Are the facilities open to the recovery of children, or are they designed to enrich the leaders of these institutions? In order to rob already disadvantaged children from multi-child families, children with disabilities, orphans, the Chernobyl family. The problem of quality human resources for the healing process has become a traditional one. Only selective tests this summer have revealed the fact that there has been a shortage of qualified personnel, a reduction in staffing, a weak education organization, and all of this has resulted in accidents. The question of the organization remains unanswered. monitoring the non-admissibility of changes in profile during privatization, including specialized institutions and the efficient use of budgetary resources. I would like to give you just one example. The Kharkiv Kondecioner factory had a beautiful camp in Hersonian that worked from May to October for many years. During the privatization, social exclusion took place and the camp was handed over to the Herson Regional Trust. He, in turn, handed over the camp to a questionable firm with the right people, and now there are foreign citizens from Holland -- members of the Makarishi religious community -- and a health facility that has 500 people living there. Both the Henprocurator's office and the holding fund end with a write-off. And to be honest, it was with regard to such shortcomings that we today wanted to hear specific answers: Who was responsible for such disadvantages. These and many other problems could be prevented if they were properly regulated by the law, which was repeatedly emphasized in this room. We believe that it is only at the legislative level that the economic mechanism for implementing the resource potential of the health sector can be identified, that compulsory health insurance and the life of children can be introduced for the recovery period, that comprehensive improvement and strengthening of the entire infrastructure, and that a number of other issues can be addressed. Only by law can a strategy for recovery and rest be developed and approved, not only in the summer, but throughout the year. Because it is not normal to think that the development of a network of children’s health facilities is mainly due to an increase in the number of day - care camps in schools where more than 62 percent of all children have recovered in the summer of this year. This seems to be a way out of tight budget funding, but is this an example of a full recovery? Cheap is not always rational. In summary, we propose to the government to speed up the introduction of the relevant bill to the Supreme Council and to develop a qualitatively new state-wide programme for the recovery and rest of children in Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, I point out that we are early in the Government's Day on the mentioned issue, in October, at the end of the year, in order that, without losing precious time, during the period left before the start of the new healing season, the appropriate executive authorities could not only take all the shortcomings into account, but also take real action to organize the full recovery and rest of our children next summer. And I want to talk to my colleagues, to those who are in the hall today. To those of you who are currently working in the districts for the election of the President of one or the other. I want to see you. Today, many questions were asked to the minister. Without taking the blame from the Ministry, from the government, I want us to ask ourselves why we've adopted such a budget as most children. Thanks to which most children have not been able to recover. And they voted, once again, almost unanimously, almost all the factions. Except for one faction, the faction that I represent -- yes, the Communist Party of Ukraine. And so before asking questions, let's ask ourselves if we did everything we could to make the recovery really happen on a national level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u75	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Dear colleagues, information and co-information we have heard, we are moving on to the discussion. Perhaps this is the way to consult, dear colleagues. We've got speakers. We agreed to talk for 40 minutes. That's what we're actually going to do. Maybe we wouldn't be taking a break, but we would be having a discussion right now if I didn't object to Valentin Grigorovitch. And then we decided on our next move. Is there no objection? Let's move on to the performances. Please give us the names of the national deputies who are registered. Basil Nadrag is invited to speak. Excuse me, Volodymyr Puzakov is invited to the presentation. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u76	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In recent years there has been a tendency in Ukraine to worsen children’s health. Children still have a high level of disability. Nor does it bother the authorities that 90 percent of social orphans fill the criminal world. I would like to hear the truth about the well - being of these social orphans. In Kirovgradska alone, they are about 2,000 people and live on hot showers and basements year after year, although they are soon to be healed because they are developing a program that requires 100,000 dollars to be implemented. [[in cages]] In the area of about two thousand disabled children, more than 24,000 children from multi-child families and more than 5,000 children from Chernobyl. As many as 443,000 dollars were provided for the rehabilitation of their budgets in the districts and cities. But did the children recover from the cost? Of course not. Although reports from local authorities have healed all 100 percent. Yes, all children are healed in the reports, but it is only you and your children who are being healed, the rulers. How can the children be healed when nine are in place of 32 fixed health camps in Soviet times today. And in the brigantina health camp in Kirovgrad, no polio child is cured. The same is true of all nine health camps in the area. Even though the children of Chernobyl need to be healed in both health camps and in sanatoriums. And what sanitariums might be about when the accountant parents have spent years getting a trip for the child to the sanatorium. Shame on a state where 32,000 young citizens are being healed with a population of 47 million while in Belarus with a population of 9 million, 212 thousand children are being healed. I mean, there's something to think about in power. And unfortunately, the shortcomings of the health campaign last year are not included in this year, and again, unfortunately, they are repeated. But unlike you, anti - national rulers, we Communists do not stand apart from childish problems. For example, for the concern, indeed, of the Ukrainian presidential candidate Simonek Petar Mikolaiovich was healed free of charge by a group of black children who were treated in a sanatorium on the coast of the Azov Sea. That is why even children of Ukraine urge all honest people to give their vote on election day for the faithful son of the people of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, who will give a happy and dignified life to children in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u77	The word has a national MP, Nadrag, to prepare Harry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u78	Vassili Nadraga, MP “Soyuz”, Lugansk Region. Today we can assess the situation as we wish or as it exists. If it's what it is, I'll get some numbers. In the same Luhansk region, 43,000 834 children were healed in 2004, an increase of 20,000 in 2003, respectively. And if 838 children's camps were working in 2003, 1,078 were already operating this year. So when we evaluate the situation today, I think we can assess it in two ways. What trend? That's a positive trend. What is the situation with regard to the coverage of children? Here is what we are working on and fully agreeing with all those who have said that there is something to work on and executive power in the face of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Sectoral Affairs, and hence our Supreme Council as the body that primarily influences the formation of the financial components of these processes. I must tell you that only in the Lugansk region, without a small 9 million dollars, has been allocated to the organization of child-recovery budgets at all levels. A lot or a little bit? I think it's not bad if we compare again what happened in previous years. In general, perhaps by diverting from the main theme of my statement, I will say this: we can today talk about positive, including in such an interesting way as the relationship of the Supreme Council with the executive power, in this case we can talk about normal business work on one side of the Ministry, on the other side of the special committee, because the positive things that we get in this room are connected to the fact that we understand each other somewhere. We, I mean the Supreme Council or the relevant committee, to be exact, and the Ministry, respectively. I think that's an example that makes sense to think about other professional committees connected to certain topics. But still going back to the problem. All right, trouble. Today, the problem remains the exemption from the land tax of children's sanatorium health institutions on the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that the problem here is that it is necessary to develop and agree on a simplified registration mechanism for children's health institutions, not only those on the roster, but also all those who are currently involved in the rehabilitation of children, who today must receive other benefits, including land tax. Second. I think that we should finally close the issue of the abolition of VAT, the value added tax on children's journeys, once and for all. I also wanted to say that we, today, are budgeted, and I think we should support this. And the last. Speaking of what we must do, we are deeply convinced that we must go and close the issue of children's health institutions closing debt to businesses today. Therefore, the proposal for a change to the budget, which I think has been made here, is necessary. In general, we are deeply convinced that we must remain positive in the recovery of children and understand clearly that we can and must do everything we can and must do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u79	The word has been given to the national MP Hara, followed by Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, it must be recognized that, over the past two years, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has begun to pay increasing attention to the issues of summer recovery, thus halting the collapse of the existing system and changing the attitude of State regional organizations towards one of the most important acts of the State. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, who, as Governor of the Donetsk Region, has personally addressed these issues and is unaware of the importance and effectiveness of the child's summer recovery. Regrettably, however, we cannot say to this day that we have a comprehensive summer recovery system in place in Ukraine, that the decision of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers is fully implemented on the ground, that all levels of power are equally responsible for this most important public matter. Regrettably, there is still no serious public policy in this sector, there is no Child Health and Recreation Act, there is no relevant regulatory framework, such as social standards in this sector, guidelines for food management, documents for monitoring the activities of camps, instructions or any other instrument that determines the level of salaries of workers, conditions and working arrangements. There is no system and no clear mechanism for the responsibility of managers at all levels for poor health management. We have already talked about the abolition of child travel tax benefits, but no one has been punished to date. And we got less well twice this June of the year than we did last June. Or another example. According to data from the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions in the Herson area, child health camps were not only not exempt from local taxes and taxes, but also in violation of the decisions of the Supreme Council and the Kabmin decision on services took money from institutions held at the expense of public and local budgets. This increased the cost of each camp from 50,000 to 70,000 bracelets. Who are the authors of this vileness, and what punishment has he suffered? By the way, we see only the Prime Minister and vice-premiers for the Abbreviation of the KM, more precisely the Cabinet of Ministers, and in fact certain departments and heads of state are behind this definition. In the light of the foregoing, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers fully implement the Order of 18 March 2004. My comments are critical to the annex on the substance of the issue under discussion. To invite the Cabinet, the Ministry of Family Affairs, the regional public administrations, to undertake their work to heal children in greater contact with the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, its regional associations. Because they are the main bearers of the experience of working with children. And we can't get rid of accounts and work with social organizations. And we have two of them: Leleka Association and Association of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, which is professionally involved in child health. Finally, decisions taken by the Supreme Council must be fully implemented within a certain time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u81	The word has been given to the national deputy of Shershun. After him, Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u82	Mikola Shershun, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, members of the government. Of course, from previous hearings on this issue there are positive developments in the child - recovery organization. But the faction of the National Agrarian Party is concerned about a number of other problems. First. Improvements in the situation were due to the recovery of children at the local base. But today there is a steady destruction of local health facilities, most of which are in rural areas. After all, there has never been a centralized allocation of funds for their preparation for the healing season. And the readiness of the bases is that only firefighters this year have halted the exploitation of more than 700 buildings, buildings, and health - care facilities. In our view, if there is a national recovery program, the state should also finance the preparation of all facilities for the healing season. The faction invites the government to develop funds in the State budget and to provide in the State budget and to develop a financing mechanism for at least those institutions that cure children of socially vulnerable categories, especially orphans and Chernobyl. The other one. Today, there's a real threat of halting the work of children's sanatoriums, which are outside the health system, because all the other facilities that are healing and not treating children have not gone to Order No. 701, which exempts them from VAT. But these institutions are nonprofitable, because only they had implemented the above - mentioned Order before they could pay the tax at their own expense. So they're going to stop, and there's going to be nowhere to heal the children. The problem is not solved for a long time, although I have personally addressed the authorities, the response is still zero. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I would like to say that even inconspicuously, such a serious interest in solving the problem and on the part of the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth. Therefore, we urge the government to bring matters into line with the State’s program of child recovery. And the last. The faction noted that only the principal administrators are the health - care costs of seven. We believe that dispersal of finances contributes to abuse, leads to irresponsibility. For example, the Ministry of Emergency Situations did not provide for sufficient expenditure under this article, was delayed with tenders, resulting in the loss of four months, and many affected children were not cured. I don't blame the Ministry or the Minister himself, because there's almost no blame here. It's whoever invented this scheme. The People's Agrarian Party's faction suggests that the government ensure that health funds are concentrated by one of the government's professional ministries, so that it's clear who specifically cures children and carries them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Katusheva, followed by Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u84	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. In the uniqueness of Crimea land, both in the climate and in the existing health base for recreation and children and adults, there is no need to convince those present, and that fact is beyond doubt. But if we can make the right use of the opportunities that nature itself has given us, unfortunately, a huge question. If there were no problems in the Soviet times with sending children to pioneer camps and sanatoriums, everyone had to receive travel in trades at a symbolic and almost ridiculous price, or free of charge, it was now a very expensive pleasure for most Ukrainian parents. If the logistics base was being strengthened during Soviet times, children's health care facilities were being equipped, their quantity and quality were increasing, we are now obliged to note that we have already reached the most sacred, child health facilities. They're changing the owner, and I'm changing the profile. On 7 June, a children's camp “Isara” in the city of Yalta was sold to one of the construction cooperatives. This. Churches on queues and other hospitals. The Komarovo Children's Institute in Foros is also at risk. Unfortunately, there is a problem of re-profiling children's institutions and it cannot but be disturbed. Experience with child and adolescent recovery in 2004 has shown that a number of problems need to be addressed at the state level. There is a need to improve the legislative and regulatory framework for the adoption of legislation on child health. The absence of an incentive mechanism for economic actors with health facilities cannot be without concern. In the process of establishing the State budget for Ukraine, funds for the rehabilitation of children of concessional categories should be included in the expenditure portion of local budgets for inter-budgetary transfers. There is also a need for exemption from the cost of child health benefits. This year, unfortunately, this has only been done since the first June. In the light of the natural climate conditions, the Crimea needs to allocate funds to the Social Insurance Fund for temporary disability in order to organize day-care camps for children. There is a need to provide for funding from the State budget for the round-the-clock recovery of children. I'm sure with the victory of our national candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u85	Please, Solomon. He's got Proscuratov on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u86	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Dear national deputies, representatives of the government, distinguished radio listeners! Every year on the day of the government, we're discussing the organization of child recovery, and especially the representatives of our committee and our faction are paying attention to the healing of the Chernobyl children, the victims. Every year we hear about the government’s intentions to increase the number of children’s health. And I want to suggest that we take a look at it and analyze how this is actually done. I'll give you figures on the number of children who have been affected by the Chernobyl disaster. In 1998, 482,000 children were cured, three years later, in 2001, 346, in 2002, 283,000, last year 246,000. So over the last five years, the number of healthy children has dropped by about 50,000 annually, and according to the total number and according to the Chernobyl law, about 900,000 children are to be cured each year. On the last day of the government on this issue, we were assured that the introduction of the new governance mechanism would make the situation better, but unfortunately that was not the case, and that is what my colleague, Shershoun Mikola Haritonovich, was talking about in his speech, and so I'm shortening part of my speech. On October 11, 73,000 children were healed at the expense of the State Budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Where are we going? At the same time, 158 thousand children were healed in 2003. So what I want to stress is that for the last three years, the State budget had the same amounts, they were repeated year after year, 155 million dollars. But it is now clear that this amount is not sufficient, for some part of it is used not only for the purchase of travel but also for the transportation of children, but also for some of the compensatory expenses associated with unused travel. That's why I want to say it. The Chernobyl budget, unfortunately, is made up of expenditure each year that does not ensure the implementation of the Chernobyl law and that the Chernobyl law can only be implemented under one condition -- when the President of Ukraine becomes a communist, a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, Peter Simonenko, then the Chernobyl business will be decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u87	The word has the national deputy of Proscuratov. Behind her, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the faction of SDPU(o) thinks that last summer is a kind of reflection of the new state policy on children in the future of Ukraine. The Government’s 2004 action programme: consistency, efficiency, responsibility is assigned to the executive authorities to ensure at least 40 percent of the child’s recovery. We approve of the tradition of making professional, thematic changes for gifted young, talented children, athletes, and educational differences. We especially note how the government’s activities, including those of the Ministry of Family and Youth, have benefited from the rehabilitation of children in the category of benefits: orphans, Chernobyls, and the loss of parental care. It is good that, according to the Prime Minister of Ukraine's mandate, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to work on the mechanism for the procurement of child-recovery travel for the public budget, but unfortunately, such travels have come late. And unfortunately, there have been accidents in some health camps that won the tender. Among their reasons is the irresponsible attitude of the staff of these facilities toward their responsibilities. There was room for serious food shortages, and there were occasions when children were taken home. There's an offer from parents, from local authorities to pay more attention to once, so-called, urban or inter-community camps, because in many areas they are, and to allow a larger category of children to get better at their place of residence, because in rural areas they are usually children from low-income families. Social families that don't fall on the list of the benefit category. Even though the child will have a piece of meat in the camp instead of a potato. We think that we need state intervention and training for the leadership of pedagogical personnel in this area. Educators, and this is usually the students of the doublets. Those who practice are often unprepared to work with children. I know from experience because in the past I was an artechian driver, and then the head of the pioneer camp, which is a fun vacation, the employment of children in a health care facility is more important to them than any other factor. The faction SDPU(o) believes that by the time the Ukrainian Law on Rest and Recovery of Children was adopted. The adoption of the document will allow for the creation of a single legislative field in Ukraine to regulate existing legislation on this issue. And in summary, we note that the number of children who are provided with summer rest each year is increasing, as the quality of rest increases, although no one rejects problems or shortcomings. This is the result of the consolidation of efforts, government authorities at various levels, to solve problems in the protection of children’s rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u89	Please, Shurma, follow him Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u90	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, [[united]] The parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party has repeatedly stressed the importance of child recovery and believes that this issue should become one of the priorities of state policy. [[united]] It's the principle of the faction's position, and we're going to be looking for all available means to realize it. We consider the adoption of the State Programme for the Recovery and Recreation of Children to be a serious step towards an effective solution. About the time. The document’s timing is also evidenced by what is now known as the 2004 recovery summary. The introduction of a schedule of specific actions for the recovery of children has allowed for new, really significant, indicators even compared to the previous year: 42.9 to 34.2 percent of the healthy school - age children. The next step should be legislative work. First. Change the Bankruptcy Act of Ukraine to state that children of socially vulnerable categories are not allowed to be transferred for debts to prominent children's health facilities. Such institutions should be transferred to the authorities of the State to restore their activities as children’s health camps, which will function at the expense of the budget. The next step is the adoption of the Ukrainian Children's Rest Act, as discussed by the previous speaker. The faction also stressed the need for this law in the past Government Day. Unfortunately, this law still exists in the form of a project that is still being developed and will probably be brought before the Cabinet of Ministers. With regard to the law, the MP’s faction of SDPU(o) takes the following position: it is necessary to organize the work as much as possible, since the value of the law is extremely high, it is the health of Ukrainian children. The economic problems associated with the recovery of children under the law have also been resolved without plan and more effectively. In law, all these points can be reconciled once and for all, thereby simplifying as much as possible the annual procedure for child recovery. In general, the parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine wants to celebrate the considerable efforts of today's government in the organization and in particular by the children's health campaign in 2004 and offers information to the government on the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the summation of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2003 and on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the organization of rest and the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2004. [[united]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u91	Stanislaw Nikolaynko has the right to speak for six minutes in connection with Shibko Vitaly’s presentation. Next, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to thank Vitalia Šibka, the professor who posted my word here. I don't think there's anything as valuable in Ukraine as our children, our future. But if you look very closely at our budgets, the decisions that we make often, we forget about our children. We can pay for all the state spending. We can channel funds to the government, the President's Administration, international affairs, but allocate sufficient funds to local and state budgets to support children, for that! I want to say frankly on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine that, in fact, recently there has been something really going on, and Valentina Ivanovna is actively working as the minister of the family and the young. But I would like to say that the Socialist Party of Ukraine always actively supports all programs aimed at supporting childhood in all the ballots. Not enough, I'd like to say from Valentina Ivanovna that for the initiatives of Alexander Moroz and Vitalia Šibka, which our delegates in Socitern, we also heal groups of children in Europe every month from low-income families in order for them to be able to become familiar with another foreign situation. But something on the other hand, on behalf of the socialist faction, I want to look at the healing issue, and I'm going to try to do that. I would like to ask this sacramental question: Where do our children lose their health so that they can recover? Let us see where our children are losing our health, and if we can cover these channels, they will surely be healthier. See, preschool coverage in Ukraine today is about 50 percent. And there are areas where the coverage is less than 30 percent, let's say in Plain. In this regard, I ask how many children are fed in our families today, especially in rural areas. I'm going to say that much lower than any standard, and many of them are poor. We need to make preschool coverage up to 70 to 80 percent today. This is also the task of Alexander Frost in his program. The other one. A family. I've already told Valentina Ivan's questions. We today, when we define state social assistance for families, we include, from the Ministry of Labour initiative, income, income from land, income from land. And as a result, let's say I'm in a district in Hersonian, it's the same thing in Crimea, in Santa, in Clothing, in Dniproperty, none of the people who were being forced into this land, they don't know what to do with it, it's a big trouble, they all lose the right to state social assistance. And today, practically, and children don't get densely. In each letter I receive 3, 4, 5 letters a day, I cannot form state social assistance. The earth has not been born in five years, and no one is helping me in this land, and the children are starving. Next. School. We had a tradition, and we all remember that in times of war, children were fed once in schools and vocational schools, and so forth. One way or another, we were fed. For several years now, we have not fed our children at all. This year, the government, thank God, has offered the first and fourth classes to feed children. And today, we have by no means more than half of the children who go to the Armed Forces are suffering from gastrointestinal diseases and so on. But even what is offered 1.3 dollars per child will not solve the problem. I've already spoken in the field of vocational education. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address both the Budget Committee and the government. As it is, 25 copies in the past year, an employee's time, 55 percent of the school time, is physical work in PTU, we're giving him 25 copies a day. Last year, thanks to God, the government added 27 copies. There will be 38 copies this year. Why don't you spend it? I think we need to focus on that. Five hundred thousand children are starving. Technicians and Nodes. Half the dining room is closed today. The system that prepared the food, the cost of it all, it's gone. Who's doing student feeding today and all that? Even agrarian universities and technicians don't have dining rooms. We have 55 percent of the student's education today is the parent's tuition fee. We passed a law to support higher education, I'm talking to Dmitri Volodymyrovich, I know he didn't seem to mind, but why do you want to take the government's initiative to commit this law twice? Where we gave the land tax benefits for the students' rest base and so forth, where we gave the colleges an extra 500 million to make money on tuition. Sports. Well, we put a few hundred million into the Olympics and did a good job. But this year, as many as 10 million dollars were spent on the entire student and student sport, 10 million dollars. One bracelet at a schoolboy. I was in the White Church watching the All-U.S. Sports School Games with easy athletics. Ten men of elje elje from each area came to compete. I think we need to do everything we can to make sure that our children don't lose their health, that our children are healthy, and then we don't need a lot of noise because of the recovery. You need to be healed, and you need to make sure that your children do not lose their health. And I think that Alexander Alexander Moroz, who will become president, will do anything to make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u93	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u94	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, our constituencies. The report we heard about the child’s recovery sounds optimistic. But what we have today is a real question of protecting our childhood. I am now quite involved in the issue of the Law on the Children of War, and when I meet these people, you hear their enormous problems and what they have had to endure. But what children are experiencing today is what I think it will be for many generations to study. Today, about 140,000 is reported. children in Ukraine are homeless. At the same time, some of them don't even know their name or their name, but they're already using, like the jargon of theirs, the appropriate "clicks," and that at a time when there were no wars, there were no such great shocks, and there is today's power. Underage prostitution, underage drug abuse, juvenile banditry, and underage alcoholism flourish today. I'm terrified to think about what will happen in society when these children grow up, become adults, and that they will bring them into society, that they will be waiting for us, that they will be waiting for those who will live after us. Parents are exiled today, and wages are sought abroad. This is given from seven million to ten million. Children are thrown away on their own, and in this too is the guilt of power, which is not creating jobs, not allowing people to earn money here, they are forced to throw here most expensively without any care for their children, but to take care of the foreign. Perhaps a decision could be made not to let two parents go abroad to earn money if there are young children. One left, and someone else has to watch the kids. And let's think about that. During the civil war, when there was really a breakdown, there was death, and then there was the opportunity to take care of children. Let us remember even during wartime: rearing children in regiments, rearing them in military units. It's during the war. What about today? Militia units, tax stations, military units, prosecutors, for example, the left, paradise, schools, technicians, institutions -- and one child to be attached to these facilities -- and we wouldn't have these bums walking down the street today. So, of course, the report, as a report, has been reported that they have healed. If we have this attitude toward our children, the time will come for all our societies to be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u95	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u96	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Of course, we heard the report today. It's worth noting that it's still comparable to what was 10 years old, and today, the shift is in a positive direction. But if we compare today’s state of recovery with that of 1988, compared to the example 15 years ago, we are far behind in this direction. I'd like to do just a few remers about the children's rest. There's still a question: maybe there's a person in the state who's going to set himself a goal today -- to do an audit of the rest camps that were owned by former colleges, businesses that don't work anymore. The property of the farm is spoiled. Not the social sphere, but the camps. What's their fate now? For example, in the Chernobyl area, I could give a lot of examples of where they were shared, who is the host there today. What is done in the state at all? I'd like to address Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco on this matter. Please see if you can find the time, give the commission to the appropriate authorities. Let them do an audit and a memo so that you can have it on the table, you'll see what's going on in that direction. The same is true of the entire system of recreation of children, especially children. Village kids, let's talk like that. The following question. Do we not count those children who also rested, who went to school in the summer to help, or to help, or to help farmers there with their food? And we counted. It's still tens of thousands of kids. We're talking about the fact that they've been resting, that we've been giving them rest, that we've been healing them. But that is not the case. And the third. There is a children’s sanatorium in the Chernobyl region in the Novoseltsky region, where children are being treated for anemia. [[I've already spoken from the rostrum before in Parliament.]] Today, the country’s environmental situation tells us that children are shocked by this disease and that no one is reaching out to start work hard, as the sanatorium has always done. And thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of children can be cured in Ukraine in the Novoselicke region, in the Cherniewec region. It doesn't take much. Hundreds of thousands, let's say 300-400 thousand dollars and the sanatorium works. I think we need to do this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u98	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The fact that the Government of Viktor Yanukovich refers to the child’s recovery is evidenced by the fact that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is absent from the Hall in violation of the Government Day, and apparently he will not act at the end of this session with a closing word. We've seen how this government really dealt with financing the needs of children. How much insolence and insolence can be gained to invite Parliament to take away child support for child health, student education, child feeding, all of this was in the 2004 budget, and all of this has been corrected by you, honourable national deputies, although today there are only 27 people left in the Supreme Council Hall. Obviously, the same is true of the disrespect of the government. And where, why there is no Prime Minister and he doesn't have time. Imagine, then, the distinguished national MPs, our constituents, where the Prime Minister will have to sign 17 million greetings to the citizens of Ukraine on his birthday. At what cost? I'm showing them to you. Here we are, arriving at the Ivano-Frankow district of the Sneten region, reaching other areas in the same Johno-Frankow region, other areas. All of this, you see, is signed by Prime Minister Janukovic. This is how everyone is concerned about greetings with a birthday. Thus, what is said today about healing is also half the truth. Because the same Artek, the value of 2.5 thousand tickets, 2.5 thousand tickets. And only a thousand 500 people can be healed. At the commercial banks, they've got the money for what now? To then put a hole in the debt and then privatize it. Dear National Deputies! I have deep respect for Ms. Long, but please don't tell me that officials can't solve the issue of the development of normative documents, but they can only do so after the adoption of the Law on the Rest and Health of Children. And some MPs say, yes, that's the law you need. This law is totally unnecessary. This reminds me of the Milk and Milk Act, and then the breast - feeding of babies. Taxation is dealt with in other laws. And finally. Yesterday a shadow was cast on the entire Parliament of the Supreme Council, on his head Lithuania's senseless statement by the deputy head of the Security Service Drizzling about it. It's like they've been washed up in the Supreme Council. So this is the business of "Participation" that was eliminated on December 4th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you. Vernigora. Thank you. Okay. It's all your time. Vernigore, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Petrova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u100	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Of course, in those days, and Valentino Ivanovna, you would have made a report, perhaps starting with the sound of a humongous pioneer summer. Now you can also say that it's been a summer for which we can heal all the children and, unfortunately, as you said. But it's time to sum it up. Yet, the heat was burning, the rain would stop and the cold would come. That's the order of things. Yes. And if my colleague Vladimir Puzakov, as the first speaker, has called for votes for the faithful son of Ukraine, I propose and urge you to give your votes for the understanding, wise, caring father of Alexander Moroz, whose programs will not cure children for 15-18 days, because we have every other child sick, and they will be healthy all year long, all childhood will be healthy. So I want to call on you both to support Nikolainka and Melniczuk and Ivan Vasilovich Spódarenko and Šibka and Baranowski, which is, in fact, to vote for the loving father of all the children of Alexander Frost. The notorious Earth reform, which has destroyed the socio-economic fabric of our village, has hit children most painfully. You remember that there was no school, there was no farm in the village where this child was in the fresh air and was still resting, healed, and still earning some money for his school pants. Where are these health facilities shared today, and how do they account for the millions that you say Valentina Ivanovna? There are no preschool, out - of - school, out - of - school, out - of - doors, and other health - care facilities that have been called pioneer camps. So I told you that the pace with which we're supposedly increasing the recovery of children is a dutiful pace. I would also like to warn you that, sadly, the state has been less and less paying for recovery every year. Maybe this budget, which is going to be twice as big, you're going to give twice as much money. And today, there's no money. You just take into account all the school and extra - school compulsory work during the summer months. And it turns out that it's like we're healing the children. So I'd like you and I to think, why is the children's journey today approaching the luxury value of an adult sanatorium? You realize that these VATes, these tenders, these are all the fights that even divers take, even those mini-hunters, are all about the cost of travel. You understand how much we would cure children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Oleg Petrov, NDP faction and industrialists and entrepreneurs, the last to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. First of all, there are no differences on the part of the faction or on the political power. So kids today are really a category that doesn't need to be called on today, who's better, who's worse working today. Life is so interesting, it sets the dots, and we'll all figure out who's the best president, who's worse. In fact, the question that we are considering today is extremely important. Because however banal this may sound, children are our future, and healthy children are the healthy future of our country, the full pension provision of each of us. Thus, even these mercantile reasons, we must view the matter of recreation and the healing of children as a component of national security. However, the health situation of children is very dangerous, if not catastrophic. I'll give you an example that applies to my Sosnian constituency. Thus, 63.3 percent of children in the Sosnin region were admitted to the hospital last year. And these are typical of the other six districts in the district. Only 26.6 percent of children recovered during the year. Given that 82 percent of them were healed in local boarding camps and day - care camps, the unsatisfying state of rest and recovery of children is more than obvious. What kind of problems? The problem, however, is virtually not addressed by both the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, the proposed mechanisms, such as the introduction of questions to Government Day, the parliamentary approval of the relevant decision, the President's orders and the Cabinet of Ministers' decisions, did not produce a positive result. And the main thing is that children with disabilities, children of orphans, children without parental care, and those left without care, as well as other socially vulnerable categories. This is certainly the right thing to do. But it is only a small fraction of all children who can and need to be healed, including at the expense of their parents. In addition, according to the government, everything is not quite right here. None of the socio-invulnerable categories of children are even 90 percent cured. And only 12.6 percent of children with disabilities are cured. It is especially noteworthy that recently a very small proportion of children affected by the CHAES disaster are being healed. Here Valentina Ivanovna has already said, and according to article 49, and other legislative issues, we need to take this into account today. And especially consider the issue of VAT. The VAT on children’s travel and the purchases of State or local budgets do not need to be taken today, and we all understand that. And what happened this year, unfortunately, got very long on these issues. So I don't think it's economic, we need to settle this. I believe that the Supreme Council and the government in the 2005 State Budget should foresee a dramatic increase in the cost of recovery and treatment of children in order to increase the number of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Very simple, time is up. No, I'll ask you, if you talk in that tone, I won't give you anything. Don't dictate to me terms. Sit down, please. You people will come up and tell me. I want to say again, don't dictate terms to me. Who did you make the deal with? Please come forward, but I say again, don't take your stand until you've won. Let's be tolerant in the Supreme Council. I'm gonna ask you to come forward again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Igor Ostrash, the faction of Victor Yushchenko's block "Our Ukraine." We're here today not to sing difirambs to some presidential candidates, but we're here to actually assess the state of our children's recovery. I fully agree with Catherine Samuel, who really said that we did not take a step forward this year, but took a real step back in this matter, despite the actual efforts of Minister Long. Indeed, the government of Yanukovich has proposed a budget that has also led this step back. And I would like to tell Mrs. Catherine Samoylik that not only the communists voted for this budget, but "Our Ukraine" wasn't voted for by the BUT faction. And I totally agree with you here. Sadly, travel prices have increased so much that almost 30 percent of the children could be cured. But it couldn't be done. So far, some sanatoriums have been struggling to obtain VAT benefits. I'm going to give the minister a list of these sanitariums, because there's really a selective tax approach here, and you can't complete the recovery of some sanitariums. I would also like to say that it is important to consider that children should be placed in specialised sanitariums. For example, the Chernobylites need to be healed in Truscaveca, Morshin, where there are conditions for this, not in southern Ukraine. Sadly, there is another practice. I would also like to point out that there are really homeless children on board. And that's very serious. Finally, I would like to say that our children’s facilities are being privatized. We have an abnormal situation in the state where our oligarchs and our people, who are using the approach or the work of the President's Administration, are privatizing illegally in beautiful places: in Carpathians, in Crimea, in the reserved areas of the area where they build four or five floors for themselves. And at the same time, we have a really sad situation with children's health facilities. By the way, a healthy practice has already begun in Russia when a bulldozer falls into illegally built houses, houses, and huts. I think there's no need for this in Ukraine, and I think we need to take another step and we just have to give these houses to our children and I think it's going to be historical justice. I would like to say that we still have a chance, perhaps on the basis of today's Government Day, to propose a draft decision to partially remedy all these shortcomings that we've had this year as a result of the government's really weak policy of curing our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u105	There's no wetlands. Andrew School, please, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u106	I would like to agree with fellow speakers who described the truly frightening picture of the healing of children, their health, and the life of children with a huge number of homeless children. And homeless children are really a big threat to our country's future, and let's also think about it, who's going to cure them? In general, it seems that in recent years there has been a series of battles. Well, probably the result of these fighting actions of today's regime, of today's power against its own people, is that there are so many homeless. Because what other reasons might happen and what other reasons might drive so many children out to beg for help in the street? To believe that this is how they want to make a living is, to a lesser extent, cynical. And to think that the problems created during this huge period can be solved in one day, one moment, or some amendments to existing laws. Unfortunately, it's impossible. You can believe it, but it's going to be very difficult. Because at the moment both ministries and the rest of the services that are responsible for the child's recovery, they're putting out the fire, they're not solving the issues, they're just doing fire extinguishing in a different direction: and in the direction and privatization of children's health, and the privatization processes that touch the land, where these health clinics could be built in the future, because there are also certain climatic conditions that require the recovery of children with tuberculosis who are suffering from other respiratory diseases. And that's all, unfortunately, these countries, the best, now thoughtless, completely with the full knowledge of today's government, are privatized without being used further. So I'm going to stress that today's biggest problem with child health is that the state is doing this sporadicly, because at the state level, you can solve the problem once and for all, both homeless and sick children, but you have to want it. Unfortunately, for today's day, children are the last question in the list of essentials. The children do not vote, respectively, but the homeless do. They're not an electrifying field for those presidential candidates or any other candidate who might engage them. They're not even pensioners. They don't even have room in the election races of today's Prime Minister: no money, no other benefits or anything else. Because to do this is to do this from the "potomkin village" -- "Artec" -- well, that's very small. Believe me, Artek won't solve any problems. It is good that he is, but he will not solve any problems. It will resolve the constant, orderly, systematic recovery of children and government programs on this subject. So I hope that, really, you have to do something to at least take away the fire of this fire, this danger. And that's why I think the Supreme Council and our faction will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, all who signed up at the right time and even later, were given the opportunity to speak. So we have every reason to sum it up. Maybe Valentina Ivanovna, you'll be impressed? Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The government will take into account all your critical comments and business specific suggestions in order to increase the number of children who will be cured next year and significantly improve their quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-12-m0.u109	Let's get this over with. Dear colleagues, we have considered an extremely painful question. Since this applies directly to us, we all have children or grandchildren, especially today and the major future of Ukraine: what our children will grow up to be, what will be their physical health and, above all, what is important, moral. And whether we will have a future, whether we will have young children, children who should take on what the Ukrainian people are doing today, which we are all doing to continue on a qualitatively new level in the near future. I think we need to be objective, and that means that we have to say what we're doing, and I think the positive that we have, is our joint work, it's a common result, and at the same time the disadvantages that we have, it's our joint failure. And we're obviously talking about it. This is something that needs to be addressed especially now when the budget is being established and adopted for the next year. It must be said that last year, Valentina Ivanovna, the budget was adopted more than ever at the proper time. But the fact that we haven't managed together to get a more or less decent number on the recovery of children is, I think, minus both the Supreme Council and the government. I think we could find reserves if we wanted, and we have to do it for the next year. As for the person who voted or did not vote in favour of the budget, we need to create such a budget together so that everyone, with a sense of responsibility for the budget, can vote. This is an abnormal phenomenon when everyone gives up the budget that the country needs. But we need to count and make statistics for ourselves at least once to show what the country needs in order for it to develop. And then we figure out what the real possibilities are. And start getting closer to our positions. And get to a more or less acceptable number. Ukraine needs a budget, not a budget for survival, not for grayness, but a growth budget. I'm sure we have good reasons for that, because the economy is growing, as statistics show. This needs to be translated into a specific article of the budget, first and foremost, into articles related to the present and the future of Ukraine. At the same time, I would ask our committees, and the relevant structures of the government, to work out a draft of the 2005 Children's Health Regulation, so that we can accept it as quickly as possible, not when the healing process needs to be implemented, and so that we can establish those indicators, those positions that really reflect our Ukrainian needs. I thank you for participating in Government Day. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 19th. It's all your time. Thanks for the job.
