ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:31]] Registered -440 There were 440 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Slabenko Sergija Ivanovic, into the House of Deputies. Dear colleagues, the list of issues to be considered, you have today. Let us go to their consideration. It's being announced for consideration -- draft decrees for changes in the composition of the Court of Auditors. The Committee proposes such rules of procedure for the consideration of the matter. A three-minute report by the Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Burjak Sergio Vasilovich, answers to the questions to the candidates proposed for appointment as members of the Court of Auditors. Three minutes each. Is there no objection? Here, the candidates are at the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Valentin Simonenko. Let's move on to the question. Please. Out of place, sit down, report. Dear colleagues, the head of the Committee of Volodymyr Stretovic requires three minutes for information. I explained to Vladimir Stretovich that this was not provided for by the Rules. He said he would block the rostrum, and I said that tomorrow any MP could also block the rostrum because he has something to say to the electorate and the Ukrainian people. May I have your attention, please? So I'm going to put it to a vote: who's in charge of giving Stretovich three minutes, please? Let the Supreme Council determine. [[10:06:56]] For-153 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Persuade the MPs. Please, Sergey Burjak. Turn on Sergei Burjak. Well, I offered it to the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council has not been determined. What can I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine includes consideration of the appointment and dismissal of heads and other members of the Court of Auditors. The Supreme Council of Ukraine shall, when considering the matter, take appropriate decisions on candidates who are released or appointed. On the basis of the requirements of part six of article 10 of the bill "On the Court of Auditors", the first deputy and deputy head, the chief controllers and secretary of the Court of Auditors are appointed to the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors. The head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the requirements of articles 11, 37, 8, and 10 of the Law of Ukraine on the Accounting Chamber of Proposals for the release and appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 15 June this year considered the submission of the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonek Valentino Konstantinović, on the release of the members of the Court of Auditors, as well as the relevant draft decrees of the Supreme Council, which were submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine by Burjak Sergey Vasilovich and others. They refer, first, to the release of Malikov Valerija Vasilovich, the first deputy head of the House of Accounts and Nemirovski Volodymyr Lukić, the chief controller of the Court of Auditors, in connection with the end of the term of office. The release of the Chief Controller of the House of Accounts, Tahtay Vladimir Epifanovich, at his own request. The Committee also considered the submission of the head of the Court of Auditors as part of the nominations for appointment by the members of the Court of Auditors. They relate, firstly, to the appointment of First Vladimir Leonidovich as First Deputy Head of the Accounts Chamber, secondly to the appointment of Unknown Vasil Ivanovich as Chief Controller of the Accounts Chamber, thirdly to Ivanenko Yuri Viktorovich as Chief Controller of the Accounts Chamber for the second term, the appointment of Shulezhko Maria Jakwan as Chief Controller of the Accounts Chamber. During the discussion of the matter, the head of the Court of Auditors noted the high professional level of each of his proposed nominations for appointment as members of the Court of Auditors. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine four draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the release of the members of the Court of Auditors, the release of the Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors, and the appointment of the Chief Supervisors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u3	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u4	About the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u5	Yes, I thank you, too. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to exchange your thoughts before we go to the candidates' questions, please sign in, we'll exchange our thoughts for five minutes. Please sign up. Put the name of the people’s deputies on the sign. Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Vladimir Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u7	Vladimir Stretovic, please. Turn on Vladimir Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished MP Corps! One minute to express the situation that occurred yesterday on the committee when representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, arrived at the invitation of the committee, but was ignored by the Attorney General, of course, not enough. But in Parliamentary, one way to protect democracy is to make it public. So I demanded a statement from the rostrum to report that the U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev was on the path of the crime envisaged by the 351 article of the Criminal Code, namely, the obstruction of the normal activity of committees, the lack of information, the lack of information, and, moreover, the direction given to all his deputies to ignore the legal requirements of committees. I will not go into a personal relationship with Deputy Vasilyev, but I authoritatively claim that there is enough information on the committee that his relatives, his assistants, are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u9	Turn on the microphone to finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u10	and, thus, today, there is a situation in the state that the Attorney-General first violates Ukrainian legislation and creates a de facto impunity for prosecutors of other levels. The committee provides information on how responsible prosecutors use family connections to cover the head of the Radomisl district administration of the Gitomir district. Prosecutor. The province of Rowen sends people to Kiev to their daughter to intimidate the daughter who is studying here so that the father will stop writing complaints to the appropriate authorities. And all this creates the Attorney General's Office, not as a law enforcement authority, but as a dictatorial autocrat organ of this system. In view of the fact that the Attorney General violated the requirements of article 10 of the Ukrainian Committees Act, article 25 of the Law on Organised Crime, and yesterday did not inform the Committee about the situation with the use of non-verbal means of withdrawing information, in other words, by listening in Ukraine, I propose that I begin the procedure for recalling the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Microphone, please. Conovaluk, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u12	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make a few words about the defense of the Attorney General, who is now really demonstrating the strengthening of the rule of law in the state, and that is probably what's causing some surprise and opposition. Secondly, I want to say that we are familiar with the presentation of all candidates for the replacement of posts in the Court of Auditors, and the House of Auditors is really the controlling body of the Supreme Council. We must be interested in making this body work most effectively. I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, suggest that we move on to regulatory procedures on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u13	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u14	Please hand over Simonek to Peter Mikolaiovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u15	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. The Bandur is getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, looking at the agenda of its meeting this morning and the draft issues to be considered, echoes the concern that the draft changes to the budget, which is only distributed to the national deputies, are now being discussed and voted on. There are a lot of projects that are counted or not on behalf of the national MPs. The problem of deficit growth and much more needs to be taken seriously today. So a faction of communists asks, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, yet it is possible to study these proposals that are prepared for consideration and not to look again in the urgent order, because this concerns budgetary problems and this is the basic economic law of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u17	Alexander Markovich Bandurka, faction. Democrat Initiatives and People's Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u18	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Democratic Initiatives and the People's Authority MPs insist on strict compliance with the Rules, on the implementation of the agenda and agenda that we have scheduled for the end of the session. And we support the approval of the members of the Court of Auditors as an institution for parliamentary financial control. I propose to return to the order of the day and to the approval procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We had an exchange of thoughts, so let's now move on to work in line with the Rules of Procedure on the appointment and release of the members of the Court of Auditors. I invite you to the rostrum of Vladimir Leonidovich, the first deputy head of the House of Auditors. Please sign up for the First. Three minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. The first question will be the question of Eugene Gorenik. Please. Eugene Gorenik's microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, please, your honors. You've got all the papers on the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u20	Your Honor! You're now in a fairly responsible position in the Ministry of Economics, you have the opportunity to implement your practical experience and ambitions in the executive structure, and then all of a sudden, this transition to a control structure. Explaining, please, what has caused such changes in career growth?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u21	I thank you for asking. I'll tell you honestly, I didn't get any pressure. I was offered this position, if I saw it, I wrote in my autobiography that I had done a good job, and I think I was doing a good job in matters of government control, including in the Ukrainian Audit Service. That's all that's marked up. But there is absolutely no pressure, no other circumstances. I just thank the head of the Accounting Chamber for his offer and for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u22	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Leonidovich, I know you as a very high-level expert who actually worked in the Ministry of Economics. How do you think the experience that you've gotten from the fact that the problem for us right now is that in the state budget calculations we have inequitable macroeconomic indicators at the level of the House of Auditors as you plan to do this work so that we have really balanced performance indicators for the State Budget project. And the second question. As you can see in the mandates of the Court of Auditors, there is a question that really relates to the use of budget funds. Budget costs depend directly on budget requests and budget programmes. How good are they in your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u25	Thank you. I think there are really problems with the accuracy of macro indicators. I think that even the experts of the Court of Auditors in the evaluation, before checking the use of budgetary resources, would also be useful to enable them to look at these calculations that were put into the State Budget project. And about your experience. I am very grateful that you have appreciated my experience so much. I think I'm going to do as much as I do in the Ministry of Economics, which I'm grateful for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u26	Andrew Polit, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u27	Andrei Polit, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Ponmarenko Georgi Grigorjevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u28	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u29	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Leonidovich, I know you as a highly qualified expert. You worked at the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers. And I understand that at the time you thought that the House of Accounts should not be allowed to control the income part of the budget. As you think now, you need this, these functions need to be monitored by the Accounting Chamber for the income part of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u30	I think because you made a decision yesterday on the establishment of the regional structures of the Court of Auditors, it is only natural that there is a question about the assessment of the income part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich. Have a seat, please. Sheulezko Maria Yakovna is a candidate for the post of chief supervisor. Please go to the rostrum. Sign up, your honors, for a question. Yuri Carmazin, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u32	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask your opinion that today, you may have studied the draft Law amending the State Budget Act on how the government hid some 15 billion dollars first, including privatization, I repeat, and now it's throwing out half, 7.5 billion. What action should you have as a member of the superior control body on behalf of Parliament? And in general, why is there not yet any statement made by the Court of Auditors in Ukraine. I'm just surprised. Yesterday, I see, they report victoriously, and "Our Ukraine" has long demanded the return of the 10 billion that have been hidden. Please make up your mind. I realize that the question is difficult, but I need to be determined in this life.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. The question is really complicated, but it once again highlights today's insistence that the Court of Auditors should be given control over both the income part of the budget and the expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u34	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u35	Thank you. I'd like to offer you this question. Today, we will consider Bill 4340 on licensing for fumigation activities, that is, defamation of secondary quarantine materials and objects. And I'm sure the Supreme Council will vote in favour of it in a hundred percent. For several days a similar Bill 3366 was considered on licensing activities in the geological exploration sector, primarily using beneficial fossils. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine almost completely failed the bill, except for the faction of the Communists. Tell me, from your point of view, what is the difference between certain factions and the principles of licensing for different types of agricultural activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u36	The Supreme Council is a higher legislature. And the right of each faction to determine how it supports one law or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u37	And Bauer Michaelo, the Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u38	Trudova Krajina faction, Chernovets region, 204 constituency, Mikhailo Bauer. Dear Mary James, you are an economist by trade, you have been an economist for a long time. I know the functions of the Chambers of Auditors. Please tell me if your functions as an economic education auditor are being adjusted, and do you already know these functions? First question. And the second question. Does the Court of Auditors have a bearing on agriculture, controlling its activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u39	The Court of Auditors monitors the state budget’s expenditure. And since much of this expenditure is aimed at supporting the agrarian and industrial complex, one direction of control is to control spending on the APC.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u40	Yes, I thank you, time is up, please sit down, Mary Jacobna. He is invited to the rostrum of Unknown Vasil Ivanovich, a candidate for the post of Chief Controller. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question of Unknown Vassil Ivanovich. Yes, Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. That's enough. Igor Ostasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u41	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u42	Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine. Sobolev, the faction of Victor Yushchenk's block "Our Ukraine." Mr. President, please tell us how the House of Auditors and the body you claim to be in office at this time will respond to the confirmation that the government of Yanukovich has stolen 10 billion from the people of Ukraine during the assassination of the parliamentary majority. Is it money? Today, the government of Yanukovich has confirmed this, but it has found only seven billion. How will you personally respond as a member of the Court of Auditors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u43	In the event that such facts come to us, we will carry out a test in accordance with the requirements of the bill on the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u44	Mikhailo Rodionov, the Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u45	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give the word to your comrade after the faction of Eshchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u46	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. I have a question for the next act. In Chercas, you probably know from the media, Trolleybusters were on strike because they didn't find the budget for the City Council to pay their wages and compensation for carrying out the benefits of our passengers in Cherkasa on the Trolleybus. Now they're covering the street downtown for illegally building gas stations in Chercassa. But the question I have is, would it be possible to create regional offices of the Court of Auditors, nevertheless, to strengthen control over the use of funds at the local level?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Of course it will, because we are now forced to spend quite a lot of time sailing to check in places. And the creation of regional units will make this easier. And I think they're going to be an effective tool for such tests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u48	Mikhail Sithina, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u49	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u50	Peanut, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u51	Please tell me that the problem of creating your offices or representations in the regions is being actively discussed. How do you feel about this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u52	My attitude is positive. I answered the previous question that this is the tool that we need right now, because we can't always have enough of those workers, for example, I only have 20 employees, go to the region and do a deep, serious check. So we usually have a week to schedule. And in a week, you can see for yourself, it's quite difficult to figure out all the details of a particular subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Sit down, time's up. Ivanenko Yuri Viktorovich is invited to the rostrum. He's a candidate for the Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors. Please sign up for the questions. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u54	Dear pretender, before me colleague Sobolev asked questions about the actions of the Court of Auditors regarding the hidden and now seemingly gifted people ten billion dollars by the government of Yanukovic. Well, the answer is that within the framework of the bill of accounting, it's not entirely satisfactory. But you have other issues: both the prosecutor's office and public relations, things like that. Are you going to act more broadly within your authority and beyond your authority? And the second question. There is a law on the territorial representations of the Court of Auditors. How do you imagine the Court of Auditors' mandate to control local budgets, government funds in local budgets, is meant to mean subsidies, subsidies and subsidies, and so on - and the local budgets themselves, where is the mass of abuse now?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. On the first question. The Court of Auditors, at the stage of conducting an expert study on the 2004 draft State Budget, made its proposals to the Supreme Council as well. Some of them -- in terms of increasing the yield -- were counted, and a lot of them weren't. So we've already predicted that there's going to be a substantial increase in revenue to the State budget, and it's now being confirmed. With regard to the second issue concerning the regional offices of the Court of Auditors. In fact, at this point, their main task is to help out in places, to quickly do background checks, but in the future, the main task of the regional offices is to monitor local budgets. Regrettably, the Court of Auditors does not yet have such powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u56	Yes, Vladimir Yeshchenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u57	Fucking Communist faction. Please pass the word to Michael Kuzmich Rodion, our comrade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u58	Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u59	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Your Honor, you have a very responsible position. Please tell me that you can control the activities of government or government structures regarding, for example, the fact that education is written about by professionals. They were taking care of the Supreme Council on June 15th, and they say, "Most of our students are starving, because in spite of the Government's Education Act, they don't eat them. The salaries of teachers in terms of keeping orphans and disabled people out of poverty and not paying attention to it. from the government. Since 1997, the full amount of payments provided for in the article has not been paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. I would answer within the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors, especially with regard to article 57. The point is that the Court of Auditors has been asking questions for several years about the reality of Ukraine's sovereign debt, including the inclusion of guaranteed and constitutionally guaranteed payments. This also applies to the undervalued savings of citizens and, in particular, the accrued but not actually paid for these social benefits. And, literally, you've recently adopted this law on the first reading of government debt and State guarantees on the payment of all of these bills, but actually not paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u61	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u62	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear speaker! Please tell us all that President Leonid Kuchma, on his third term, bought the right to be the only candidate of power in the Daughter Clan, giving the blood-thirsty metalworking combination to the Dozen Clan. And of course, he's now given the Janukovich government team to face up to the opposition and bring 7 billion into the session hall, so to speak, for social expenses from the budget. Please tell me, don't you see in this crime that artificially delayed the use of government funds, delayed these funds in treasury accounts, and gathered only for the election campaign, and the people who needed these funds, the socially defenseless levels, couldn't get them?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u63	I can't give a legal assessment of the fact itself, it's not within the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors, it's the financial side of the matter: the costs, they just came into the Treasury. So they're going to be the object of control of the Court of Auditors, their purpose, their purpose, and so on, a little bit later, so after the first half of the year, we're going to look at it and look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u64	Please sit down for a while. Dear colleagues! You've seen applicants, more specifically candidates. But before we can agree on a secret ballot, we need to release a number of people. May I have your attention, please? Please take Order 5647, Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of the members of the Court of Auditors. "In accordance with article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release the members of the Court of Auditors in connection with the conclusion of the term of office: Malikova Valerija Vasilovich, First Deputy Head of the Court of Auditors; Nemirovski Vladimir Lukić, Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors." I'm voting on the Bill of Order that I just made, registration number 5647. Please vote. [[10:38:16]] For 405 Dear colleagues, now Decree 5648, please listen to her. "The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of the Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Tahtay Vladimir Epifanovich from the responsibilities of the Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors at his own request. ” As for the first draft of the decree, we voted as Decree 405 votes, that is, the decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of the 5648 Bill I just made. Please vote. [[10:39:12]] For 411 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Act on the Court of Auditors, the First Deputy and Deputy Head, the Chief Supervisors and Registrar of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors by secret ballot for a term of 7 years in order to appoint the head of the Court of Auditors. And the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors is carried out by secret balloting by means of ballot papers. In this regard, I ask the head of the Counting Commission, Valery Mishur, to speak. Please listen carefully to the order in which the voting is organized.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request that we determine the order of voting that we would like to report later on, members of the Counting Commission gather in the third floor towers on this side. I want to remind you once again who we have as members of the Counting Commission, because we rarely vote that some forget. These are the distinguished national deputies of Kafarsky, Fomenko, Assadchev, Hinzburg, Grzezhev, Ivanov, Kalichenko, Carmazin, Kostinuk, Mother, Manchulenko, Mirimsky, Nadraga, Ryabikin, Ryabik, Sitnik, Sobolev, Chronovil, Chickanov, and Shevchuk. Request for a member of the Counting Commission to meet in the third floor towers in 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u66	And the vote will take place at 14. Dear colleagues, there will be a meeting of the Counting Commission, the Counting Commission will determine when we vote, and the head of the Counting Commission will inform us. Do you have a deal? Dear colleagues, the draft Order on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Fix as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council is under review. There have been a number of collegiates here, and I'd like to ask the committee's head to inform. Please, Valentin Grigorovich. And while Valentin Grigorovitch is approaching the rostrum, the Turk's microphone is out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We, in the Supreme Council, have the practice of only putting a question to the vote after we have considered the committee. I would like to remind you that our faction has repeatedly demanded that we put to the vote the question of a moratorium on evicting citizens from their apartments. A moratorium on increased municipal payments. But we were constantly told that we couldn't do it until the committee decided. Why are we now asking questions about the inclusion of a member in a committee or a committee without a decision by the Committee? We have no objection to any names that will now be called. But when we have a procedure, let us follow it to all regulations and to all legislative acts. Thank you. So I'm going to ask you to remove this question until there's a committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u68	Please, Valentin Grigorovich, you'll explain, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, yes, indeed, as a Turkish colleague pointed out yesterday, the matter was not considered by the committee in particular in view of the fact that it had been excluded from the agenda of the committee by six votes to five, from the agenda of the committee. For the information of my fellow Members, I just want to say that after leaving the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of Pesocki, who, on 15 May last year, composed his parliamentary powers. The amount of the MPF in our committee has not been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u70	What's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u71	It's the Supreme Council's right to determine. The committee did not consider this question yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues. Stepan Cloud, microphone, please. Not all at once. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor. Yesterday, the Regulatory Committee did not exclude the matter, but it did. In order to give the opportunity to a member, there is a specificity of the work of the Regulatory Committee in order to become acquainted with the Rules, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Committee Act, and thus we are ready to make a positive decision, but it is necessary to give some time for the MP to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u74	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Ilkovich, there's something I'd like to disagree with. It's not exactly what you said. The draft agenda is proposed in accordance with the Committee’s Chairmanship Act. I was asked to consider two questions yesterday at a committee meeting: regarding the election of members of the respective committees of the National Deputies of Fix and Chichkov, but after insistence and the results of the vote, these questions were excluded from the draft agenda of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u75	Valerius Assadchev, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u76	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm with you, I'm not with the reporter. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to see you! I want to remind you, when the question was, well, can we please not interfere with the head of the Supreme Council?Oh, my God! Do you have a private dialogue? Come on. Sergey, let the Head speak. I want to remind you when we were here asking questions about the accomplices, remember? You said I wouldn't put it to a vote until the Rules Committee was reviewed, and you didn't. Well, we agreed, okay. But then let's not do double standards. If the committee is to consider it, it should consider it, and only then vote. Because this is what happens to us: The co-conspirators are necessarily the committee, and on the other hand, it is not necessarily the committee. These are double standards. And I'm talking to you, so let's just be standard-setting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u77	I want to tell Valery Assadchev that don't pull anything you can't pull. These two differences are big, read the terms you need, I'll take the Rules and read them, please. Everything? Well, now, dear fellows, we have a colossal here. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'm going to put it to a vote, who's in charge of considering the election of the National Deputies of Fix and Uncle's members of the respective committees. Calm down! Who's in charge of considering the election of Fix and Uncle's deputies to the respective committees? [[10:47:31]] For 227 Decision taken. And now, fellow Members, I am reading to you Rules 1.3: "If the Chief Commission does not, within a specified time limit, draw conclusions on the relevance of the adoption of the bill and its inclusion in the agenda of the session, the Supreme Council shall, within a 15-day period following a written request from the initiator for the introduction of the instrument, the legislative initiative, examine the matter in plenary session and take the appropriate decision." To your knowledge, I'm saying that the corresponding letters from Fix were the first number of this month and the second number from Chichkova. So there are no violations. Now, dear fellows, I am voting on each decision separately. I am voting on draft decree 5577, draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Fix as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the Rules, the MP's ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:48:49]] For 247 Decision taken. I put to the vote a draft decree, registration number 5588 on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Unclekov as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. Please vote. [[10:49:19]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, well, a man needs to work on a committee! Let's figure it out. I once again put to the vote the draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian National MP, Chickanova, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, I stress: from social policy issues and work where there are not so many people who want to work. Please vote. Draft No. 5588.- [[10:50:03]] For 242 Decision taken. A draft decree on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced for consideration. Registration number 5590. Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft decision on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, prior to the Committee's decision on 19 May this year, the draft calendar plan was sent to all MP factions and groups in the Supreme Council. No comments were received on the proposed draft calendar plan for the next, sixth session. He was also supported by the Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies and Groups of Last Monday, June 14. What is proposed by the draft calendar plan specifically? In accordance with the requirements of article 83 of the Constitution, Ukraine will begin the plenary sessions of the sixth session of the Supreme Council on September 7th this year and complete its work on January 14th next year. During this time, there are 10 weeks in plenary, 35 days, 5 weeks in committee and factions, and 4 weeks in line with the requirements of the current Supreme Council Rules, for the work of national deputies in the constituencies. [[25 days]] During this time, five days of government are scheduled. Please support the decision on the draft calendar plan for the 6th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the calendar of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Registration number 5590. Please vote. [[10:53:15]] For 406 Decision taken. The Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fourth Assembly is announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, we are proposing a document that has received absolute support on the committee and all of the members of our committee who represent various parliamentary groups and factions and most of the opposition have signed it and supported it. What changes are foreseen in the traditional enlightenment of the Supreme Council? It's important for us now to be more active in informing the work and committees, and we have the opportunity to make video recordings in the fall and on the parliamentary channel to provide information on what is going on on the committee, what the committee is doing, to make thematic programs on the very specific people's deputies in the context of the construction of the parliamentary channel. This is a new approach or, let's say, a new one that we didn't make before. In order to unlock the situation with the National Television Company, we've made a number of compromises to inform the National Television Company about the activities of the Supreme Council, we've taken off the clock, it's the right of the National Television to do it when it's posting the journal of the Supreme Council session, and when it's posting the discussion program that we're proposing to do on Saturdays, as it was, remember, in previous sessions. Everything else that we have today works, the National Radio Company with direct air and discussion, the vote of Ukraine, and the placement of it where and with other television and radio organizations, everything remains in effect. And I'm convinced that this debate that's going on at the Supreme Council session, frankly, is that the Supreme Council can report to the leadership of a state that still has freedom of speech in Ukraine, because here you can hear the positions of various political forces, and that you can hear it directly on the radio, broadcast it. And this little area where public problems are being discussed openly and on a live basis, I think it's a merit and a country in general, and you can talk about it, and you can expand it. You know, in recent times, some politicians and the media have said that it's possible to restrict and ban direct broadcasts because MPs have a low legal and political culture, and I think those people probably wouldn't want our citizens to hear about the real situation in the country. I mean, I think that in the people's deputies, the level of legal and political culture is consistent with their status and the position of the citizens who chose them. So, I think if we support this document, the position of the Supreme Council in general, the position of the MPs, factions and committees will be fully represented in our society. And despite the fact that on many national channels from the Supreme Council they're making a scarecrow, in these media that we're setting up here, I think it's going to be enough to convey the true information about what's going on in the Supreme Council and what decisions are being approved here. The Committee in its entirety requests that the document be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the Committee's position on your reputation has been proven. Because there is no reason to vote. Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Order of Enlightenment of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Call", registration number 5603. Please vote. Please vote not to say why the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not highlighted. Please vote. [[10:57:34]] For 221 Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to explain the work of the Supreme Council and I would ask you not to take instructions from outside here and not to shout, "We don't vote." Allow MPs to identify themselves. I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the Order of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5603. Please vote. [[10:58:14]] For 263 Decision taken. I ask my fellow Members not to demonstrate how you loyally follow your instructions. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Initiatives, People's Government" - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" - 9; NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trudova Ukraine" - 14; "Centre" - 12; Non-fractional - 11. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us understand what our internal issues are that we can and should do, and we will do just as the Supreme Council of Ukraine feels. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004. [[harmonized project]] Now, one minute, dear colleagues, I'm going to tell you what the rules of procedure are, and then you're going to complete them. The Committee on Budgets proposes such a rule for consideration. Well, I'll suggest we exchange our thoughts now. Well, one minute. It is proposed to consider this order: a report by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Finance Minister of Ukraine Azarov Mikli Janović for up to 20 minutes; answers to questions within 20 minutes; a report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget issues of Prashenko Petr Aleksiowiovich for 15 and 15 minutes, respectively, because it is a report; statements by the deputy factions and groups and committees of the Supreme Council for up to 3 minutes, i.e. some more than two minutes. One minute now, because a statement has come out, honourable colleagues, about to announce a recess, which means from the factions of "Our Ukraine," BUT, which means that we are going back to the collapse of Parliament, I would ask Viktor Mikhailovich to base his position on not taking a break. Now we'll exchange our thoughts, we'll write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u82	Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear National Deputies, six months from this rostrum, the faction "Our Ukraine" has claimed that the 2004 budget had been falsified. It's about underestimating his income. Regrettably, some of the national deputies did not respond to our calls to consider the matter and not to allow the debasing of the budget. Today we can confirm the facts of the attempted budget. You've received a document today that increases the cost of the State budget by almost eight billion dollars. We've been talking about this for six months. Regrettably, the spirit and courage of most national MPs are lacking in showing basic human morality in relation to Ukrainian doctors, teachers, military, and pensioners. Since Law 5334, which we've been talking about for six months, is also related to the budget, the faction "Our Ukraine" insists that this bill be considered simultaneously with the government's draft amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2004." Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's a moral issue, not an economy. We demand that these two laws be discussed together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking for the faction "Our Ukraine." Now I want to make a proposal. Valery Assadchev, please, I know you have a nice voice, but listen, please. Let's do it this way, dear colleagues. But if we are calm, we will consider this subject carefully, not block it, not break it. Let's get this out of the way. Well, we included what you're saying, that you've made that point. To be done in such a way that there will be a report by the Minister of Finance, the First Vice Prime Minister, of the report by the committee head. And let Victor Pinzenik make a joint statement on this question. Five minutes to report will be enough? And then we'll discuss these issues together. Shall we talk about it together? I'd like you, my dear colleagues, not to ruin the timetable for the main issue. If it's not five, let's do seven. Ten? Let's do ten. Let's take a look at it. This is the order for consideration of the issue: we are considering two bills, the first, and the second, with such regulations, the report of the First Vice-Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of the Ukraine of Azarova - 20 minutes, and the answer to a question - 20 minutes. [[Calm down, please!]] Victor Pinzenik’s interview — 10 minutes, five minutes to question. Then comes the head of the Budget Committee, 15 minutes and 15 minutes, and then for an hour we're discussing these two bills. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u84	Thank you. All of it! From the motives of three minutes, please sign in from the procedure, more precisely. Yes, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u85	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I think the offer of the Chief of the Supreme Council is absolutely fair. I think the demands made by the faction "Our Ukraine" are actually met. And I think that's why the discussion should take place behind this scenario. In fact, two bills are possible, since neither the bill of government nor the bill of MPs has been included in the agenda, one decision to put these bills in the agenda and approve such regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u86	Well, that's not short-circuited. You've heard of time, dear fellows. Well, that's wrong. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Once again, we have what we are constantly protesting in a procedural way. Today we're looking at this bill, and we got it when we register. When, then, can we learn whether our comments and adjustments have been taken into account so that we can vote consciously for it? Similarly, our faction failed to resolve the matter fully. So I would like to ask you, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, to make this happen one last time and for today, perhaps we will have some problems and difficulties in voting. Once the reports are in place and the discussions are under way, we will have some further questions. I would like to ask with understanding all my colleagues, and you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and the officials, to deal with the difficulties that have arisen before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u88	Yes, the Wheeler, the Group of Democratic Initiatives and the People's Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u89	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Bandurko Alexandro Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u90	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The budget is talking about increasing pensions, increasing minimum wage, increasing scholarships. So actually, the changes in the budget change law affect all of our population. Today we see an attempt to tear, forget, talk about the process of making changes. I think you'll be ashamed of those who are about to break the procedure for adopting these changes. Once again, on behalf of democratic initiatives and the peoples of the world, I propose that the budget be reviewed on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the word is Kozlowski, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party, the last speaker. Is it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u92	Kozlowski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, Mikolayevščina I also support the proposal that the government is actually increasing agricultural spending as much as one billion 300 million. So I propose, really, to get to work, not to rape and tear this job apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u93	Yes, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov, has the floor for the report. Please, Mikola Janovich, in 20 minutes, and then there will be questions. Next is Pinzenic, and we have to get ready. I ask the heads of MPs and factions to apply for statements from factions at the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on Change and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2004 is proposed. As you certainly know, when the 2004 State Budget was approved, the so-called conservative figure was chosen for the calculation of the figures, I would add an economically balanced GDP increase of 4.8 percent. This approach helped to avoid fiscal risks in the year of tax reform. Since the beginning of 2004, there has been a steady increase in economic growth. The real GDP growth in January-May was already 11.3 percent relative to the corresponding period of the previous year, which is a record score for Ukraine's years of independence. So the macroeconomic situation is that GDP growth in 2004 is expected to be 9.5 percent. This gives us reason to increase resource performance and to ensure that priority social expenditure is implemented. Lately, the government has been criticized for its so - called hidden income. I want to remind you of some economic postulates. First, when the economy grows, not all taxes increase adequately, because some payments do not depend on the price of goods, the volume of production, the amount of income, but, for example, are measured in terms of production, the volume of the engine, the area of the objects of taxation. And that's up to 30 percent. Secondly, when taxes are reduced in the first year of tax reform, the weight of these revenues is necessarily decreasing, although the nominal value remains at the same level. Another aspect. It is vital that we take the basis for comparison. For example. In 2003, 500 million dollars were included in the budget's income as a one-off payment to the Bank of Ukraine. Four. In 2004, we made a full repayment of outstanding VAT payments through the release of GDP into the sum of about 2 billion dollars. Even in these positions it was necessary to adjust the base by 10 billion dollars, or 3 percent to the side of the decrease. Next. It has to be borne in mind that not all the suspensions from the expansion of the base have worked. And one more thing. Taking into account the feasibility of supporting economic risks is an essential element in international budget planning. A further increase in external prices, such as energy, which has already been affected by the dynamics of domestic producer prices and can lead to an increase in economic losses, and thus to a decrease in the corporate tax base. I want to point out that in the current year, exports of goods are increasing at a record rate. During the 5 - month period, the growth rate has already been more than 50 percent relative to the corresponding period of the previous year. As a result, in 2004, the structure of GDP increases the value added generated by export-oriented activities and thus increases the negative component of the VAT tax base. I mean, in terms of pre-primary export growth, there's a decline in VAT revenues. Thus, while considering an increase in the tax revenue plan, increased compensation from the export budget should be taken into account. As for the growth rate of nominal GDP, we see, where the state makes investments in specific areas through the granting of benefits and preferences, there is a corresponding increase in financial results, but we need to understand that these sectors do not adequately invest in government development. So, respectable ones, you have to do tax-to-tax-to-tax-to-tax-to-sales-to-sales-to-tax-to-sales-to-tax-to-sales-to-sales-to-sales-to-sales-to-sale. In such circumstances, the budget’s income is increasing. In five months of the current year, compared to last year’s revenue, the State budget increased by 3.6 billion dollars. The government budget’s revenue projections have been overturned in a number of positions. What kind of hiding can be discussed? If the treasury budget system is fully transparent, it will cover the entire country’s budget system as of this year. In view of the large number of proposals made by the deputy corps, a working group was set up to draft the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's 2004 State Budget, which consisted of national deputies, scientists and government representatives. This group, taking into account the real state of the economy and changes in predictive macro-indicators, has developed: budget increases, social priorities. On the slide, you can see how budget resources, general and special funds are increasing. I won't spend much time changing the income part of the budget in the tax cuts. You can see it in more detail on the monitor. In addition, additional revenues from the privatization of government property worth 3 billion dollars will allow for increased funding of the State budget. Privatization is a mutually compensatory source that is methodologically charged in the finance section, thereby increasing the deficit from 3.4 billion dollars to 7.2 billion dollars, which is within 2 percent of GDP, corresponds to the criteria of the Austrian Treaty and does not lead to an increase in tax burden. How is it proposed to use the budget resources indicated? Over 70 percent will be directed towards social protection, education, health, culture, and physical development, as you can see on the slide. According to the government's work programme, we're approaching the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 grevens with an active ratio of pay from September 1st, which has further increased the expenditure by 1.1 billion grevens. This will allow for an additional 15 percent increase in salaries, a 15 - percent increase in salaries for budget workers. We're radically increasing the cost of education. [[You see that on the slide.]] In particular, I would like to stop at the restoration of utility benefits as defined in article 57 on. We're pointing at about 160 billion greaves. I will take a closer look at the answer to that question. For the first time, it has been possible to significantly increase the costs of science in order to preserve cultural heritage and to improve the conditions of creative activity to 675 million bracelets will increase the financing of culture and the media. The most radical changes in the health field. In the area of health care, the government is directing its efforts to take measures to prevent diseases, improve the quality and accessibility of health care. More than a third to 570 million bracelets will increase the cost of a global fund to maintain public health facilities, national and national health programs. To avoid rising prices for the most widely used drugs and to ensure their social accessibility to citizens, the introduction of a new budget programme of 110 million dollars is envisaged. There is an 18 percent increase in spending on centralized purchase of insulin for diabetics, AIDS treatments, endothelials, testing systems. And we're taking this problem off the table. The government foresees expenses that were previously unfunded, benefits to widows, members of the families of military personnel, and members of the military and chiefly warehouses of over 100 million dollars. This is the first time we've come to a solution to the problem of reducing the gap between individual categories of military personnel depending on the retirement term. For this reason, more than 170 million dollars are foreseen. We also provide over 500 million dollars to compensate soldiers for the income tax of individuals. The amount of funds to be allocated in 2004 to social programs on children, families, women, and young people increased twice. The increase in employment pensions and the provision of additional incomes in previous decisions has increased more than 270 million dollars. The internal redistribution of approved budgeted funds is intended to cover the debt of wages in coal companies. The increase in capital expenditure amounts to over 2 billion dollars, that is, part of the cost of privatization is invested in other assets and provided an investment vector of budgetary changes. As for the changes to article 109. Non-payment of arrears at the beginning of 2004 to enterprises. the State form of ownership and the agro-industry complex, which has been bankrupt and eliminated, is directed towards the coming of privatization under this article. We propose allowing NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to pay off their debt before the 2000 budget to work on the construction of gas pipelines for the rural population of 200 million dollars. There is a significant increase in the cost of supporting the agri-industrial complex. About one billion dollars goes to the development of the village in the second half of this year. The construction of gas pipelines, leading to rural settlements, continues. To do this, 200 million dollars has been spent. We took the criticism from the agrarians and envisioned the construction of rural roads with an increase of 155 million dollars. For the purpose of purchase to the State Food Reserve and Light Oil Products by the State Committee on the State Material Reserve, the government budget is set at 400 million dollars. It is envisaged to continue the practice of providing funds to local budgets for socio-economic development and environmental protection. About one and a half billion dollars are allocated to the development of territorial administrative units. Another painful issue is the elimination of the effects of an accident on the CAES. In order to provide more fully the costs associated with such social programs, we are further planning 320 million dollars, the detailed directions you see on the slide. In general, the calculations made are real. And they don't risk the economy. They make it possible to actually increase income and domestic consumption. In making calculations, the government focused primarily on improving the quality of life of the population, ensuring the dynamic and harmonious development of man and his spiritual, life - and intellectual qualities, social justice, and poverty reduction. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please support the changes proposed by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the First Deputy Prime Minister's report, Minister of Finance Mikola Janović Azarov, has been completed. Let's get to the questions. Up to 20 minutes to ask. Please sign up. On board, please, are the names of the national MPs who have been enrolled for questions. Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Lara's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Eugene Gorgen. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Eugene Gornik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u97	Eugene Gorenik, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u98	Dear Mikola Janovich, you're saying that these budget developments have a social dimension. But if you look at the amount of expenditure, it turns out that 1.1 billion. For salary and 300 million Retired. Everyone else doesn't have that kind of social orientation. I asked the committee yesterday about the possibility of increasing these salaries and pensions, not for two months or for a month, but starting on July 1. Well, you couldn't have made a redistribution to do that on July 1st, all the more so that the price of the question was only 40 million. A bracelet? Is such a redistribution possible in second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u99	I answered that question yesterday: 400 million. That's a month-to-month question. In addition, more than 800 district, city, district councils need to consider budget changes. And the sooner we finish this consideration, the more we confirm the changes to the budget, the sooner the local authorities will be able to prepare for the transition to pay for the new salary and to restore the ratios. So the government has made a balanced decision in optimal terms, and we expect that we will be able to secure these payments. Second question. We've got a social pay-as-you-go ratio aimed at improving the quality of life of the population. These payments exceed 70 percent of the total change to the budget. Another billion dollars are focused on the development of the village, which we are also looking at in terms of increasing spending on the social standard of living of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u100	Yes, Larine gives his word to the Master. Please, the Masterpiece microphone. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u101	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Žmerinski constituency. Mikola Janovich! Mikola Janovich, I'm here. I have a question for you. As you know, today 8 billion dollars are loans taken under government guarantees and not paid off. Accordingly, this one is certain, let's say, both the tax burden and the budget burden. And as you know, today it's 25 percent, 24 percent of the budget's spending goes to government debt service. Realizing that this is a problem, I would like to ask you the answer to this question: What do you think in terms of paying off this debt that the government is offering, and why does the article in the budget not work for these foams in terms of restructuring this debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u102	I will remind the distinguished national MPs that the left hand side of Ukraine's government debt is already restructured by agreements between Ukraine. And the Club of Credits of the Paris Club. Underline: the left-hand part of the debt. I have already answered that question. We do not consider Ukraine’s debt, especially its external debt, to be critical to our country. And we are quite responsible for meeting our restructuring obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u103	Zara Katusheva, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u104	Please give the floor to Anatoly Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u105	Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mikola Janovich, I have a question for you. First of all, I would like to comment on article 109-3, which relates to the coming of the privatization of state property "over volume". I think she's got it all mixed up. One thing is clear: State money is intended to be spent on private purposes, including the creation of a nonstate pension fund for workers in institutions and budgetary organizations. And the second. I would like to convey, Mikola Janović, to you the general dissatisfaction of many areas of the Hersonian region that you for some reason have left to invest under Cabinet Order No. 509-510. And today people and water don't have, and they don't get a shirt for gasification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u107	And I'll give you a thank you for the Hersonian machinebuilders, to whom the government has allocated considerable funds to rebuild these companies. I could give you a bunch of examples of how government helps solve a whole range of social problems in the Herson region. In the following changes, we predict an additional 75 million dollars for investment programs. And as a national deputy from the Herson region, you will have the opportunity to make suggestions to the government that we will consider, to agree with the Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council and to implement. As far as 109-3 is concerned. The budget can only allocate what it has in its execution or what it can firmly count on. Thus, important articles of the budget spending, such as the repayment of debt to the agro-industries or state-owned enterprises that have been eliminated at this time, and the State has to commit itself to paying off this debt, as well as the creation of a state fund that would provide insurance for employees of the entire budget sector, namely, education, health care, and agrarian workers. Who, besides the State, will take on this destiny? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u108	Alexander Bandurka, Democratic Initiatives and People's Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u109	Dear Mikola Yakovich! On page 21, there is such a package that there is an additional number 1 assignment. 7.1 million pennies for feeding orphans and children deprived of parental care who are trained in vocational and technical schools. What about those orphans who are being trained in the public educational institutions of the Ministry of Education and Science? Is there money in the minister's budget to feed them? For major MPs, it's a problem -- helping these kids and providing them with food. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u110	I think we're going to solve this problem within the framework of the state budget spending, we have several budget articles where the government has the ability to channel funds towards solving this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u111	Anatoly Rahansky, "Trudova Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u112	Anatoly Rahansky, "Trudova Ukraine", Epatorian constituency. Dear Mikola Janovich, please tell me how much you've increased the cost of artesian wells. This is very important for the rural areas of the southern regions. First question. The other one. How much do you predict how much grain you're going to spend on buying is centralized by the state? And the third. It's a very important question. The Hidden object is in critical condition, and the liquid and solid fuel factories are not being built or mounted at all today. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development lacks funding. Tell me, does the State fulfill its obligations, its contributions, or does it not? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u113	In the State Budget, there are thousands of indicators. I don’t know exactly how much money is being spent on this, but I know that there is an additional increase in the cost. As far as the grain is concerned. The government has set a goal, an ambitious goal, to create a state reserve of about 1 million tons of grain. And it's going to be done. With regard to the "Hiddenness" object. The state of Ukraine is fully fulfilling its international responsibilities in the implementation of this fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u114	Kozlowski, please, instead of Slauta.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u115	Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, 133 constituency, Mikolayovščina Dear Mikolo Janovich! I'm personally impressed by the Yanukovich government, because I just saw that the budget is balanced in the 3rd, 4th year. There was no such thing. All the articles in the budget are being implemented today in one article. So I supported and will support this government, and my constituents support this government. I have a question for you. Is it possible to include an article in the 4th year budget for the repair of stadiums and cultural buildings, because we can't solve this question. If possible, help. No, to put this article into the budget for the fifth year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u116	In total, the cost of developing physical culture and sports increases by about 1.7 times this year. The article also provides funding for objects. We pay considerable attention to this issue, and the prime minister personally controls these budget proposals. For the next year, we also anticipate an increase in expenditure on physical culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u117	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u118	Dear Mikola Janovich, I have three short questions for you. First. Who in the government was responsible for miscalculation of the budget? As we can see, there has been complete opposition and, in particular, the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council. Nearly a million budget figures were offered to us correctly, and the government is not. Who specifically bore this responsibility? The other one. Article 51 of your proposed changes provides that the State budget is to cover the Kirpa affair with the construction of the Kiev-Odes pay road. You want to spend 1.5 billion dollars on what the law doesn't yet provide. I remind you that the Supreme Council, Mikola Janović, has not passed the law on this matter. Since when does this budget provide for expenses for which the law has not yet been passed? And the third question. Article 109.3 from my point of view is an article in the presidential election fund. Since when are we enormous expenditures that are not budgeted, which have not yet been distributed manually? Let's cancel this article, and there'll be expenses, and you'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. I mean, I've already talked about this in the report, always, in any country any government that provides financial stability in the State is expecting a budget based on a conservative scenario, I would even say a pessimistic scenario. Always and everywhere! Therefore, there was no underestimation. However, who can guarantee that such a favourable environment in the external markets will continue? Who can guarantee the price of oil and other energy carriers on which Ukraine's economy depends? I could add a dozen more arguments that would suggest that any Government, I stress, which thinks of the country's financial stability, the balanced budget, will always go beyond the concept of a balanced and realistic budget. And if there is any additional money associated with economic development, the Government should argue this and come to Parliament with changes to the budget, which is what the country is doing. I don't want to go into more detail about tax revenues for five months this year, but I recommend that all those who want to know about the so-called hidden incomes of the government go to the National Bank, to the State Treasury, whose electronic accounts include the funds that come from. for all economic activities. Check them out with expenses. You have, for example, a great control tool -- the Supreme Council's Auditorium, which, by the way, might say that the accounts were, for example, 10 billion more than the government had spent in five months. Why doesn't the government waste them? That's not the question that needs to be answered at first, and I'm reporting that unfortunately, we were forced to use more than a billion leftovers in five months, the only government treasury account. And that means there's no hidden income in the government. Both the government and the State Tax Administration need to make a great deal of effort to ensure that the income figures are carried out in five months and that they reach those budgeted figures to ensure that more than two billion incomes are carried out. And only then will we be able to count on any additional revenue on all kinds of taxes. And this. Any qualified, I emphasize, expert, will be able to find out easily by analyzing the statistics he mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u120	Anatoly Matvienko, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u121	You, Your Honor, have confirmed here, and we're doing what you've confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u122	I'm asking you to add ten seconds. Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Mikola Janović, two questions. It seems clear to me that VAT is absurd to sell and rent land to rural and urban councils. This has created a failure to implement the budget and has stopped this coming to local budgets. I offered to re-establish the rule that there is such a benefit that there is no VAT on sale and rent, and you rejected it. Mikola Janović, I ask you to understand that we are creating some sort of absurdity by ourselves, especially since the Constitutional Court has already considered this question. The other one. I don't understand how administrations can be asked to divide budgets between cities and regions. What do you suggest? This is about what the Cabinet of Ministers did by allocating funds for capital construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u123	Well, on VAT, we're going to look at Anatoly Sergiyovich's proposal and look for a negotiated solution, I mean selling land to local councils. With regard to the article in which we give the right to administrations, it is the allocation of additional funds. And the point is that the district budgets are not evenly provided by the resource base. So district administrators have the right to decide and compensate for falling incomes or lack of income due to excess income approved in the state budget. It's their right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u124	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Time's up. Welcome to the report by Victor Pinzenik. Please, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, tops. Prepare the powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Consider some things. The heads of Ukrainian citizens suddenly fell to eight billion dollars. The government has implemented a budget project that has an increase of eight billion dollars. It was 64, it's 72 billion dollars. Where did these billions come from? I'm sorry, this is about a 15 percent budget error. But there is no mistake. The thing is, it's a conscious policy of underprivileging and hiding the income of the budget. And it's a policy that doesn't last for the first year. I've been talking about last year about what happened to the budget. When the government constantly claims that there is a lack of funds for social purposes. And then the project comes out, and we've approved the state budget of 50, and we've approved the government budget of 55 billion. I want two pieces of it. First. For the resources of the budget. And the second part is where you can point them. The fact that the budget was understated, and it's not a random thing, I want to show you in the graphs right now. And what I want to make clear is that I use only official statistics and government data. The government gave you a budget to approve where the gross domestic product base was 255.6 billion dollars. Now take official statistics. The number of the report is 264 billion. So the under-performing of GDP was almost 9 billion dollars. Second thing. Please show me the next graph. Last year the government ended with a growth rate of 9.5 percent. In his budget calculations, he made 4.8 percent. In the government program, which was widely approved here, 9.5 percent. And actually we have 11.5 percent. The result of these manipulations with a woolly inner product. Please show me the following material. Here's another one, next one. Next, next, please. As a result, this year’s budget was calculated from a gross domestic product of 283 and a half billion dollars. Pick up your papers. It's not hard to calculate, and I've calculated this number: my gross domestic product figure is 314 billion. That's 31 billion more than the government's budget. You can see that I turned out to be a bigger pessimist because I was handed over to you. This is a government figure, where the GDP this year is 317 and a half billion. My dear friends, this is about 34 billion understatements in gross domestic product. Again with the same figure, the government-given booklets, the government's 27.6 percent of GDP. You multiply 317 and a half times 27.6-- you're going to get 88 billion dollars. This is equal to 10 billion dollars more than the government's budget figure. Dear friends, we were fed by government assurances that both GDP and the budget were unrelated. I'm asking you to reverse the schedule. I specifically prepared information for the government about gross domestic product. GDP includes three components: it's either an object of taxation, or it's a direct tax, it's a labor fund, profit and mixed income, it's pure taxes on production and imports, it's VAT and excise. So to say that it's not the income of the budget, it's the ignorance of the basic things in the economy. There are serious manipulations with the Pay Fund. I'll call you two digits, and that gives me reason to say that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, at least five billion dollars are still hidden in the Pension Fund. Last year, according to the report, 91 billion dollars. The government calculated the income of all the funds from the Wages Fund this year, 89 billion. What, do we have a cut in wages? Take official statistics. According to official statistics, this year's salary is rising by 31 percent, so we're dealing with serious income concealment, not just the budget, the Pension Fund. I'm glad that thanks to the efforts and factions of our Ukraine and other MPs who were not indifferent to the problem, the topic of concealing revenue became public, and it got out. And what we have today is the ability to make decisions and channel the budget's income in the right direction. What is the principle of the difference between a government project and a project that our faction has made? First of all, in the government's budget project, despite constant statements, we're running out of wages. Remember why they were motivated to lower the minimum wage? It turns out that out of 8 billion dollars of additional budget expenditure to raise salaries in the budget area, up to 1.1 billion dollars are allocated. Once again, the government does not have the funds to carry out its direct assignment. Two days ago, some applauded in the hall for adopting the 57th article of the Education Act. There was no money in the government to fully introduce article 57 of the Education Law. The bill I'm talking about provides for a minimum wage of 240 dollars to be set up to restore inter-staff salaries in the budget area. Second, it's supposed to promote the prestige of a skilled work -- a doctor, a teacher, and so on. In other words, the average wage in the budget area is going to increase more than the minimum wage. The full scope of article 57 of the Education Law, including the recognition of public debt owed to educational people, is foreseen. The draft law addresses the problems of pension insurance. Deputies! Obviously, not everyone has noticed that Ukrainian pensioners have been discriminated against. Given the different retirement terms, we've established the only rules that women will always be deprived of. [[55 years old women, 60 years old men]] It's a violation of the Constitution. The draft law that we have introduced provides for the elimination of discrimination in the pensions of women and other categories. The draft law regulates the establishment of a minimum pension of 55 percent of the average wage on the economy. By the way, the definition of the average wage has been made by clarifying so that there are no manipulations that the government has allowed. There is an increase in scholarships of up to 50 percent of the subsistence minimum. provisioned standards allowing for subsidisation or for leasing of credit for housing construction. What kind of things could you go out on? I'm saying that the resources that are in the budget, which so far have not been fully shown, could be able to raise the salaries of the budget by 25-30 percent, to raise pensions about the same size. The cost of six months for these purposes is about 4 billion dollars. So we could solve other problems. But the main problem is that we have to make progress in the social sphere. Dear colleagues! I ask you to consider, consider the arguments that we have used, take into account the fact that the budget should always be socially oriented and, above all, on wages, aids, pensions and support our bill, take it into account in the budget, and allow our people to breathe a little bit easier.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u126	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Sign up for a question, five minutes. On the board of names, please. Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u127	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich, I'd like you to comment here on a sensation that is praised by the very government of Yanukovich, and compare it to what the government of Yashchenk was doing. They are now generating debt in a growing economy and the ability of a income base not to do so. But the government of Yushchenka, unable to have any income, took no money. Now, as an economist, I'd like you to do an analysis of what the Yanukovich government is doing today, and how our children will then be counted for the adventures of Azarov and Yanukovich for the considerable accumulation of debts. They want today, 70 is billions, plus 50. I've asked you to be an economist for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u128	Dear friends, remember the beginning of the year 2000 -- Ukraine was a few weeks before the default, i.e. the collapse of the financial market, the collapse of the bracelet to 50 dollars per dollar. What was the reason? These are debts that the government could not handle. Since 2000, thanks to God, Ukraine has begun to come out of debt. Take note of one budgetary situation, which is a very disturbing situation. This year's government budget is rising by 5 billion and spending by 8. What's going on? The government began to raise debts. In other words, the budget deficit is increasing. This is a wrong, harmful, and extremely dangerous policy. The government is proposing to increase the budget deficit, the original deficit, to two percent of the gross domestic product, 7 billion dollars. This policy, I recall, brought Ukraine to the brink of default in 2000.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u129	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u130	Alexander, Zaporozhye district. First of all, I would like to thank the Government and you, Nikolai Janović, for what has been done in this budget for Zaporozhye and Zaporozhye. Today, we have official numbers on the bridges. Today, there are figures for the repayment of debts by the nuclear power plant. So, Nikolai Janović, thank you very much. As for you, my dear colleague, I have this feeling that even today, if there was a Pope of Rome working in the government, you would still be criticizing him. When are you going from criticism to constructive interaction with the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u131	I, my dear friends, cannot comment on this question because it is a matter of morality, a question of morality. I used numbers, I used government numbers, and the rest on your conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u132	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u133	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I'm talking about the morality you just mentioned. I, for example, work in the district, you know, I have a district that's so red, 161st, Suma district, the Conotopian district. I'm saying that these proposals, when you headed an economic bloc in the government, the faction of Communists raised the question of raising the minimum wage, pension, pay for schools in the 57th article. You've been a fierce opponent in all this. I don't know if you're ashamed to take these offers from the Communists and tell me everything you've been standing in opposition, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u134	You know, cynicism of the Communist faction sometimes surprises me. I have the impression that the Communist Party has nothing left, that simple normal communists have left, and that the Communist faction has been torn away from its constituents. I'm willing to discuss any issues, including my government activities. But please tell me, what does this have to do with the questions that Pinzenic asked today? And is it immoral for you to ask questions, talk about other actions? As for the past period, remember whether Konotap was the initiator of the constant provocation of the issue in Ukraine, which resulted in inflation and the loss of citizens’ income.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u135	Santa's Nightingale. Well, it'll end and there'll be a line. Finally, one more minute, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u136	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I have such a plan. "Trouble Ukraine," the substance. Don't say honey, but it won't be sweeter. You're a well-deserved economist, and you need to know these questions better and deeper. Now you're offering us an increase in revenue. That's the question. If that were at the beginning of the year, we could agree. Five months passed. How's the revenue curve going? Please show which types of revenue do you forecast to increase? Is there a five - month increase? So there's something to share. Because now you're talking about billions that aren't in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u137	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is another confirmation of how it works, how some try to make the Supreme Council headlessly managed herd, sorry. I'm sorry I didn't take the project with me. The draft Budget Act, which was handed out to MPs this morning, which contains 331 pages, and which wants to make a vote today as a law that no one has seen. And unfortunately, Mikola Petrovich couldn't see either. Because, Mikolo Petrovich, I'm informing you that the fact that you're hiding budget revenues is already a fact. This is no longer a conversation. Because the government has increased the cost of the budget. I'm already talking about things where we should give these revenue to the budget, what the goals are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u138	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Time's up. Replica Simonenko. Get Peter Dusty ready for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u139	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, I was forced to take a line with the charges against the Communist faction that we are. I want to remind those who are using today's communist estimates that when they led the government, inflation was 10,500 percent in the state. These reforms, initiated by Pinzenik himself, have led to an increase in the shadow economy, privatization. The result is that the last thing in Ukraine is taken away, the Chrystal was taken away. And we have fought for ten years against this shameful policy of economic reform. And Pinzenik scoundrel came out of the Company only when the President's election began, and when they're fighting today for their candidacy. It was necessary, dear boys, to take care of it all the time, not when, let's say, we have to put our teeth on the shelf. So I ask you, when you talk about Communists, first get on your knees and apologize to the Ukrainian people for what you've done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u140	Calm down! Pinzenic, a replica. Calm down! Pinzenica was named after him. Well, don't call me names. But they called it a last name, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I respect the common Communists and respect their stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u142	Don't call it a name, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u143	But the fact that the faction represented here has torn away its electorate and today represents and protects the interests of power is not something to be argued for every day. You show it by your daily conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u144	Yes, Simonenko, and that's the end of it. Dear colleagues, there was a double exchange of replicas. Enough, all of it! Please. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u145	Dear voters, dear colleagues! When we're talking about what we broke up with. Retirement Reform — Who Voted? - "Ours." The government of Yanukovic was supported. Who voted in favour of sending to Iraq? "Ours" voted in favour of going to Iraq. Who today insists on rehabilitating the UN today, the UPA in the 60th year of Ukraine's liberation? The "Ours" vote. That's it. Who today is responsible for everything that's going on in the state. And to such gentlemen who are trying to criticize us today, I would like them to first repay the debts of the people of Ukraine from foreign banks, to transfer their own accounts to the banks of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's make this happen: let's move now, let's go back to practical work, let's swap shots. Calm down! The powder will answer now, and he'll do the replica first. All of it! Calm down, please. Dear colleagues, since we are in the process of dealing with the matter, let us conclude our consideration of the matter, and then let us take a break. Please, Peter Alexiovich. 15 minutes to report and 15 minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u147	I will use the right of reply on behalf of the Chief. Dear Communist colleagues, distinguished colleagues from "Our Ukraine"! Now you're doing what this authority needs to do -- you're demonstrating how we can be hit by our foreheads in order to remain in power on this contradiction. This is my request: dear Communist colleagues, dear colleagues from Our Ukraine, do not follow this scenario! Stop! And execute your programming positions. Back to the subject of the speech. With your permission, your honorary colleagues from the opposition factions, your esteemed radio audiences, your esteemed television audiences! I would like to welcome you all with a decisive victory, because today, in this room there are the first results of the March and April actions that have taken place all over Ukraine, where we have demonstrated the presence of the hidden revenue of the State Budget! I welcome you, this is, indeed, our true mutual victory! The second thesis is that the honourable colleagues who have now been introduced by the government have demonstrated the irresponsibility of the government position and position and position of certain factions in this room when Parliament was raped and when 5 billion dollars were artificially removed from the people's pockets. I remind you, the budget committee decided on the first reading that we were offering an income and expenditure portion of the budget at 65 billion dollars. If you look at the first article now, you'll see that the next two years of the budget committee led by the opposition factions have proven to be more professional than the multi-million-dollar government, which I welcome again. [[Applause]] Question three. Dear colleagues, you all know that the thesis on political reform has risen to the banner under the slogan "Responsibility of the coalition government." So where is it now, and who is responsible for a 5 billion error? Who is now responsible for the rape of parliament in November and December of this year? I'm sure without us being determined to change our authority, we have a responsibility. You don't have to. Now, back to the immediate draft budget. My fellow Members, you all clearly understand that this document, which has 330 pages, cannot be read for an hour, not to say that it is objective to give an assessment of the contents of the bill in order to give a clear position: and, to the extent that the work is taken into account, I remind you that there were hundreds of them, proposals for changes to the State Budget to be able to be evaluated by everyone, and to what extent the position of the national MPs who submitted these proposals is taken into account. At the same time, we were not prevented from carrying out an extremely responsible analysis. First of all, I'm talking about article 109-3, and I'm talking to my fellow socialists who came up with this, and I'm upset that the excess of the income from privatization is because the government is convinced that they're already out of Parliament, out of budget, outside the Supreme Council, they're going to be in line to share in government. Why is this happening? Because you, parliamentarians, are preventing the executive from working. You're preventing expenses from being made transparently, honestly, so that there's enough time to clearly analyze the revenue and expenditure portion of the State budget. What else can we say from this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cost of the force in this budget is only one billion dollars. I'm giving specific figures: the Ministry of Internal Affairs's spending has increased by 427 million dollars, and the Ukrainian Security Service's spending has increased by almost 200 million dollars. At the same time, we were all convinced that it was important for us to increase the funding of the Ministry of Defence for military reform and for the protection of social servicemen. Thus, the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence in the General Fund increased by only 286 million dollars, which clearly represents the difference of word and work of the executive. Dear friends! I would also like to draw attention to one example that I think is very clear about the social orientation of the budget. Indeed, the government has taken into account many of the proposals for a disproportionate distribution of investment funds and has added 75 million dollars, in agreement with the budget committee, to take into account those areas, those areas, those areas that have just been destroyed, that have been insulted by the previous distribution of funds. [[I don't want to use another feature.]] But I'm pointing out that this sum is almost equal to the amount that the government allocates for only two houses on Banking Street. And I can reassure you, the House of the Supreme Council has nothing to do with this. Dear friends! If you take it, we're going to go to the figures now, because the explanation of the budget committee is definitely based on numbers. Privatization positions, if you're counting now, the privatisation income for the first 5 months of this year was $1 billion 200 million. If you add to that 4 billion 260 million dollars that came from the criminal privatization of the Chrystals, it's already going to be 250 million more than what the government is asking us to approve today. What explanation is there? A very simple phenomenon is that the International Monetary Fund's privatisation income is accounted for in the budget deficit. If the government shows honest numbers on privatization, we'll actually go beyond deficit limits. Today, Ukraine will find itself in an extremely dangerous zone. I can give you enough more examples to continue the disgraceful system of tax restructuring at the added cost, where there is no mention of volunteering. I will not stop at the positions of borrowing and deficit, because Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik has stopped at this very point and it was revealed at Mikola Janović Azarov's speech. Dear colleagues! I want to give you another number. As you increase the budget by 7 billion dollars, note that the increase in the minimum wage from 205 to 237 costs the State budget only 400 million dollars a month: 250 local budgets and 150 government budgets. That is, for only 800 million dollars, we could easily move 2 months before the minimum wage, with full recovery of inter-tariff ratios. But the government doesn't want to do that, finding other more important ways to use budget money. I am not saying any more about the brutal violation of the Budget Code and the procedure for reviewing the Law on Changes to the State Budget, which was once very concerned about individual factions when it came to 2003, but now we are trying to close our eyes. As well as the basis for certain expenses, where there is a brutal violation of the Budget Code regarding the lack of legislative justification for the allocation of budgetary money to actual non-existent budgetary programmes. I'm sure it couldn't have happened with the transparent power. At the same time, when I report the decisions of the Committee on Budgets, I cannot help but express some positive message that was highlighted in the decision of the Committee on Budgets and that was discussed yesterday. I've already said that the government has corrected the error in the 2004 budget, where we've returned to the practice of approving the Investment Capital Regulation by agreeing with the committee, where we can clearly guarantee you now that the distribution will take place transparently, and those districts whose electorates have been ordered to vote for opposition factions will be restored today. There will also be a continuation of budget practice last year, at the expense of NCA’s understocking, 200 million bracelets will be allocated for the construction of gas pipelines. And the questions that were constantly raised by the faction of "Our Ukraine," Eugene Kirilchuk of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, representatives of the Socialist Party, about the ruptured ditches with unexploded pipelines. We're finally going to close this question and let's get the gas up to the people's homes. I think that the positive can also be attributed to the change in the direction of use of funds under the Ukrainian Coal Program. Instead of the money flowing into the pockets of coal generals on a opaque coal restructuring program, the government finally heard our proposals and directed these funds directly to coal miners to liquidate their debt on wages. I'm sure it was very good to have taken into account the proposals of the Agrarian faction and the faction of our Ukraine to distribute this practice to agrarian workers, where tens, hundreds of thousands of peasants found themselves in a situation where debt on wages depended on decommissioned and bankrupt enterprises, and today people simply had no one to turn to. This draft budget provides a concrete source to address this extremely painful problem of the village, where we have a third of the population. I also think that the positive effect of the proposed project is, and finally, the solution to the problems of pension insurance for agrarian workers. Since you know that the adoption of the budget this year has left the village workers uninsured, the costs are not insured. And the cost of the individual pension accounts of the village workers did not come. This year has virtually fallen out of their service. And it's very good that today this was once again the hearing position of the deputies, and in this project there are these positions. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out right now the position of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I don't see Anatoly Matviyenko, thank you Anatoly Sergiyovich, that this bill doesn't take into account the rule of law that we adopted yesterday. The fact is that today local self-government has been found to be simply under the brutal cat of tax administrations, where the measures of places that do not satisfy the employees of the authorities have been found to be in breach of criminal matters as a result of the fact that in article 80, paragraph 49, part one did not settle the issue of taxation on the added value of selling and renting land by local councils. I am absolutely convinced that in view of our adoption yesterday of the law, by making appropriate changes to the value added tax law, we must take this position into account by removing paragraphs 5.1.17, 5.1.19 from the VAT law by deleting article 80, paragraph 49, of the first part. Also.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u148	Except for the free privatisation of the housing fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u149	In addition to the free privatisation of the housing fund, it is absolutely correct, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a comment. I'm saying that for the transcript. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets received several further appeals after the committee had taken its decision. I was asked to announce this to representatives of the Alliance faction, the Labour Ukraine and the People's Authority. "Deminitiates" on their proposals to withdraw funding for an increase in the statutory funds of the State Savings Bank, the State Export and Import Bank, and channel these costs at 180 million to compensate for the loss of savings. The Budget Committee has decided that we are doing these things exclusively in agreement with the government. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u150	Okay. Allow me to finish the speech, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u151	That the government will have the opportunity to express its position. And taking into account the support in accordance with the decision of the Budget Committee to take it into account or reject it. And the third. Today, there is a deputy minister of finance, he hears, Feder Alexiyovich is. I think the proper response of the government will be. And one more thing. A position that has also come to the Budget Committee to entrust the government in its final positions to plan the introduction of an updated system of social welfare by providing for the adoption of an appropriate bill on the food system of workers. I would also have made it possible for the government, in its final word, to also express its attitude toward this proposal. The Budget Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it support and base the project proposed by the Government, taking into account the proposals made in the ruling of the Committee on Budgets. Take it as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u152	Peter Alexiyovich, I'm reading that you're here to propose to the Supreme Council on the basis and generally to approve the comments and suggestions, and here and in the project this is written down. You're saying one part. I'm just reading what's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u153	I confirm Vladimir Mikhailovich's words. A decision was taken yesterday at the Budget Committee meeting, which recommended that the Supreme Council take a decision on the basis of proposals for a draft decision by the Committee on Budgets and then put to the vote in general. That's true. I confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions. Please sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Put the names of the MPs on the board. Lebedivsky, the Communist faction, please. I'm sorry. Our Ukraine faction, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u155	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Bogdan Kostinyuk, faction of "Our Ukraine", group of "The People's Movement of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u156	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u157	Dear reporter! Bogdan Kostinuk, National Movement of Ukraine, Our Ukraine. So today, we can argue that our Ukraine has achieved that these understatements or hidden incomes of the budget are drawn from the shadows. And it doesn't matter whether they're underrepresented, as Azarov says, whether they're hidden, it doesn't matter why -- whether it's because the government is unprofessional or because of deliberate actions, but let's see where they're going. A billion dollars a salary. It's very small. 13 percent of total growth, at least 30 percent. Article 57 does not enter into force, does not enter into force. After the pensioners' savings return, zero funds were allocated. Instead, there is a great deal of money for the needs of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Bogdan. Indeed, our Ukraine, the representatives of other opposition factions have achieved that today we are looking at a real increase in the state budget. Since Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik could not answer Mikola Petrovich Noshchenka about what particular types of income the government did not take fully into account the need to increase the income part of the budget, I would stress that the income increase in the category of taxes on the added value of domestic production is not included. We're kind of shrinking, and you know that today as the plan goes up two billion dollars, the compensation plan goes up by almost three billion dollars. And in fact, of course. This is the reserve the government keeps. We actually have a partial account of the transitional cash balances that the committee stressed back in November last year, which are included in chapter 884 billion, and which are not fully planned. I emphasize that at least one billion dollars is hidden by privatization. And to date, such an acceleration in the adoption of this law and the planning of the funds that came for the privatisation of the Crookryzstal combine is the next step that this money has already been distributed. And the return to the question of privatization of the Chrysalis has already been linked to budgetary issues -- this kind of trap we've prepared. And I'd like not to worry, there's money to pay back this budget. That's why we're dealing with it. There's other revenue from the State budget, and I'm absolutely convinced that if a decision is made to redesign this project for second reading, we'll have convincing arguments about transferring or accelerating the implementation of the minimum wage at least from July 1st. The 800 million we need are ready to offer a session hall and a government. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u159	Ludmila Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u160	Please pass the word to Thurman Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u161	Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u162	Petr Aleksevic, well, in your statement, you said so much, and the budget committee, and you personally provided assistance and assistance in addressing the financing of the coal sector under the coal programme. I mean, we've always solved this problem, I mean, the coal trade unions, and you know, every year. This time. First. Second, the budget for the area last year was 3 billion and implemented by 100 per cent. No Government had previously implemented a 100 per cent budget for industry. There's a billion more this year. More like a billion. And last of all, you said you were in debt. Debt came about for the first time. Three times met with the Prime Minister, personally his initiative, 277 million this year in the repayment budget. If each Government had solved those problems, this problem, social and political, what you said would have been removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u163	Let me not comment on how trade unions, including the leader of a social committee, have solved this problem. To date, I would like to say that, in order to deal with it definitively, miners should not walk hand in hand and demand taxes from the Government, the prices of coal products must be adjusted. So, I would like to ask the Government how, in raising prices from 60 per cent to twice, we still have a problem of wage debt with doubling budget funding. And where does the money that gets the mines go and why doesn't it go to pay? Today, the answer is very simple: Because the coal industry, like other industries, requires transparency and honesty. More is needed today than money, including in the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u164	Bull, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u165	Georgie Buiko. Please pass the word to Hinsburg Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u166	Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u167	I thank my colleague for the opportunity to ask a question. Dear Peter Alexiovich, I am delighted by you, to say the least. But I have a question for you. I go to the government many times. I have a problem in the Shastkin region with budget subsidies because in the village of Pryrogówka Shosttinsky district, the Blackwater area, there were a lot of businesses that worked in Kharkiv. Then, in connection with the adoption of the 899th tax base, there was a decline in this area. The head of the administration was changed in this regard. Questions. I made an offer to your Budget Committee. They weren't discussed yesterday. I'm wondering today, "Why aren't we considered?" They are found in the person who is on vacation or on vacation and who is unable to submit it. You tell me, please, what I can do now if it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u168	Actually, yesterday's the day's work. First of all, thank you very much for your kind words to my address, Mrs. Olga. Secondly, yesterday a meeting of the Budget Committee took place where we were physically deprived of the opportunity to consider. [[Peter Mikolaiovich, don't criticize Mrs. Olga--she said her things honestly]] I would like to say that the four hours that took place yesterday at the Committee on Budgets, we were, unfortunately, deprived of the opportunity to consider not only your proposals, but also the proposals made by many other people's deputies who tried to make their very thorough comments, as well as your observations, are absolutely solid. So I suggest that if the government does. If the Supreme Council adopts this law in the first reading today and he returns to the committee, we will certainly consider it thoroughly, regardless of who is on vacation, we will certainly consider your offer and position on the Sixth. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u169	Peter Alexiyovich, allow me to ask you this question and return to the forerunner. Here, the Financial Support for the Regions section states that “the additional costs for the implementation of the minimum wage of 237 dollars from 1 September 2004 with the maintenance of the current ratios of the work of budget workers planned as an additional grant from the State budget for the budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district and city budgets of the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol, which account for more than half of 57 per cent of the total budget resources allocated to the State for the stated purpose”. And then, attention -- "at the same time, to achieve the most effective distribution of these funds between all levels of local budgets, taking into account the expenditure already planned in the current year, to grant the right to carry out such allocation to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and to the district government, respectively, between the budgets of cities and districts." Perhaps it would be better to write, "according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Crimea and the District Councils of Kiev and Sevastopol City Councils," because they are completely moving away from this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u170	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're absolutely right. Moreover, this rule, which is enshrined in the government, is not in line with the Ukrainian budget code. So this is just a direct requirement of legislation that we take into account the position of representative authorities. The Budget Committee, as his head, I fully support the comment made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u171	So we've taken this proposal into account. Bandur Alexander, Group of Democratic Initiatives, People's Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u172	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, both the government and the budget committee worked as I thought on the draft budget, changes fundamentally. You suggest that you accept the first reading and return to the Committee on Budgets. As you look at the offer to accept today as a whole, for if we extend until the end of the session, we will never accept it. You can not accept the budget, nothing will change, old pensions, old wages and old scholarships will remain. And everyone, I think, is set up to make changes for the better. That is how the proposal is made today to accept both in the first and in general, as a law, the changes proposed by the government and the budget committee. Thank you. Your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Alexander Mikolaiovich, I am unfortunately bound as head of the budget committee by the decision of the budget committee. I can give you my personal position. It's definitely about that, and I trust the members of the budget committee who are sitting there, really professionals. who are no less than others concerned about the need to increase wages and are responsible for it, and I trust the session room that it is also sufficiently motivated, and I understand the need to make changes to the State budget and to increase the corresponding rates. But I would absolutely insist that we have more time to take into account positions, for example, regions. Tomorrow in Donetsk there is the Coordination Council at the Head of the Supreme Council, where we should discuss increasing the expenditure of the State budget to the minimum wage, taking into account the position of the regions. But yesterday, the budget committee did not support this proposal and made a decision recommending a vote today. That's why I'm forced to tell you, even though it doesn't fit my position, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u174	Mikola Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine faction. Plutinski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u175	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I've listened very carefully to you, I'm grateful that you're very supportive of agriculture, that is, you and the budget committee as a whole, but I'd like to ask you these two questions. I understand that you support changes to this law. Will you support or not? And I believe that you may be critical of the government, especially Azarov Mikli Janović, who has recently been extremely good at agriculture. to this farm. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Antonovich?That's how I'm going to answer you. In my opinion, the People’s Agrarian Party was very lucky with the Head. Because a huge number of proposals were made at his initiative, including an increase from 900 million to 1 billion 300 million bracelets. And for the first time, by the way, these proposals were consistent with the proposals of other factions, particularly the faction of our Ukraine. Finally, for the first time, there was a concept of how to solve pension problems, not to drain money, but to make effective legislative decisions that would ensure that funds were received directly to the village worker. This is about compensation for pension benefits for everyone without intermediaries. It's about eliminating the debt on the payroll -- everyone gets it. And what's happening today is that for the first time there's been an attempt to invent the debt of liquidated and bankrupt enterprises where people have just gone unanswered, I think it's the first time that we've done our work together. I am absolutely convinced that this budget, on a qualitatively new level, finances the agricultural sector. But I'm sure, first of all, we need to work very seriously on the agrarian strategy today. I can tell you that we don't have her today, she's gone. If you put more money into the agrarian area today -- it's going to be a problem, it's not going to be a holiday, it's going to be a problem. Because we don't have specific expenses today, where we can clearly put the money into the village, per kilogram, per hectare, per tonne, for other things, so that people, farmers, workers can get that money. So I'm sure the job is just getting started. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u177	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u178	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I have two questions, very brief perhaps. Please tell me that this is an additional 1 billion dollars planned for the APC's economic spending. Do you think the peasants will know the minimum purchase price as soon as possible, or will the full cost of this billion be financed by the costs of the social economy? And the second question. The National MP, Leonid Vernigor, has repeatedly asked you about the removal of VAT from children's health routes throughout Ukraine, and only in Cabinian. As a father to a large family, do you think this is right or wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u179	Mr. Michaela, thank you so much for asking. Frankly, I think that the village should certainly be compensated for social expenditure. But since, like the question of purchasing the price of agricultural production, it is within the competence of the executive, including mortgage prices, including the regulation through the reserve, our business is to allocate enough funds there. And you know, 200 million is being allocated today to collateral operations with grain. I'm not saying how transparent they are, but I say again, budget spending is foreseen. 200 million net resources for the general budget and 200 million for disarmament have been allocated to the state reserve to enable it to maintain a high price in order for the farmer to receive a fair price for its production. How effectively the government will manage this money, let's see. So far, unfortunately, we have had very few good examples of this. And the issue of withdrawing VAT from children's travel. I am absolutely convinced that these problems should be regulated by law, not by the Budget Act and the provisional legislative acts every year. And I'm sure that the government is also bound to take a position on this. But, honourable colleagues, as I finish my speech, I am absolutely convinced that unlocking the budgetary process and eventually making changes to the budget, in a solid, serious way, we should address the extremely problematic strategic issues facing the country today. It's a housing-communal problem. We had one billion dollars to solve the problem across Ukraine. Unfortunately, today we have, including in this draft budget, budget dispersion, unprogrammedness. This is a problem that you and I will have to deal with together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the factions. In order of writing, I will give the floor to the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions. The oil man, the replica. I don't know what it is. Please, the War of the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine is united. Has a word to speak first according to the entry. Turn on Olinick Petra's microphone, please. Very fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u181	Peter Oliynik, 125 Sokar constituency, faction of our Ukraine. Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, by accepting these changes to the budget, we place all the city heads and heads of rural, village councils. Because it is written here that article 47 should be supplemented by this: the write-off of funds for the benefit of educational workers, provided for by 57 articles of the Ukrainian Education Act, is cancelled by the State Treasury from the allocations set up for the maintenance of these institutions. This means that the legal requirements of the teachers for the payment of the 57th article will be cheated by the courts, by the allocations provided for education, by those institutions. And that means that we're practically going to get paid today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u183	Do not destroy local self - control.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the 57th article, you and I have made the right decision on the basis of the law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vojsz, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a long-awaited and very necessary bill to amend the 2004 budget. According to the faction of the SDPI(o), the government-designed project will allow a number of important social issues to be addressed, including the financial provision of a minimum wage of 237 dollars. The bill provides for an increase in the revenue of the State budget by 5.8 billion. The bracelet, which we think is a perfectly reasonable figure and realistically reflects the increase in GDP as a result of an improvement in the macroeconomic situation. The faction positively appreciates the bill's proposed increase in wage expenditure of 1.1 billion. In fact, according to the government's assurance, this will allow the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 dollars from September 1st instead of November 1st this year and an additional 15 percent increase in budget salaries. Also, as a positive result, we note an increase in spending on health, science, culture, and the media in total over 1.4 billion dollars. That's right. It also supports the faction of SDPU(o) and the allocation of $280 million by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The amount of money raised since July 1st is more than double scholarships for students, as well as increased allocations for new school textbooks, computerization of educational establishments, and expansion of the transportation of students in rural areas. In our view, the adoption of this law is evidenced and given attention to the important issue of pension insurance. Yes, the government, in particular, is proposing to increase the budgetary definition of pensions and assistance by 298 million, as well as to increase by 276 million. In addition, we endorse and appreciate the Cabinet's intention to increase minimum pensions for the first time in recent years. The Faction SDPU(o) also supports the increase in social protection costs for families and young people, defence, judicial authority, physical education and sports, the APC, road agriculture, the coal industry. Another plus for this document is the increase in the investment direction of the 2004 budget, which is reflected in the proposed increase of more than 1 billion dollars of capital investment. So given that the draft law has a social orientation and will help solve the state's pressing problems, the faction of SDPU(o) proposes to adopt it in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u186	Yes. Instead of Assad’s word, Alexander Moroz has changed places to perform. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! For many years, there have been strange practices in Ukraine where authorities regularly love disadvantaged people and actually serve clans. Now the reality is, if you owe 10 dollars, you owe, if you owe 10,000, you're an entrepreneur, if you're a corporation, if you're 10 billion, if you're the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Meanwhile, it is well known that the problem of increasing income and purchasing capacity of the population is a condition of economic stability. The experience of post - Soviet countries and countries in Central Europe shows that only after an increase in wages to $300 or more per person is economic growth. In Ukraine, there's less than a hundred, and that's statistics. And here we come to the election. The government sells out the last riches, and the proceeds are largely aimed at social needs, in other words, at stealing such that it pleases people. That's because even parts of the free resources of the two families that they have allocated for the acquisition of the Chrystals have been enough to close the longstanding problem of social pay throughout Ukraine. Note that two families have turned out to have concentrated such wealth in their hands that free funds can be allocated in part to repay debts throughout Ukraine. This fact proves that the demands of socialists and other opposition factions on payments to teachers, black people, students and so on, raising wages and pensions is not populism, as our President has said, but a real, economically based opportunity. The Socialist Party faction will support these changes, except for article 109, where the money will come and where it will be allocated. They answer the party's policies, right, we're Yanukovich and Azarov so far we won't take part in the party, even though their steps seem to be similar to our demands, and we're going to seek to get away from the authorities and the clans they represent: Ahemtova, Pinchuka, Medvedchuk, Kolomoytsev, Jaroslavsky and so on. Under this condition alone, social justice will become, not a one - time campaign, but a daily exercise of power, the essence of that power. We are deeply convinced that in Ukraine, due to the environment of the external market and the budgetary order, it is possible to double wages and pensions. This is possible in removing today’s power, changing the system of power. And we can't miss that chance, it is, and we have to use it. I urge you to do just that. And the project can be supported in the first reading with the deletion of 109 articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u188	Alexander Turchinov from the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Get ready for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, our faction, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, when this government budget was adopted last year, did not vote for it. Because at the very least, it's estimated that about 8 to 10 billion dollars were hidden in this budget. These resources, the state's public resources, have been converted into a pocket reserve for those who run the country today. Next: what does the Cabinet of Ministers suggest today? Real increase in the income part of the budget. I'm taking a purely general budget, which is 3.7 billion dollars. That is, a large part of the hidden resources remain outside the State budget again. Next question, dear colleagues. The 7 billion offer to increase the spending. At the same time, when you look at how much the budget deficit has increased, you'll see that the actual increase is not happening. I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers can't figure out how much it's going to subtract from the spending revenue. Why is this done, fellow believers? Why is the Cabinet of Ministers refusing to take into account the world’s budget deficit options? That's why it's to go beyond this deficit, the hidden deficit, on account of the coming of privatization. And I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, what kind of privatization are they planning on covering up a hidden budget deficit? Since the privatisation of the Creboristals, first of all. I mean, by voting parliament, they want to legalize the robbery of Ukraine, legalize the crime that they called "the privatisation of the Crookstally" by President Kuchma's family. Next question, dear colleagues. Even from the minimum that the Cabinet of Ministers throws into the income part of the budget and, accordingly, increases the spending, what do they do the priorities for? What do they spend their basic expenses on? More than 1 billion dollars are spent on power structures, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the Presidential Administration, is preparing for a civil war that they want to impose on the Ukrainian people instead of transparent democratic elections. I am not able to tell the majority of those bribes that not only are not solved in these proposals but are increasing. Therefore, honourable colleagues can only be spoken of for adoption in the first reading of the Budget Amendment Act, so that honest, principled deputies who are still on the Committee of Budgets can work with us on this law and adopt it for the benefit of not a handful of leaders of the state in force and for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u190	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u191	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Mikolo Janovich! Dear colleagues! I think that today, really, we need not only to express separate political slogans, but I would also like to remind you that perhaps for the first time in Ukraine's new history, it is possible to redistribute additional revenues within the fiscal year. Those hidden revenues of the budget that we've been hearing about for the past few months have been poured out in proposals for changes to the budget that the government has sent to the Supreme Council. We can, indeed, in many ways disagree with the fact that these changes could be considered earlier. But what I'd like to say is that the extra revenue is the result of an effective implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers program. I think the main thing for us is that, in the context of our consideration of budget changes, we can, in fact, adjust many of the shortcomings that exist this day, so that we can influence the budget process and next year's development so that we not only have numbers and individual positions of the State budget, but we have seen the specific problems of specific people so that the state does not have a state that denies its further economic development. That is, it is important for us not only to stress the individual problems that exist but to take steps to avoid these problems. I want to remind you that these changes give us, in fact, an opportunity to improve the social protection of the population, to provide perhaps the main task that we must perform in front of our citizens. Meeting social obligations is a very complex matter that requires the mobilization of substantial funds and, above all, realistic and well-founded approaches to budgeting and changes. We will insist that this issue be the main issue next year. And last but not least, dear colleagues. From the faction of "Ukraine," I want to say once again that instead of criticism, we have to focus once again on a series of bills that would solve really serious economic issues, give the government the opportunity to work better. Better increase the revenue of the State budget and better ensure the development of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u192	Bogdan Hubsky, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives of the Peoples of the World. Prepare Vasil Spak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u193	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Within a year and a half, the government managed to achieve enormous stability and transparency in the budget. And by every number, there's a serious calculation. And today, of course, it's a great event because you can get at least 7 billion bracelets to finance, including social problems. We support the budget, but at the same time, for technical reasons, a number of proposals from our group's national deputies have not been taken into account. These proposals are consistent with the relevant ministries and do not change the balance of income and expenditure. These proposals were also discussed and agreed with Minfin and the Budget Committee. I'll read them quickly. First. In paragraph 3 of part 3 of the draft Ukrainian Law on Change in the State Budget, the figures and words: “Recent for the increase in the statutory capital of VAT The State Saving Bank of 100 million Grivins and the increase in the statutory capital of VAT The State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine 80 million Grivins” are replaced by figures and by the words: “Recently compensate citizens for the loss of 60 million grivins’ savings. Increase in expenditure under code 3201490 for special fire equipment 50 million dollars. The increase in the fund of cash and wages for officials and employees of the Ministry of Emergency Situations is 70 million dollars. Well, we have to spend more on social needs than on commercial banks that have so much money. The other one. Costs intended to increase the cost of the Ministry of Health under Article 3201460 of the centralized acquisition of diagnostic and other equipment to reduce to 150 million dollars, while increasing the expenditure of the Ministry of Emergency Situations under Code 3201210 of the comprehensive health care of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, to increase by 78 million dollars and three tenths to a total of 121.69. The total amount of medical measures remains the same, but we're redistributing a little bit for the Chernobyls, that's an important social problem. And the third. A technical error has come up, the code has been wrong within the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and so we are proposing to increase the cost of MNS under code 3201230 scientific employment and information systems in the amount of 10 million dollars to increase expenditure under article 3201470 to implement a comprehensive communication, announcement, and information programme to a total of 35 million dollars. The figures are agreed with the ministries, they don't violate the general budget of the department's revenue. And that's why we're asking for your support. The MPs vote in favour of the budget, taking into account our proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u194	Basil Shpak of the National Agrarian Party. Get ready for Ludmila Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u195	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Mikola Janovich, respected colleagues. Today, an important issue is being considered and it's fair, there's an additional coming, there's a need to distribute it. And today we see for the first time how the government has reacted more seriously to the agri-industrial complex, to the lives of those peasants that are today. The people who live in the country today. Today, this is the first estimated cost of a billion and a half million dollars additionally to address the problems in the countryside. And in the country, we know with you, there are some problems. Today, which you do not take, it is a problem, whether it is manufacturing, whether it is social issues, or others. All of it today needs a solution. So today, we, the agricultural faction, are grateful to Mikola Janovich, the government as a whole for this understanding of the peasants and for making this appropriate decision. This is going to be able to raise production today, to improve the economy of production, to solve social issues, to settle partly the debt on wages. We've been talking about the fact that there are no roads in the country today. Today, we have the opportunity to start repairing and building roads. Although it's a small cost, it's a cost. The healing of children. To this day we have forgotten that we have children in the countryside who are unable to go to pioneer camps today who have no opportunity to go to the circus or anything else. We now have a solution again and on this important issue. That's why the agricultural faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine supports the changes to the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2004 and believes that it should be voted today. And thank the government. And hopefully, we hope that these relationships will be maintained in the development of the 2005 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u196	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, Ludmila Suprun, the faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. I would like to say two things about the government's proposed draft amendment to the State Budget Act 2004. With regard to content and the order of acceptance. I would not like to repeat my colleagues and today to list all the positive things that are provided for in this bill. I just want to point out that all of our proposals to the MPs from the opposition factions from the factions of most people are finally included in this bill about 90 percent. It's about education, it's about science, it's about medicine, it's about Chernobyl, it's about rising wages, it's about determining how to implement the kids' travels, it's about the village and so on. There is still no way to consider all the suggestions for today. But we were trying to get the law that goes through today to reflect the interests of the electorate and the interests of the deputy corps, which was clearly expressed in all those positions. 109th article, which today raises the most objections and objections, formed, respected colleagues, solely on the basis of the decisions we made during the parliamentary hearings. This also applies to the repayment of debts on those wages, the farm that has been cut off. This is an exact statement of the wording of our parliamentary hearing decisions. The same applies to other items in article 109. And here you and I do not deviate from any of the laws. With regard to the adoption of this bill. Today we are in the order of adopting the amendments to the State Budget Act, the adoption of the budget resolution, the amendment of tax laws. There's only two weeks left to process. And that's an extremely tight term. So there's this proposal to support the law that the government has proposed, to take it as a basis and with the proposals put forward by the budget committee, where today the interests of factions have been reflected, to adopt it as a whole, and to start working on the budget resolution and the changes to tax legislation. Our faction will support this bill, although once again, we also have observations. But we believe that the advantage of adoption is far greater than it is today to make specific changes to these decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u198	Mikola Noshchenko, Deputy faction of the Hard Ukraine. Prepare Fomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u199	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Nightshenko, 160th constituency, Deaf. Well, two words out of the procedure before talking to the budget. There's a request in the next reporter's report, first of all to the co-rapporteurs, I would ask Peter Alexiyovich, when he's speaking, then the first part is to make it clear that he's made what decision the budget committee has taken, and then we can take the floor and comment on the moment that the national deputy wants, even though it's also unacceptable, because on the budget committee we've concluded that what was stolen has not been found. And I'd like us to increase the number of out-of-session sessions and share extra revenue with the budget. There's an additional 3.5 billion -- they're together, and they're dividing the government that's responding. That's the first one. "Trouble Ukraine" won't share virtual money! Secondly, I emphasize the social orientation of the amendments made. First of all, at the suggestion of our faction, we've unlocked the appointment of special merit pensions, and once again this work will be done by committees in the district government, not in the Cabinet of Ministers, where all our people's flows have been directed, with special merit. Secondly, we need more confidence from the government, because we're putting huge sums in support of the branches. If the positive movements of MinAPC have taken place, and today we're betting millions of dollars, that, I'm sure, will come to my farms, then millions, as we're betting on DeResurrence, need to take additional normative acts of the Cabinet of Ministers and give transparency in their implementation. I'm a member of the solicitation committee, unfortunately, I'm like this, and I can't tell my colleagues if there's transparency in using these funds. [[I don't have an invitation to a meeting and I don't have an executive decision to make.]] And to the end. The faction supports the bill, proposes that it be adopted as a basis and generally as a law, so that it can act as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u200	Katerina Fomenko, Union MP. Get ready for Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, and the discussion that is now taking place in the halls, I think, is of a very strange nature. Please tell me, is there a national MP in the room today who would be opposed to the budget changes proposed in both bills today? Please tell me, is there anyone who would be against raising wages, who would be against raising our agrarian payments by more than a billion dollars? There aren't any. In my opinion, the debate is on the very point that everyone today is simply proposing and claiming to be author: who said first and who said second. My dear colleagues, our electorates, our citizens are waiting for us to make decisions, decisions that could improve their lives, their social status, improve the work of those areas that are being proposed here today to improve their funding. So, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to support the bill of government. I worked in a government-parliamentary working group, and I want to say that for today, the standards that are proposed are balanced and they're supported in a computational way. I have only two problems: the problems of local budgets and the problems of the return of Ukrainian citizens. Local budgets are expected to receive over half a billion dollars. My dears, these are living expenses, this is an extra grant, this is an increase in subsidies that will come from living money to our villages, our villages, our cities. I want to say that we're increasing significantly, well, 15 percent -- that's a significant increase in wages and a significant increase in social articles. And the second problem. I am very grateful to my fellow members of the National Committee on Budgets. Yesterday, a standard was upheld that I spoke out as the head of the Special Temporary Commission on the Return of Ukrainians' Savings, and we made a point at the 4th point to increase the funding of our citizens who were affected by the liquidation of former USSR's savings. We've offered to increase these assimilations by more than 200 million, and I think if article 109 is implemented, we'll be able to answer our citizens for a whole series of questions when they get all 50 dollars and 150 dollars to be buried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u202	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Peter Simonck.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u203	Valerius Assadchev, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear friends! I think the government has, on another occasion, signed up for its helplessness and inability to properly plan macroeconomic indicators and plan the budget. Yes, Mikola Janović, in other countries the budget is also refined, but not by 15 percent in five months and a second year in a row! Last year, 7 billion failed in the budget, this year -- 7 billion in just 5 months. This is the planning system. And the assessment of your economic bloc is given not only by our Ukraine, but even by the President of Ukraine. "Our Ukraine" is very concerned about the increase in debt. You know, in that movie, "Brothers, boys, you've learned. You don't know how to give." And when it comes, we will have to give it to our children and to our pensioners. And yet again you will have to call on him, that he may deliver you all from the defolt. What, though, did the government decide for taking on debts? Did he make a decision in the village? He didn't decide anything. After the VAT? I made it worse after the VAT. In the oil market, he made up his mind? A severe oil market crisis. What did you decide for your debt? And you just stole those debts! And it is a good thing that something has been pulled out of you today, under pressure from the public, they have made a commitment to give something away. Today we are told who will oppose this budget. "Our Ukraine" says, of course, that those social moments that are under the pressure of "Our Ukraine" today, we will support. But we will be against 109 articles. It's an open theft of government money. Now we know that privatization is overrun, and it's going to be distributed in such a shadowy way. We're against handing over 100 million to some military adaptation center for housing, not to the Ministry, to some private entity to hand over that money. Today we will oppose, we will demand, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this I am telling you personally to put to the vote 40 million for a change from here to this Supreme Council. Let those who want to feed these 40 million take responsibility. We're against that, we think it should be thrown out of the budget. And I'm actually surprised that if we're offering to improve the situation, improve the budget, we'll do it in one day, believe me, why don't we just say no. Because there are a lot of bribes in this budget today. So under pressure, we're going to seek further solutions to social issues, only social issues, is our main task, our whole Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! With regard to the charges against the Supreme Council, it's likely that the leadership will be able to feed something. [[That's the Russian word I used.]] You don't have to measure everyone like that. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! In my view, the problem is not whether or not to increase funding for individual social programmes. People are looking forward to this, people who are outraged today are talking about the lack of public support to address the issues of pensioners, Chernobyl, Afghans, concern for women who raise children, our growing youth. But I would like to recall once again that the faction of communists has not voted in favour of any budget, given that these are budgets, not for the development of the country, but for the destruction of economic potential, the destruction of the people in direct and physical exercise, as is done by the representatives of the current government in Ukraine. Changes are being addressed in the context of pre-election speculations by the authorities on wage increases, pensions and real price increases. And of course, today, there is a need to say that prices have been raised, in advance, so to speak, huge amounts have been removed from the pockets of our ordinary citizens. These amounts are now being manipulated during the pre-election campaign. But I would like to draw the attention of distinguished colleagues to some of the conclusions that we need to draw today. First, it's amazing, but why is there no accurate data on macroeconomic indicators, which is what we always talk about when we discuss the budget? In what country could it be that they planned a 4-per cent macroeconomic growth rate for gross domestic product and received 11 per cent? The criminal responsibility of those who had prepared the draft budget and who had misled the Supreme Council, who had sown doubt, disappointment, misery and grief among the people and those who used it for political manipulation and speculation during the election campaign would immediately arise. Next. It seems to me that this is a sign of the stagnation of the real economy today, and its pace is, unfortunately, very serious. It seems to me that we should also conclude that the growth in gross domestic product is due to price growth rather than increased volumes and production, especially industrial production. This volume is increasing in the food industry and exports, but this shows that the main incomes of the population go to food and export potential is raw materials. What the Communist faction is offering to do. First, increase the funds to one billion to compensate our population for the stolen savings. Next. Delete the article in draft 78. Speaking of which, Nikolai Janović, she's already been expelled by the Constitutional Court. Next. We would like to reiterate that the illegal decisions were decisions 509, 510 of the Cabinet of Ministers. And we also have to cancel that. On Tuesday, after hearing the Chechov report, it was illegal to consider matters of privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u206	From the committee of Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Is it Matvienko? Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u207	The Ukrainian Republican Party of the Council, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Dear colleagues, I urge all of us to be a little more sober about what's going on. In fact, we can scream hurrah today, adding more than eight billion to the budget we have adopted. But I'd like to ask you something else from this rostrum. Please tell me, what do we have in our budget today, even with these supplements, compared to what would be worth having, which guarantees a sufficient level of development and guarantees for people? Obviously, this supplement does not solve this problem. I just want to touch on local budgets for example. So let's say we talked about at the end of last year's budget, which is what we need to introduce a minimum wage of 237 dollars from September, about one billion dollars. And so the deficit, or the hole in the local budget, was about one billion. We're now adding 620 million. It certainly solves something. But compared to what is needed today to develop local self - government, there is nothing. Today, 90 percent of local self-governance is the payroll. We have nothing to develop with the rest. Mikolo Janovich, you obviously know exactly what the state of the community is today. But if you look at what we're adding to the utility, nothing. The head of the Committee on Budgets has already said that it would be clear to allocate one billion that would change anything in the communal sphere. Unfortunately, we don't. We have to draw the following conclusions. We can't, in a way that we can't deal with the budget, move on and accept it. Understand, more than a hundred amendments, problems that have not been solved, explain these amendments, and this explains the consideration of changes to the budget, just because we accepted it without discussion. Today we want to talk again just for fiction. But I don't have, for example, answers to questions about how we're going to take into account the proposals we're making. For example, we cannot agree today that local budgets are limited by administration and centralization. We have a lot of references where this is condemned by local self - government. Therefore, it is obvious that you would support your proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that even though the district councils were involved in their distribution. The same applies to VAT for the sale and rental of land, which should also be taken into account. And I think if we get an answer to how these budgets are going to be taken into account, these amendments, we can then vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u208	Mironenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u209	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, at the time of the adoption of the State budget, the faction of communists always insists that the necessary resources be allocated to teachers, doctors, cultural workers, science and other disadvantaged sectors of the population. Unfortunately, though, it is not often that they rarely listen to us. And given our social orientation, I'm on a faction today and I'm now proposing to adopt this bill on first reading. But I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the following. When, in particular, I, like other Communist deputies, was sent an application for the need to invest certain objects. That respectable Nikolai Janović, unfortunately, did not come to the county for any object. Although there is a living claim that funds have gone to Leninsky and the town of Kerch. It is immoral, simply vile, not in accordance with the law, not in accordance with the democratic principles of Western States, to which the Government of Ukraine has consistently invoked, that money is channelled as the official wishes. It's unacceptable. I beg you very much, Nikolai Janovich, I'm here, I'm addressing you again! Listen, please. Money didn't go to Chelkino. Money didn't go to Lenin. And they're strictly necessary! Please send them! In addition, we ask that the Institute of YUHNERO be saved. Nikolai Janovich! I'm asking you to listen, then. YuHNERO is dying, a unique institution in Ukraine, and the only fisheries institution is being destroyed. The funding for a year and a half has been cut. The number of employees has been reduced twice. Make the necessary funds if you are thinking about the development of Ukraine's economy, if you are thinking of your country. Please. Disparity with respect to the pension of military personnel. Well, that's scary! Why such injustice? Those who left before 1992, those pensions, huh? Let's see how it goes. Copy that. We make permanent decisions, but for some reason the Government does not comply with those laws that need to be implemented. It's only if the oligarchs need something, that 100 percent will be done. But if laws on the status of veterans, on cultural workers, on health workers, on education and so on are adopted, they are not implemented. Why? Well, probably because the government probably thinks about the oligarchs' interests, not the people's? Such conclusions must be made. Please: Respectable members of the Government, if you truly represent the interests of the people of Ukraine, please listen to our demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u210	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Volodymyr Puzakov to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u211	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. In that today the Supreme Council is looking at the changes to the budget, the Supreme Council itself is to blame, because let's remember, the honourable colleagues, as we accepted the 2004 Budget. The adoption was followed by a complete violation of the budget code, not by reason of reason, but by instructions from the Bank. The Government of the Budget in the Supreme Council did not present, but opposed, the government acted, not professionally, but politically, taking into account the election of the President. Think about the decrease from 237 to 205. Not counting all the income and not all the savings, the repayments of the 57th article and other social programs. And if these 7 billion were put into the budget on January 1st and they were thrown into the economy today, what kind of economic growth would we have today? It should also be said that today the role of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council has been demeaned. The laws are passed without the opinion of the budget committee, as required by the budget code, and have not become a rule for statements by members of the budget committee under each law and with an analysis of the impact on the country's budget. Not by chance did more than a hundred bills arrive after the 2004 budget was adopted in three months. Such cooperation may not be needed by anyone. That would not be the case if they were in the Supreme Council to vote for a political upheaval, for a government that would be formed by Parliament would never dare to give us an unreliable budget here. The increase in income today is more than 7 billion and social spending is perceived by socialists as their victory because we fought for this December month. We have to admit that the budget is offered politically, because all of this on wages and pensions is planned in September, not July, for example, for elections. From here, dear friends, the conclusion is that the President's election in Ukraine needs to be held once a quarter, because then less is stolen, and in order to win the vote, something is done for the people of Ukraine. Imagine if people in power never stole what would have been done for the Ukrainian people! Socialists against it. as mentioned earlier, we are against the allocation of funds to some appropriate adaptation centers. Socialists are voting for changes in the budget because they increase people's income. At the same time, we need to change the system of power so that power does not. Being in power at all levels is dishonest, that is, a thief. Only then will the Ukrainian people feel a daily improvement in their welfare, not just before the presidential elections. The socialists are deeply convinced of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u212	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u213	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Communist faction will vote on the basis. But it may be necessary to give time for the bill to be drafted. I'm addressing you, honourable colleagues from the Budget Committee, and the government, on behalf of the Rector of the Kirovograd Law Institute, asking you to help solve the problem that has arisen at the Kirovgrad Law Institute of the National University of Internal Affairs. During its existence, the educational institution gained great popularity not only in Kirovgrad, but also outside. Today, there are 430 students and students in the day-to-day form of education, about a thousand students in the day-to-day classroom. In addition, the Institute has begun training courses for members of the police in public order, 240 people. But in the next two years, the number of graduates, both day and day, is planned to double. Today, those who have been handed over to use a school do not meet the needs available. The school building was built in the mid-50s and the capital repairs were not done during the period of operation. It is a building, a teaching complex and a critical dormitory, which requires capital repairs with a substantial amount of capital investment, according to the accumulated cost of about three million dollars. People’s deputies who visited this facility know about this, both in the district and in the city. They made sweet promises, made decisions, but they didn’t do anything, and at the beginning of the new school year. What, then, is made of our decisions? Nothing. And during the existence of a school, all the management efforts were aimed at developing a material and technology base, a science and research base, as well as developing a high-quality scientific potential of a professor's teaching facility. And since the university is funded by the State Budget, I ask the Budget Committee and the Government to make changes to the 2004 State Budget of Ukraine, with three million dollars planned for the capital rehabilitation of the teaching corps and the Kirovograd Law Institute and the improvement of the material and technical and educational base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u214	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u215	Mikola Rudzkowski, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, the issue of increasing the 2004 budget is being discussed. Socialists did not vote in favour of the 2004 budget because we thought the budget was understated. And it turns out that now we're looking at the results of the 1st quarter work and we're increasing the funding for this year by more than 7 billion. We, the socialists, have blocked along with other opposition factions of the rostrum and have this issue addressed in the Supreme Council, so that the budget and money will be allocated to social needs and social articles. Finally, we've achieved that we're going back and the minimum wage is going to be 237 dollars. Remember how most returned to 205. 237 is the minimum that should have been provided since the beginning of the year. Now 237. We think, socialists, we have to vote in favour of these 7 billion, distribute them and channel them to social needs and prepare for September new changes with the provision of a new minimum, not 237, but at least 267 to get us out of 2005 at the beginning of the year for 300 dollars as a minimum. We socialists believe that increasing funding, more medicine than 25 percent more than 500 million dollars; increasing the financing of minimum wages and increasing pensions will also have a positive impact on the economy of the state. But we should not overlook the fact that today’s prices for both meat and milk and bread have crept up because the government ignores the situation in the energy market. And that's why we have to in this bill or adopt a law before the end of the session that will have an impact on the energy situation in the Ukrainian market and reduce fuel prices to the level that was before the energy crisis. Otherwise all these increases will not work for our people, it will only lead to inflation. And that's why we socialists think it's the achievement of the opposition factions that the government has finally increased the financing of social spending. I think the Presidential Administration will try to use these funds as an aggrievement for the third term of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. I think the citizens of Ukraine will take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin, the faction of our Ukraine has a word. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u217	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear government officials! I'm demonstrating to the Ukrainian people what they gave us yesterday at 5 p.m. This is a draft of the State Budget Act, making changes. Please ask yourself if you can accept it immediately on two readings. Mikolo Janovich, you've been on the budget committee, you know there's a budget code, you'd read its requirements, and you'd say, honestly, is it possible to put this bill together today.? Can I answer those who shout? I'll tell you how much each of you can afford. That's it. And then the government distributes the book "leaf" to the majority faction, which is responsible for hiding the five billion that we talked about today. And it says here, and why are the main reasons for the change being made? And Mikola Janovich was afraid to say why. Or the main reason is that it's impossible to keep hiding the facts of what was being prepared for the theft. Thus, the hot government was forced to accept the budget review and had to consider the protest of millions of citizens expressed in mass action: "Yes, well-being, no-Ukraine." You planned to underwhelm wages and pensions and raise them just before the presidential election. For our money, respected voters, the authorities planned to buy favor. I believe, Mikola Janovich, that such a government does not have the right to remain morally in power. You've seen that the accuracy of the budget forecast, the Budget Committee led by Dustynk, has gone up to one billion. And which one of you was responsible for that? Who put ashes on their heads? Nobody! You didn't take responsibility for this in your factions today. And you were supposed to do it. Next. In recent years, the government has repeatedly protested against attempts to raise the level of salaries of budget workers. The motive in his mouth is populism, and it doesn't provide budget revenue. But as it turns out, this year these incomes are. And four billion for all debts from 1997 to 57 are able to be carried out. The government’s claim that it is not possible to introduce a minimum wage in 237 from the following month also has no basis. We don't have to go around all of these issues and raise pensions, the 5 billion-dollar understatement of the Pension Fund says the seriousness that we can raise every pension by 30 percent. Not 30 grevens, Mikola Janović, 30 percent. So I propose in the first reading that I accept, and today I entrust the Committee on Budgets with a date.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u218	Valentina Seminyuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u219	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I'm meeting with the voters and listening to their troubles about not paying salaries, pensions, social benefits, and seeing how the headquarters of the temporary only candidate of President Yanukovich, who is located in the Cabinet of Ministers, in a strange situation not yet privatized, you think, Lord, let's do the election every quarter, or maybe every month. Perhaps people will feel that they are being cared for. And Baranowski's right here when he made that offer. Perhaps the bush, the bear, the pinchucks, and the amethysts, the bears, and the urchins will enjoy themselves while the objects and wages of the people are being extinguished. But I'm thinking another way of thinking about it is, if privatization is completed, if there are no more objects, what are we going to put out? Maybe every deputy is privatizing in a chair and going out of here and saying, "Well, I'll put the last one to the end, but people have good wages, but you have pensions, because I don't have anything to sell anymore." If we continue to do so, believe me, the number of objects that are being privatized today and what is being offered in article 109-3 of the payment on the privatisation bill, which goes above, I don't think we're going to be looking at anything in the future. So let's think about it. First of all, I even spoke and spoke yesterday, and I called the figures, as of January 1, 1995, they were handed over to stockholders holding companies that were created under the President's decree, assets totalling 22 billion dollars, that is, without indexation and inflation from January 1, 1996. And the level is 362 percent. Not a penny of dividends, not a penny in the budget. Each bracelet of government property provides one copy of dividends. Yeah, that's not where we're looking for money! Let's see how the holding companies have been handed over the property. Perhaps it is the reserve that is today for him to work for the State while preserving state property. Maybe it's the reserve that's today to raise the wage at the level of undersecurity and the subsistence minimum that we need to raise in this room today. Socialists are demanding, and we demand that we raise the wage at the minimum wage. And then that's what we're going to say. And then this will actually be done to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u220	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare for the closing statement of Vice Prime Minister, Finance Minister Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u221	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ukrainian Communist Party faction, 161 constituency. I'll start with that. You remember a liter of milk, 14 copies, and a liter of gasoline, 7 copies. I mean, you remember 132 bracelets and how we lived. I mean, there's an anecdote like this: get the goat and get the goat out. So they push, they push, they let go, and that's our principle today. I speak for my constituents. You'll understand what's going on in the hall. You understand that elections, and opposition, and some deputies, and being heads of government, these are all elections today. But I want to say something else. There's a problem. Yesterday, she was held in the Ministry of Health. I picked up a pack of my statements and my voters, and I walked. One girl has to be treated, 40 grand has to be paid for the operation, another has to be treated. And all the cabinets I went to yesterday at the Ministry of Health. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I want to welcome the medical staff today with the holiday they are looking forward to with a professional holiday. And to wish them patience and not to lose what they need to have is to understand the patient. I mean, what's bothering me about today's budget? The adoption of the minimum wage will again be the same as it was, and this should be addressed to the government, translated into zero five bets, into zero twenty - five bets. That means you don't take a pension into account, and that goes to six months of retirement. The year works six months or four years goes by. And we don't count it again. I'm turning to my problem again. Law 889 of article 16 — the order of payments, the recalculation of taxes to the Budget. We need to make a clear definition of how to calculate the retention tax on the income of natural persons that I have incurred in the Shastkin district, where today there is such a problem where three months of debt is owed to teachers and doctors for not receiving the Shastkin district. We need to make clear the definition of a structural unit so that there are no such problems. There is an offer of tax social benefits to bring to the disabled from childhood regardless of age and group, this is article six. Specificities of the payment of individual incomes paid for by material aid, articles nine. Tax social benefits to participants in fighting in Afghanistan and so on. The Communist faction should support the changes to the Dream Budget today, because they are behind people, not political dividends. Only people will we vote for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u222	Yeah, that's the closing statement. Mikola Janović, three minutes closing, please. So we left it for the closing statement. We're watching everything, Yuri Petrovich. Yes, dear colleagues, the closing statement of First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Azarov Mikli Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This was about stolen income, hidden income. Unfortunately, the government is working hard and there is no hidden income. I'd like to stand here on the rostrum and say that the government has a couple of billions of dollars in cash, and we're going to distribute them right now. Unfortunately, there are no hidden billions. In March, government treasury revenues amounted to three billion seven hundred, spending four billion three hundred. I could go on. It's our government's job to get the money on the rivna planned by the State budget. And the fact that we have invested in increasing our income will only mean one thing that we require the State Tax Administration to increase our income by two billion, we demand that the Customs Service increase our income by two billion, and we are going to work very hard on the coming costs of the State budget. This is a very difficult task, and the government forgets for one minute that we have 2005 ahead of us, and we must take the base today into account in the 2005 base. I don't understand the allegations that there are hidden funds in the Pension Fund. We can get the accounts and see how the Pension Fund payments go. But that's not what I'd like to talk about. We have invited Parliament to endorse the draft of serious, radical social change, which concerns improving social security, addressing the multiple of the country's most important challenges. So I propose to support the ruling you've been given. And the government agreed on three proposals made by the people's deputies. They refer to the adoption of a bill on the food system of workers, which was contained in the statement, the proposals of the People's Deputies of Zinchenko. We agree that the additional costs allocated to the district administrations should be distributed visibly and approved by the visible councils. We agree to take fully into account the visibility of the VAT excise tax on the privatization of utilities [[B in m in s a l in]] And once again, the article that predicts an extra cost distribution is the 109th three, and it's the socialists I'm talking to). The Cabinet of Ministers will develop and harmonize this arrangement with the Committee on Budgets. Only then will it come into force.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u224	Please enable the completion of the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u225	And a few words to the conclusion. I am addressing Communist speakers who have said that there is an imbalance in the pension insurance of military personnel who retired before 1992. I want to assure you that the government understands the importance of this task, and we are gradually solving it. The 180 million that we're sending in the second half of the year are practically going to let it go. The final solution to this problem will be proposed in the 2005 budget. So I urge you, honourable national deputies, to vote on this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u226	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, proposals that agree to take the government into account, along with the committee, have just been sounded. I would also like to take into account the proposal to delete from article 80, paragraph 49, of sub-paragraphs 5.1.17 and 5.1.19, except for the free privatisation of the Housing Fund, what he proposed. What? What? I didn't get it. With three minutes of motivation, please sign in. Three minutes of motive. Would you please give me a name? Bondarenko Volodymir, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u227	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u228	Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u229	Sobolev, Our Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear colleagues, I think in the absolute majority of the speeches there is the idea that we can vote today only in the first reading. This is the point that is divided. And I think that if we take into account the proposals that we've made in both the agrarian faction and the other factions, and we're going to take in the first reading, we're going to be able to get the Budget Committee and all the other committees ready for the second reading of the budget, which will take all the proposals into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u230	Raisa Bogatirirov, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the government for its fruitful work on the budget. And I think today we will find an opportunity, once the First Vice Prime Minister has spoken, to achieve a positive vote on this document. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u232	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, we will support any changes to the budget, but we ask paragraph 8 in article 13 to read as follows: "For the compensation of the Pension Fund for non-payment of insurance premiums, which was created as a result of the fact that agricultural enterprises are paying fixed premiums. a tax that does not cover pension payments to the full" rather than compensation to enterprises so that they do not go from half year to year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u234	For reasons, everyone has the right to speak and say what he wants. Don't teach me to live, you better help me materially! Please, Polit, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u235	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u236	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u237	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction is voting on the basis of this draft change to the budget, but in general, we will vote after hearing the report of the State Property Fund on the consequences of the privatisation of the "Criminals". And secondly, the faction of Communists, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision of 17 March 2004, proposes to delete article 78 of the amendment, because it has already been defined by the Constitutional Court as illegal, anti-constitutional. Thirdly, we propose to increase the cost to $1 billion to compensate for our citizens' stolen savings, and also to deal with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers 509 and 510 regarding the capital investment and the illegality of the distribution that is taking place today. So once again, the Communist faction will support it as a basis, but it suggests voting in general after hearing the State Property Fund report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Time's up. May I have your attention, Your Honor? The motive is over. I'm telling you again, it's time for motive. Calm down, please. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 4462/UP-1, in agreement. Take it off the vote, we have a draft of the Inadmissibility Order. I'm sorry, please. Your decision is to be unacceptable, please argue with her. About the inadmissibility of the State Budget Act. There she is, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u239	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to pay attention to a few things, and I hope that Parliament will turn out to be a Parliament. This document appeared in your hands this morning at 9 a.m. This is essentially about a new budget. State budget spending is increasing by 8 billion. I'm sure the vast majority of you haven't even been able to read this document. In this regard, I would like to give you some information. The fact that the government is finally increasing the revenue and expenditure of the budget is something that we should be happy about. It's not the only thing that makes me happy. Of the 8 billion dollars of budget spending, only 1, 1 goes to pay. Now pay attention. The budget that we approved, with 64 billion 23 billion, is a payroll fund. So 36 percent in the budget is a payroll fund. Of the 8 billion dollars added to the government, 14 percent had the courage to pay a salary. Next. Two days ago, we rejoiced over the Educational Law. 58th Article of the Law on Education in Action, because there was no money in the government for it. And according to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, no money was found to solve the savings problem. What is more, there is another surprise in education. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the document they gave you. It says, "In cases where the court's decision is to collect the fees paid to the education staff, they should be paid at the expense of the current pay of the education staff." Well, it's cynicism. Dear friends! I want to pay attention to some things. I welcome the entire Ukrainian economy. He's just cheating on government debt. Look at the law they gave you. All the debt owed to exporters on April 1st this year is subject to restructuring for a period of five years. I would particularly like to welcome Ukrainian winegrowers and winegrowers because the government has set its task of destroying the entire area of the Ukrainian economy. Greetings, dear countrymen! Rates of excise duty on wine are increased by this budget by 8 times. Dear MPs, I want you to know that a bottle of wine is becoming more expensive than a bottle of vodka. Someone has set a conscious task of destroying the entire economy. Cynicism is the source of article 109 of the Law. Dear friends, what does it say? Overexpenditures from privatization go to finance commercial structures to finance non-state pension funds. Dear friends, since when should the State Budget provide funds to open shareholders, private companies? Please tell me how to believe in a government figure -- he recorded the revenue of the budget from privatization of 5.2 billion bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u240	Thank you. Time's up. Finish up, please. 30 seconds. Calm down, there's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u241	Dear friends, at the planned figure of 5.2, the government has already received 6 billion. The faction "Our Ukraine" is ready to vote for the budget in the first reading. But I am an MP, and I have the right to legislative initiative. Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't rape Parliament. We will support the Law in the first reading. Allow money for social purposes to be channelled. We're ready to do this. If we have to continue our work in Parliament, let's continue our work for a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u242	I put to the vote the Draft Decree, registration number 4462/UP, author of the People's Deputy Pinzenik on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2004." You took your time, let's vote. Please identify yourself. [[13:53:29]] For-33 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the draft Decree, registration number 4462/CP1, on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Ukraine's 2004 State Budget" with those supplements that are in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers. [[May I have your attention, ……]] Please vote. I'm the draft decision that the government has proposed. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:54:09]] For 255 I made a decision, I called a number. We vote, Your Honor, the verdict. A committee ruling was proposed, and I put it to the vote. If it wasn't accepted, then. Other What's that? I am. Dear colleagues, I have put forward a draft decision that has been made. Dear colleagues, once again, I put to the vote not on a basis, I put to the vote a draft ruling. We always vote on the draft ruling. I understand you're right, but the decision is made. What document? Here's the draft decision, I put it in, I read the number. What a document. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Take your seats, take your seats. Now. Sit down, please. Can you sit down? What do you rape, I put a document to the vote that I violated? I want to say again, the committee's first position has been reported. I put her to the vote. Please sign up for three minutes on the basis of the vote. Please have the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u243	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u244	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have just adopted a decree in which we have made a decision. In any case, however, the law is subject to two or more readings regardless of what is stated in the decree. It cannot be annulled by any order, even in the at-hoc regime, any position recorded in the Rules, and the Rules empower each subject to the legislative initiative to amend the law. So I'm asking you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to now claim that this law was passed only in the first reading. In the first reading, not in two readings, not in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u245	Conovaluk, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I believe that when we consider this issue, we have had enough time to draw attention to the text of the decree itself. And the first point of this regulation is that the adopted draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the State Budget Act in the first reading and in general taking into account the changes and additions defined by this regulation. We voted for it - 255 votes. I think the decision is made, and we have to move forward in the daytime. Thank you. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE That's right, that's right!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u247	Please, Borschevsky, the Communist faction. Please calm down, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u248	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u249	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u250	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I do not think it is necessary to be nervous here, but it is the State budget. And once again, I would like to draw your attention to what was also pressured when the budget was adopted last time. After that, we are now suffering from this budget for six months. This is the result of the fact that, first of all, by force in favour of the interests of individual clans, the state problem is being solved. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I believe that you should now do the right thing: first of all, put to the vote again, which is voted on first reading as a basis for draft changes to the State budget. It is only then that I turn to the Hall for the opportunity to vote in general for this draft budget change. There was no other Supreme Council Rules for you. So I'm asking you to correct this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u251	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, the Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u252	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Trudova Ukraine. I want to support the proposal that my colleague Valérie Ilych Konovaluk just made about the fact that we had draft regulation 4462-p-1 on our hands, which everyone could see and read, paragraph one. And they all voted with their eyes open and with full memory, I hope. And if one speaker here said that the people had fallen on their heads 8 billion dollars, why are we now against giving them those bracelets. That's one thing. And second of all, I don't understand why people who didn't vote for this draft decree are protesting, they have zero. Thus, 255 Ukrainian national deputies clearly expressed their will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u253	Time's up. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again. Attention, everyone, let's calm down. Dear colleagues, he made a report on this question to the First Vice Prime Minister of Finance, he made a proposal, you all heard it. The chairman of the Committee on Budgets also made a proposal to the Committee on Budgets. Then there was a closing word that suggested that a number of additions should be taken into account and that the document should be accepted. I put it to a vote for your reputation. We take any law that proposes to the committee for consideration, either as a basis or as a whole. Calm down, please. Once again, my fellow Members, the bill 4462-u-p-1 is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2004. The first paragraph is written, and you've all read what was voted on: "Adopt the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2004", submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, registered 4462 from 16.06.2004 in the first reading and in general taking into account the changes and additions defined by this regulation. We read and made decisions. Dear colleagues, we have read and made decisions. That's why. Dear colleagues, calm down! I didn't lay the groundwork, we vote in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, don't shout! Dear colleagues, calm down! Wait! Well, have a seat, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] We made a decision, dear colleagues. I understand there's a Rules. We made a decision. There is no Regulations to block the work of the Supreme Council. I ask you to calm down, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, wait! Calm down. During the break, we have to vote in favour of the members of the Valérie Mishur Auditorium. [[Well, then we'll figure it out! Come on, sit down!]] Calm down, please! Calm down! Please turn on Matthew's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, unfortunately, when we consider the issue of the basic law of the State budget, we have what is happening now. You are in grave violation of the Rules by putting to the vote not a draft law, but a draft decree on a law amending the State budget. It's different things. Article 6.5. 4 The Rules clearly state that, following a discussion of the bill, the Supreme Council can make a decision, a decision that will be taken on the basis of the bill. A 6.5. Article 5 says, "If, in the course of the first reading, the Supreme Council recognizes the bill submitted in such a way that it does not require further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u255	Don't scream, please. Don't scream! Please, everything. Everyone, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Turn on the microphone. Turn on Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u256	I repeat that if, in the course of the first reading, the Supreme Council recognizes the bill that has been tabled in such a way that it does not require further work, it may decide to move immediately to its second reading. Who gives us the right to ignore the Supreme Council Regulations in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u257	Thank you. I would just like to ask the head of the Regulatory Committee in all cases to demonstrate this principle. [[h in m]] Dear colleagues, calm down! Have a seat. I will now reconfirm the legitimacy of this vote twice. Please, calm down. I'm betting on a vote of acceptance. In the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2004 State Budget, taking into account changes and additions defined by Decree 4462/up1, with proposals supported by the Government by an additional and budgetary committee. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:07:11]] For 413 Decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of a draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2004 as a whole. Please vote. [[N o M e s s a ……]] I put the vote twice, Your Honor, calm down. [[14:07:37]] For 243 The law is passed. I've put in a draft decision twice. Calm down, please. The head of the Counting Commission, please, Valérie Mishur. Make an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u258	Dear National Deputies! First. I would like to remind all the national deputies that, in accordance with the Supreme Council Order of 24 March 2004, we have returned to the rules of the Rules that existed before the year 2000, and therefore to Article 3.7. 3 The Rules are drafted as follows: "The elections have been appointed and approved as having taken place if secret ballots have received at least 2/3 deputies from their actual majority. So today's vote requires 298 deputies to take the ballots. That's the first one. The other one. I'm going to show you a sample of the ballot that we're going to vote for. We'll vote in places where we always register. The secret ballot paper includes four candidates proposed by the head of the Court of Auditors. In order to determine how to vote, if you vote yes, you just drop this ballot in the box; if you need to vote against someone, you just have to delete either one candidate or all of the candidates. And then we'll figure it out. The vote will begin, literally, in a minute, at 2:00 p.m., 10 minutes, if I don't have any questions, and it will end in 45 minutes. I'm asking you to vote today so we don't vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u259	Please don't break up, Your Honor, we need to re-vote now from the second question. Please don't break up. Dear colleagues! At the same time, we were considering a draft decree on urgent arrangements for the allocation of the hidden incomes of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2004. Please come back, we'll have to vote now. For this reason, respectable colleagues. The committee proposes, he has considered this bill and proposes to accept it as a basis. Since we have considered it together, we must vote. Calm down, vote. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on Urgent Measures for the Assigned Income Distribution of Ukraine’s 2004 State Budget, registration number 5334. I'd like to make a statement. Here comes the vote. Vote, please. [[14:10:55]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 88, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communist factions - 0, SDPU - 0, "Deminicatives of the People" - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 0, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 9, "Soyuz" - 0, NDP, industrials - 3, "Centre" - 0, non-fractional - 2. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Rybikina, Pavel Borisovich, as part of the "Centre" parliamentary group. Dear colleagues, since we have made budgetary decisions, all the other bills that are on this day are regarded as being rejected. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Judging by judges? If there is a good will for you, we can vote. I'm betting on the vote, who's in favour of now considering the appointment of judges. Please vote. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please. [[14:12:18]] For 296 Decision taken. Asadchev from the procedure while Onopenko is on his way. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u260	Thank you. First of all, I was going to say, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you have once sworn to never run a budget like this again. So today we've learned the weight of your word. It's zero. And the others. You have voted since the end of the plenary session. You didn't extend it for 15 minutes. And in 2 hours, you voted for 7 minutes. All these decisions are illegal as will be illegal and the confirmation of judges. There is a procedure and there is a Rules. So I am very much asking you to close the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, let's put the dots above the "and." First of all, I'd like to propose Valery Assadchev to work on the committee and challenge the committee's decision. You're a committee member who's offered one vote to take, I say again, the decision is a committee. The committee voted in favour. That's the first one. And the second. The Supreme Council voted to consider the issue of judges now. And the third. If there is a need and insists on a bill that has just not found support, I will put it to the vote again so that we can have mutual respect. Please. Well, the Supreme Council voted. Please report to Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u262	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. Let me announce the committee's decision. The Supreme Council's projects have been brought to your attention by about 80 judges to the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeal, the local courts. I am grateful that the Supreme Council is about time to consider these candidates, since many of them are not just a month away from working for six months because of the expiration of their term of office. Therefore, you are invited to draft Decree 5599 to elect judges on an indefinite basis: to the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Novikov Roman Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv region of Cherkasov Volodymyr Mikolayovic; The Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Kuzm Roman Mikolaiovich, Palamarczuk Galin Vasilovna; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Zagorujk Vitali Volodimirovic; the local Kovell Regional Court of Volin County of Oxentuk Vasil Nikiforovich; the local Nicolel Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Novikov Olen Viktorovna; the local Dobropil District Court of the Donetsk Region of Andrew Pavel Fedorovich; the local Shakhtar District Court of the Donetsk district of Babenko Petr Mihajlovich; the local Guliapil district court of the district of Pinchuk Nina Vasilovna; the local Nomikolayi district court of the Zaporozhye district of Riženko Anatolia Grigorovič; the local Polosov District Court of the district of Matvienka Mikola Andryovich; the local Yellow District Court of Zaporozhye Strati Eugenia Volodymyrna; the local Zaporozhye District Court of Zaporozhye Didenko Ninel Borisovna;
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u263	By Didenko? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u264	The local Shevchenkov district court of Zaporozhye city of Surkov Valentina Petrovna; the local Kalu District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Greenwich Mikol Antonovich; the local Colombian District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Petkovsky Vladimir Ivanovich; the local Brovarsky District Court of Kiev, Slave Mikola Dmitrovic; the local Fastov Regional Court of Kyiv district of Panasuk Stepan Petrovich; the local Sambir Regional Court of the Lviv Region of Karnasevich Hanna Ivanovna; the local Wozniesen Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Zakutsk Vladimir Ivanovich; The local Ternopil Regional Court of Ternopil district of Begrejak Fedor Grigorovitch and Schmidt Vladimir Ivanovich. Question only of Didenko Ninel Borisovni, I understand, the Zaporozhye County Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, let's finish the question, you'll get a line. Dear colleagues, with the exception of the name Didenko Ninelle Borisovna, I put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5599 on the election of judges. Registration number 5599. Please vote. At the end of the question, I see. [[14:17:05]] For 365 Decision taken. Didenko, please go to the microphone. Where's Didenko? Upstairs, please. Yuri Carmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u266	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Vassil Vasilovich, after considering this matter on the committee, although I am a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, I am only 10. On the 10th, he's got a very serious complaint, he needs it to be thoroughly tested. She's saying, in particular, I don't want to hear all of these facts that are here right now, but the thing is, 10 years has been going on since the year 94. Next. The secretary of this court, Fedin and Catherine Vasilovna, are called to criminal responsibility for serious abuse. The secretary was serving the judge. Next. Seven years was not the case for the charge of Bobil S. under article 86. to the cassation plant. He was four years old and writes that his cause was not the cause of cassation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u267	Please, Didenko to the microphone. Your explanations are brief and reasoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u268	In fact, I'm being criminalized by the secretary of the Fedin administration, but I'm also working as head of the factory district court. That's why she committed the crime, and she's being held accountable, and she's going to be brought to justice. This is the first time. I've never considered Bobil's case. Indeed, another judge considered the matter. And the third. Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u269	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, since Yuri Anatoliyovich has come up with this complaint literally just before this vote, I think we need to study and check carefully and then we can make Judge Didenko's candidacy at the end of June-month and I think we'll make an objective decision. So the proposal is to postpone her consideration of the candidacy for the next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u271	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u272	Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye Dear colleagues, Judge Didenko, this is the Zadrovsky district, number 79, from which I am elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy. No claims, no comments. There is no simple situation in the middle of the court, there are certainly some contradictions, but there were never any claims to it. If we continue to work that there is a paper coming before the vote, and then we break a man's fate, it will be wrong, it's not an approach, that's all, by the lawyer, with the legal education of a respected colleague who sounded that letter. It would either have to be checked for seven days, or not to be taken to the session room. I ask you to support this candidacy and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, since there are two points of view, I would like to put you to a vote: the election of Judge Didenko Ninel Borisovna. Please vote. [[14:21:00]] For 318 Decision taken. Please, after the next decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u274	Thank you. Draft decision 5599-1, proposed to elect judges to the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Rusnak Allu Pilipevna; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv District of Berki Oksan Yulianivna; The Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Starowot Irina Pilpovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyrovograd district of Heisuk Alexander Vasilovich, Suržik Mikolaajovic; The Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Žil Igor Edouardovich, Onachenko Larissa Ivanovna, Sergey Yakovitch; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Polosenko Vasil Stepanović; the Military Court of Appeal of the South Region of Slobodan Igor Kostinović; the local Mogilov-Podil Regional Court of the Winnitsk Region of Kapacin Love Volodymyrna; the local Old Town District Court of Vinnice Denishenko Tamaru Alexandrovna; the local Luboml district court of the Volin district of Doros Petr Ivanovich; The local Roscen district court of the Volin district of Kiriluk Valentina Fedorovna; the local Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Lithuania Raisa Andriyevna; The local Yellow District Court of the Horn of Kreeb Dnipropetrov region of Vodopyanova Sergio Mikolaiovich; the local Kramator City Court of the Donetsk district of Klimov Vladimir Viktorovich. Malinsky District Court of Žitomir district of Zabrodsky Mikhail Ivanovich The People’s District Court of the Gitomir district of Hauk Sergio Mikolaiovich. Zidomir District Court of Condratuk Anatoly Mikolayovich Volovacki District Court of Zakarpatsk Oksana Antonovna The Yellow District Court of Zaporozhye Scolziva Natalia Georgieva The Slavotic city court of the Kyiv district of Malishenko Tetjana Alexiyevna The Yavorów Paradise of the Lviv region of Tesla Bogdan Ivanovich Railway ride of the city of Lvov Grychuk Volodymyr Alexanderovich The Sauran Paradise of the Odessa region of Borodija Vitali Istafiewich. The Kovpak Basud of Sum Taran Svetlana Andriyevna and Sapovala Mikola Mikhailovich Ternopil’s Coastal Reysud of Krisik Miroslav Jaroslavovich The Cossack Paradise of Ternopil district of Kretzel Ivanovich. The Archduke Reich of Ternopil district of Kuzmenko, Irina Alexandrovna. Provincial District Court of Kharkiv Lazuk Sergija Volodymirovich. Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Nikolaynko Irina Viktorovna The Lenin district court of Harkova Grimailo Angelika Mikhailovna Moscow District Court of Kharkiv Pogasy Olga Fedorovna Orjonikidziv's Rajsud of Harkov Černjak Viktor Grigorovich. And Ordjonikidziv, District Court of Harkov Sarkissian, Olen Anatoliyevna. The local Zurupinian Paradise of the Hersonian region of Gorskov Vyačeslav Mikolaiovich. The Trans-Provosian Paradise of Chercas, Kolod Larissa Dmitrovna. Darnicki District Court of Kiev Fritz Tetjana Viktorovna And the local Holy Reasud of Kyiv Banduru, Ivan Stepanovich. There were no complaints about these candidates. There are all the characteristics, nice indicators. Therefore, the committee proposes to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u275	Turk, microphone, please. Well, there's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u276	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, your committee is engaged in a very serious, responsible activity. And it is up to him not to have examples like in the Shevchenkov Court of Kiev, when a citizen, I can't even call him a judge, a Shostak citizen instead of a judicial activity is engaged in torture and abuse of sick people who are not guilty of anything. I'm asking you, Vasil Vasilovich, we don't have one of those candidates who's been offered these six today. And what about guys like Shastak planning to do a committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u277	Dear Valentin Aleksandrovich! Dear colleagues! We've looked at a committee of more than a few dozen national deputies. From various factions regarding the illegal detention and arrest of Balura's citizen. The committee gave a principled assessment of these events when a person from the cardiology department, when there are findings of academics, scientists, leading cardiologists are arrested, changed their subscription to non-departure and arrest, and I think that this assessment of the committee is extremely principled. On the basis of this decision, on the basis of the committee's appeal as a member of the High Council of Justice, I appealed to the High Council of Justice, but for gross violation of the current legislation, for falsifying documents from such a judge, Shastak must be dismissed. I don't think there are any judges in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u278	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich, let's have a name. If you notice, the mosquito, please name it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u279	And there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u280	I can see it, I can see it. The mosquito microphone, please. By name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u281	By the name of Kodolov last time, Vasil Vasilovich, we were talking about a test. I got an interim response, and now I don't hear his last name. What was the result of this consideration?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u282	Here comes the check. It's probably going to be 23-24.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u283	School, please, last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u284	Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's not about names. It's a principle. I just want to emphasize once again that I think everyone in this room deserves judges to be supported. Still, I don’t think a lunch break would be worth cutting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u285	Thank you. That was the decision of the Supreme Council. I closed the session, you insisted on putting it to a vote. Listen, please, what's going on in the Supreme Council? I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect judges. [[Registration number 5599-1]] Please vote. [[14:27:30.]] For 371 Head. Z-370. Decision taken. Unit 5599-2. Two more decisions we need to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u286	Suggested selection without due date to the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Lviv Bogdan Yuriovich; to the Žitomir Farm Court of Appeal, Holoby Galina Kirilowna, Stypansk Eugenia Antonovna; The Kyiv Court of Appeal, Grigorovich Alexander Mikhailovich; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Alexander Mikolaiovich; Mark Roman Ivanovich of the Lviv Economic Court of Appeal; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal, Istomina Olen Arkadyevna; the Economic Court of the winery of the local district of Matvijczuk Vasil Vasilovich; the local court of the Wallin district of Synicin Larissa Mikhailnovna; the local court of the Zakarpatsk district of Jakimchuk Lilyu Mikolayevna; the local court of the Zaporozhye district of Germany, Alexander Ivanovich; the local courts of the Ivano-Frankiv district of Shelest Svetlana Bogdanovna; Local Economic Court of the Odessa Region of Vladimirenko Svetlana Vejacheslavovna, Green Hennadia Mikolaiovich; the local court of the Poltava district of Pushka Igor Ivanovich. No comments were made on these nominations to the committee. The committee unanimously supports them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u287	I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Decree registration number 5599-2 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[14:29:09]] For 365 Decision taken. Draft Decree No. 5628 is submitted for consideration. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u288	The committee considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Justice for the high office of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the three candidates Patrick Mikol Vasilovic, Pošvu Bogdan Mikolaiovich, Fedchenka Alexandr Stepanović. The candidatures were specifically discussed on the committee. There are the highest qualifications, integrity and morality of these candidates. Please support the submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u289	I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 5628. Please vote. [[14:30:10]] For 388 Decision taken. Let us welcome the newly elected courts and wish to serve the law faithfully. Dear colleagues, the vote on the members of the Court of Auditors will continue until 15 hours for the decision of the Counting Commission. Everyone, please take a vote. Please, it's Assadchev's microphone. Then Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u290	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am deeply convinced that there will not always be lawlessness in this room, as you are now doing. You've just established all the judges you've chosen, they're not elected legitimately. And believe me, there will be time and things that will be different on this basis. And the other Supreme Council will confirm that they are not elected legitimately. So please don't bring up the judges. Let us at least vote again after lunch and confirm this decision. Because believe it's the fate of a lot of people, and people are just going to get hurt because they're assigned forever, and you're not the Head here forever. And that's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-17-m0.u291	The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I'd like to ask your honourable colleagues to take part in the vote.
