ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:02:23]] Registered -438 There were 438 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, our esteemed voters, our radio listeners, today we are holding a meeting on the eve of June 28. You know, June 28th is the day of the Constitution of Ukraine. So allow me, on your behalf, to welcome you as well, especially those who in 1996 had a bearing on the adoption of the Constitution in this session hall, and to welcome all those citizens who hope and hope that this Constitution will defend their interests and desire the efforts of our Parliament to make such changes to the basic law of the Constitution that would actually serve the interests of our Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Skomarovski Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. Let us sincerely welcome him on that date and wish him creative inspiration and success in the law - making work. Let me make an announcement to introduce you. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kisse Anton Ivanovich, is a member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. [[united]] [[Applause]] Another announcement. Relevant to Articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the protocol for the meeting of the Ukrainian People’s Agrarian Party of the People’s Republic of Ukraine of June 23, 2004, that Sergio Pavlovich, the authorized representative of this faction, has also been elected. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes with you to announce applications, requests, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. People's deputies are invited to sign up for statements, messages, and suggestions. In the meantime, I'll call in the MP's questions. Yes, please show me a list on the board that has been signed up to have the national MPs prepare, while I will introduce you to the MP's questions. Just 30 minutes for requests and applications. As we agreed with you, at your suggestion, I will first inform you of the operational information on the coming of the parliamentary requests that I will now announce. So you asked me to advertise in factions and groups. Today, we have 70 requests from the people's deputies: from the faction "Our Ukraine" -- 33 requests, from the faction of the Communists -- 14, the factions "Ukraine" -- 2, the factions of the SDPU -- there is no one, the People's Initiatives and the People's Government -- 2, the factions of the political party "Trudova Ukraine" -- 7, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party of Ukraine -- 1, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko -- three, the group "Union" -- there is not today, the faction of the NDP and the industrialists and entrepreneurs -- 3, the group "Centre - 1, the non-fractional - 1. So, as I said before, 70 requests were made by the national MPs. I'll introduce you to them. A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Vladimir YAVORlSKI to the President of Ukraine, commander - in - command of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for a hasty and thoughtless decision to evict John Bokhon from his military residence, resulting in the demolition of the entrance exams of the aboriginals to a school military facility, many of which are orphans, blacks, and children whose parents died in service. As this MP's request to the President of Ukraine, I ask that you determine with his support. [[10:07:31]] For-100 The decision is not taken. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the negative impact of the Lužan experimental water supply on the quality of water in the wells of residents of the villages of the Kitzman region of the Chernivecki region. Ms SLABENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the appeal of the residents of the town of Vladimir Volinsky to pension insurance for pensioners. Michael BAUERA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the pipeline of the Watchtower - Deep Deep region of the Chernivets region. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social protection of workers of assisted agriculture of the state-owned specialised enterprise Čornobilska AES, the village of Nedancichi in the region of Chernigiv. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding Ukraine’s membership in the National Authority of the International Aviation Committee. Michael BAUERA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a gas pipeline to the villages of the Novoselicke region of Cherniewec. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Unjustified Price Increases by the Department of State Auto-Inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for receiving certificates of completion of driving courses. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine entitled “About the 100th anniversary of the birth of the great humanist writer Mikli Ostrovsky” in part of the financing of the only island museum in the city of Shepetovka in Ukraine. [[BURJAK, NOVAK, OLUIKO]] Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the baseless delay in sending a letter to the Council of Europe on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation that took place with the residents of House No. 8 on the street of Brian in the city of Jenakiyeva. Alexander KOSIANK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for immediate work at the landfills of the former Transnistrian chemical plant in Dniprojnsk. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the incomplete investigation of the situation and the unwarranted response by the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the situation that took place during the privatisation of the Ternopilsk Council of the Ternopil region and its subsequent transfer to the administration of Minoswita. Mr. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-payment of the President's scholarships to the prominent information sector. Mr Polanczych to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the non-reimbursement of the village's costs for the actual construction of socio-cultural objects of the Open Shareholder Society “Ternopillagrospecsmontage”. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the language legislation of the National Academy of Law, Jaroslav Wisely, in the city of Kharkiv. Mr. Stephen Bulby and Mr. Mikaly ROJKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the issue of the transfer of the entire property complex of the military town No. 12 of the city of Priluca of Chernigiv region. MIKOLI KULČINSKI to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the villages of the Globin district of Poltava. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the reform of the technical regulation system in Ukraine in connection with Ukraine's planned introduction to the World Trade Organization. [[JUGNOVIC, KALINCHUK, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister regarding the non-admission of the destruction of the fish farm “Bluefield” by the Killian District State Administration of the Odessa Region. Mr. Vladimir BONDAR to the Prime Minister, Attorney General, on the verification of the financing and use of funds by medical institutions of the Ukrainian Academy of Medical Sciences. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister regarding the granting of the status of a mountain settlement in Dragovo, the district of Zakarpat. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija Samoplavski to the Prime Minister for the identification of sources of funding for the current and capital repair of the housing fund of industrial enterprises - bankruptcys transferred to the Kostopil City Council of the Plains Region by the approval of the Supreme Court of Justice of Ukraine. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Prime Minister for his dissatisfaction with the reply of the Ministry of Health to the parliamentary request for illegal administrative and security actions of the State Medical University against youth organizations, the creation of illegal obstacles to the dissemination of information, the use of pneumatic weapons and physical force and the involvement of responsible persons. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the protection of the interests of the labour team of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. Gennady GORLOVA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget for the provision of benefits to veterans of war, labour and military service. Roman TKAČA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco to address the issue of compensation for material damage caused by illegal repression, rehabilitation and their families. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko regarding the transfer of a company of state-owned enterprises to the municipal property of the city of Cherkasa. Mr Tomenka to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on improper execution by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of the Supreme Council on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the birth of the great scientist Michael Maximovich.” Mr. Voroshilov, representatives of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, told Mr. Voroshilov of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the enforcement of Ukrainian law enforcement by the employees of the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Chernigiv area of the current Ukrainian legislation when arrested and detained by a citizen of Drin. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the decision of the Vrokhtian Village Council of the Ivano-Frankov Region on the transfer and return of land to the property of a legitimate user. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine has been involved in a thorough verification of the origin of the funds for which the public stock package of the Open Shareholder Society was purchased “Croat Mine and Metallurgical Combined “Cruvoristal” and compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime”. Ms. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the violation of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Pechersky and Dniprovi Department of State Executive Services in Kiev. Mikhayla POLANČIČIČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the charges of the agricredit association “Senatek” in fraud and the acquisition of the investor’s funds. Alexia BABURIN and Yuri ARTEMENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal actions of law enforcement officials in relation to the limited liability association “Liberty-Marcet” and the closed shareholders association “Discont-2000”. Bogdan Kostinjuk and Roman TWAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal use of public media for the conduct of the pre-election campaign by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the disconnection in the cable networks of the Donetsk region of the “5 channel”. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Education of Ukraine, on the investigation of circumstances leading to the suicide of Atamánuk, a student of the Faculty of Law at the University of Prikarpat. Igora TARASJUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legal evaluation of the activities of the head of the Dolin Rural Council of the Terepil region. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to comply with the decisions of the Odessa local courts regarding violations of Ukrainian legislation by entertainment establishments using acoustic equipment. [[PAVLE, RESNIK, SCHOOL, COWDER]] ANALYSIS to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the objectivity of the investigation of individual criminal cases by the Hersonian authorities. Georgia KRUCHKOVA and Maria MARKUSH to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, Head of the High Council of Justice, on the further examination of the arguments presented in the collective statement of the owners of the former agricultural production cooperative Teresva, a village of the town type Tereswa in the region of Zacarpathia. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights for the abuse and misconduct of police officers of the city of Luben Poltava district regarding the sons of a citizen of Stepanova. John YVANCHO to the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Ukraine’s State Tax Administration, for creating a technological hazard of activity for residents of the town of Beregov Zacarpathia. Vassila, Jr., to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the organization of the production of wheelchairs. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for illegal deportation from the territory of Belarus on June 21, 2004, Ukrainian citizen, journalist of the opposition newspaper “Time” Michael Podolak. [[LUKYANKO, MATVIENKO, CITCHNIK, MICHAEL]] Viacheslava KYRILENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the attack by the police on the supporters of the Viktor Yushchenka block “Our Ukraine”, the resident of Herson Korotchuk and the task of his bodily injury. Roman TAKAČA to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine in connection with the failure to resolve the issue of housing an officer in the Struk Reserve. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the provision of social assistance to the longtime family of Kushchenko, the village of Shevchenkov in the Odessa region. Vladimir NICHIPREK to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the misconduct of employees of the private enterprise of the Yaltin Legal Agency “Right-Expert” at the expert evaluation of cars. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine on raising the level of cooperation of the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine with the Kirovograd repair and mechanical plant called Taratuti. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of Ukrainian law by employees of the Obolon District Department of Internal Affairs of Kiev. National MPs' groups to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for failure to perform their duties as officials of the Odessa State Health and Epidemiology Service. [[PAVLE, RESNIK, SCHOOL, COWDER]] Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding the improper maintenance of sociocultural facilities for railways, transportations, and others in the Herson - Armenian area. Anatoly MATVIENKA to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine concerning the closure of the name John Boden by the Kyiv military plane. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the enforcement of the decision to compensate for material and moral damage to the village of Kozelščina in the region of Poltava. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on measures for socio-economic protection of the population that resides around the territory of the Zaporez nuclear power plant. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine on the violation of current legislation and journalistic ethics in the information space of the Carpathians. Vasila Gladys, head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the Financing of the Land Law Enforcement Package. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the violation by the Lenin District Court of the city of Kirovgrad and the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd District of Cassational Complaints of Matthew. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the head of the Cherka District State Administration for the violation of the legal rights of residents of a hostel on 20 Vernigori Street in Cherkasa by the local authorities. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities on the issue of the supply of building 21 on the street of September 23, the city of Poltava. Mr. Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the misconduct of employees of the private enterprise of the Yaltin Legal Agency “Right-Expert” in the expert assessment of cars and the failure to take a decision on this matter by the Examination Commission of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime under the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the crime of crime, the criminalization of the first deputy chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region of Skiba for the smuggling of cars, the use of them for their own purposes and the release of them from internal affairs. John YVANCHO to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities concerning the unsatisfied living conditions of the tenants of the large apartment buildings of the village of Teresvo Zakarta district. Boris SLEEP to the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding unjustified tax pressure on the closed shareholding company “Orlan”. Jury CARMAZINA to the Odessa City Head, prosecutor of Odessa City, head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Odessa Region of Odessa, on the use of illegal traffic in the Odessa Beach District, which causes mass violations of the law, rights and interests of the restees and creates a danger of movement. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the reply of the Attorney General's Office to the parliamentary question about the situation that has arisen around the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. Leonida THANJUKA to the Kyiv Public Prosecutor’s Office for Financial Offences by the leadership of the Ukrainian State Circus Company. Yes, we have eight minutes left. So let's take 15 for requests and messages, information from the national MPs. Please, 15 minutes. Bauer. Get ready for Uncle. There's no Bauer? Uncle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u3	Valérie, get up and tell me you're you. Well, that's a farce. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! On Wednesday, under the whistle of opposition, most and two of the left factions voted on the draft constitutional changes. In this room, it's clear to all of you, and to the question of plundering the constitution into the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution, you might not be able to go back in this room. But people are waiting for explanations. And that's why this speech is for the electorate, for the people, because we can't explain to people the position of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, and hopefully I'll explain our Ukraine's position on the media controlled by Medvedchuk, and we can't, we can't, we can't. So, honourable citizens, you know that today people trust in power is zero, but power is clinging to power. First of all, the government is trying to rob everything, what is left is being done by the government of Yanukovich, a great “deriban”, and just as Ukraine was a great ruin after the other elections of Kuchma, when it saved the situation in Ukraine, the government of Yushchenka-Timishenko, and now everything is privatising, everything is being plundered for nothing. But I'm explaining, honourable citizens, that Kuchma wants to remain in power and politically, and that's how he was offered a choice to elect the President. It didn't work, the opposition wouldn't allow it. And such constitutional changes are now being proposed that unlimited powers be given to the Prime Minister, who should be chosen by the parliament today. And no doubt respectable citizens would have been chosen Kuchma by the premier with unlimited authority. And it doesn't matter, as the future dictator of Ukraine would call it, whether he would be called President or called Prime Minister, the main thing is that he would be Kuchma. But we want to change power. We want to see normal Ukraine as a normal state. And that's why we, the right opposition, are being ridden on television. The face of today's television, the face of Jangirov, is the face of today's power. And that's why on our block, on the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, as the most consistent, is doing such provocative, endless work. You know, there's been a new line of completely false, groundless accusation against Julia Timoshenko. But, honourable citizens, we are also in favour of constitutional reform. Reform must be done, but it must be done by authority to which people will be trusted. We need to limit the President's authority, but that's what the power to win the election has to do. It should form a government, but after the elections on a proportional system, after the elections in 2006. Dear citizens, we want to assure you that we will stand to the end, there will be necessary changes, but how we choose Kushma as Ukraine will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u4	Please, Bauer. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u5	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In view of the rapid deterioration in the quality of the pedagogical staff, their aging, practically full feminization, should be followed by extraordinary measures. There is a real threat that Ukrainian schools will not meet the challenge of reforming education at the level of modern standards. In a number of areas, there is an annual increase in the number of vacancies of teaching staff, which significantly reduces the ability not only to receive quality education but also causes unequal, discriminatory conditions under the admission of higher education institutions. Because of the lack of housing, low wages, problems with arrival, young professionals don't go to school, the teaching profession has lost any appeal. Thanks to God, yesterday we voted in favour of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Pedagogical Education Workers, provided for in article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine. Further, in order to remedy the situation, the government has to make it a cost of allocating funds to ensure that article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act is implemented in full in 2005. The first part of this article discusses the need for wage earners to be equal to the average wage in the industry. Over seven years of implementation of this article is delayed, motivated by the lack of funds in the country. I think that this approach to budgeting is offensive to the teacher, diminishing his status. I think that the Supreme Council of this call should initiate the full implementation of article 57 and thus repay the students for their tireless work. Please consider my statement a parliamentary request to the government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u6	Yes, Vernigora. I can't see. Garmash. None. Turkinov passes the word Lukyanenko. He's behind him, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head! Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Honourable MPs and honourable voters, and repressive Ukraine! Since 1994, in the Supreme Council, I have tried to improve or give new texts to the law on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in a country approved on April 17, 1991. We haven't been able to do that in 10 years. Thus, on 21.06.2004, a public hearing took place in Kiev on the Ukrainian Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, attended by the Council of the Ukrainian Rights Organizations, the Kharkiv Law Protection Group, members of the International Society of the Voronize and St. Petersburg, the head of the Project on Rehabilitation of the Jan Raczynski of Moscow, representatives of the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of State, the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Office, archiving institutions, the All-Ukrainian Society of Politicians and Repressives, representatives of the Commission for the Renewal of the Rights of the Rehabilitation, the Kyiv Regional Society of the Name of Vasil Stus, scientists of the National Academy of Sciences and National Deputees of Ukraine, the Heads of the Commission for the Rehabilitation of the Human Rights of the University of Luminic University. The participants of the hearing note: The Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine was approved until Ukraine was declared an independent state. 17.04 In 1991. Over the past 13 years, the political status of Ukraine has changed, socio-political conditions have changed, and this law is clearly obsolete. First. He just couldn't predict much. It's different. It ran counter to the Ukrainian State's normative base in the area of social protection of citizens. Third. It discredits Ukrainian citizens against the rehabilitated citizens of the Russian Federation and other states of the former republics of the Soviet Union. Therefore, participants in the hearings in view of the above address the Supreme Council of Ukraine with great concern to consider in the near future drafts of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine and, first, to stop the political discrimination of fighters for Ukraine’s independence and to recognize their merits before Ukraine. The other one. To put an end to the economic discrimination of those fighting for the will of the Fatherland and to grant them pensions at the level of veteran pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, Nikolainka. Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u9	asked the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u10	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honorable citizens, national MPs, Adam Ivanovich. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine authorized me to inform the public about the situation in the educational field. That's what my committee colleague Michael Bauer was talking about. In 1996, we were passed the Education Act, which provided for a powerful social protection of science and teaching workers, teachers. But Leonid Kuchma's governments, changing each other, ignored article 57 of the Education Act and created a crisis in education. They didn't pay for their internship payments in 1997-1999, they didn't have medical fees, they didn't have premiums, they didn't have average wages, they didn't have industry. Since 2000, these standards in the budget have begun to stop, contrary to the Law. Only in 2003 did the above - mentioned payments begin to pay. But debt to the education community has accumulated and is now more than 4.1 billion bracelets. More than 100,000 lawsuits. Throughout Ukraine, teachers, say, in Crimea, Lviv, Herson, Kirovograd, other regions, Zaporozhye, Žitomiri, testify that teachers, educators do not agree. We had to solve this problem. Yesterday you and I adopted the Law, which recognizes these debts as a state and foresees his return to teachers from January 1st of the following year. In the Budget Resolution, we were obliged yesterday to do so by the government. However, there is today, honourable national MPs, a real threat to the passage of the bill by the President of the Government. I'm addressing the leaders of the political parties today, the factions, all the national MPs, and I'm also addressing the educators on behalf of our Socialist Party, the teachers, I'm calling on the government not to let the President of this law promise. We need to send a letter of appeal, work with the MPs so that it doesn't happen. Socialists also insist that in 2005 at least 10 percent of the gross domestic product should be allocated to education, that children should be reinvigorated in schools and vocational schools, that pension laws should be amended, that special increases should be introduced so that the teacher’s pension is not the same as today. Because he's not gonna make more than 150 bucks today. By the way, it also applies to cultural workers, doctors, agriculture, and so forth. Support young teachers. Introduce five - salary lifts for them, count the trainee’s length to the trainee, and restore the class’s fees. Eighteen - hour workload for elementary - school teachers and 30 - hour preschool teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u11	Please, Kravchenko gives the word to the Police. Yes, please, Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Just recently in this room, we have adopted a decree with you on the 85th anniversary of LCSMU and the strengthening of the role of young social organizations in the educational work with young people. Today, on behalf of the Central Committee of the Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine, I wish to warmly congratulate all of you, the whole of Ukraine, on this holiday, the celebration of many generations of our people, the celebration of youth. The name of the Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine is linked to all the achievements and victories of our country. With that name, a young guard hero was killed. It has always been remembered by millions of people who are working actively today for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Many of you also have a cosmopolitan biography. And I'm sure you'll remember the years you lived in comsomol as the best years of your life. Today, the restored Lenin Commodore of Ukraine is one of the largest youth organizations in our country. We are honored to bear the signs of the struggle for the interests of young people for a decent life. The main thing for us is to raise the political awareness of young people, to organize our peers to work together to defend their rights. Komsomol organizations throughout Ukraine are conducting actions to protect the fundamental social rights of young people, promoting their creative development, and applying new forms of work. So on June 19th, I think the second all-Ukrainian social graffiti festival took place in Kiev. We invite everyone on the floor, Lukjanovska Street, to see the wonderful works of creative youth. I don't think you can stay indifferent. The protection of the values of our history is of great importance to us. On 21 June, therefore, the Ministry of Science and Education, together with the Organization of Ukrainian Veterans, took the initiative to promote the objective coverage of our history and, above all, the true coverage of the events of the Great Homeland War. In these textbooks, yesterday's bandits became heroes, and truly heroes have been erased from history. And we state that we will not allow our history to be rewritten and rewritten. Dear colleagues, I invite everyone whose heart has not been affected by the Komsomol Youth Fire, today, 25 June, the Young Audience Theatre, which is on Lipsky Street, 15/17, is about the Arsenal Metro, a solemn theatre programme dedicated to the Commosomol Jubilee, which will be held today, I recall at 1 p.m. Leipzig, 15/17. Once again, congratulations to all of you on your holiday, since the birth of the Lenin Communist Union for Youth and Youth Day. In our opinion. It is deeply symbolic that these two festivals go together. This means the future of young people in comsomol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u13	The National MP, Kirilenko, asks that he be given the floor in connection with his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request that came from the Ministry of Health. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u14	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, on May 21, at the Zaporozhye State Medical Institute, there was an extraordinary adventure that almost led to tragic consequences: the guards of this university, with the active participation of the Rector of Koleznik and the group of prophets of Umanski, Island, and Dudnik, used physical force to help young people and girls who spread printed products near the university. The reference of youth organizations to article 34 of the Constitution made no impression on the Rector or on protection. On the contrary, one of the guards used even more brutal force to attack the citizen of Dmitry with a pneumatic pistol, and then he shot a young man who was already running away in the back. These events received considerable resonance both in Zaporozhye and outside the city. So on June 4, I was asked by the Ministry of Health, Andrija Podejeva. I asked the minister to identify the security officers who had unjustifiably applied weapons to Ukrainian citizens and to take steps to hold them accountable, as well as to consider the actions of the Rector who put the lives and health of the citizens at risk. However, not only did the minister of health fail to answer in essence but he also openly sided with the wrongdoers. What is more, Mr. Podaev allowed himself to engage in outright misdeeds. Thus, the information materials directly related to the rights and interests of students, scholarships, the teaching process, and so forth, the minister unjustifiably called the cards of an anti - state character and questionable printed product, as well as the explicit claim that these materials demean the honour and dignity of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the employees of the higher school. I will allow myself to quote just three points from this card. These are the demands of young people who have distributed materials: "Retired pensioners, military teachers and teachers cancel government taxes on housing, medicines, books and the press. The scholarship is not less than 180 grevens, the abolition of the 20 per cent residence tax, etc." In the original language, as distributed in Zaporozhye. So the student's social demands are distorted by the minister and they're accused of anti-government agitation. In addition, the minister's response makes it plain that the actions of young activists have aroused resentment in some and some 530 foreign students, which is already an outright abuse, because there has been no appeal from foreign students about the actions of activists. Therefore, I believe that such answers do not withstand any criticism; they demean the honour and dignity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the Minister of Defense of Podejev again. And I'm paying attention to all of you, honourable colleagues, regardless of party and factional affiliation, that the quality of the answer to the questions that we are now being asked is simple discounts. And that's what we need to respond to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the realization of today's order of the day. There is a draft Ukrainian Code of Economic and Procedural Procedure. Registration numbers: 4157, 4157-1, 4157-2. According to Bill 4157, the first deputy to the Committee on Legal Policy, Onischuk Mikola Vasilovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u16	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u17	Mikola Vasilovich, what: five minutes or three?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u18	Adam Ivanovich, there is one procedural proposition. Since there are three bills, there is an agreement between the authors, or submitting entities, to make one report on all three drafts, for they are close enough to avoid wasting time. This question is settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u19	And this coordinated report is to be made by a representative of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u20	And this agreed report is to be done by Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, who is behind the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u21	Oh, so you're from all three projects?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u23	Then, please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u24	Thank you. Until 10:00. I must have done it a little earlier. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Today, a fairly important bill has been put before Parliament -- three drafts of the Law on the New Code of Economic Procedure. You know very well that now, among the tasks of the current session and in general the session of Parliament of this convening is the task of essentially carrying out the first national legal reform. The new Civil Procedure Code has already been adopted, and the second reading of the Administrative Procedure Code will be considered. And today you have a new Code of Economic Procedure. This approach of the Ukrainian Parliament to legislation in this area is based on reforming the force system and now it is necessary to bring new procedural legislation under this updated judicial system. [[I'm referring to the institution of appeal, cassation.]] As far as the Code of Procedure is concerned, as you have already pointed out, the government, and at the initiative of the people's deputies, in particular the authors' teams led by Oneichuk and Musiak, have introduced three versions of this bill. I'm going to point out that last time a government bill came in, by the way, it was already filed and registered in Parliament after we approved the Civil Procedure Code in second reading, and he's asked himself most of the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code that we've been working on. The development of a new procedural code of Ukraine is primarily called for the implementation of national legislation in line with the Council of Europe standards on judicial protection. Secondly, the new Economic and Procedural Law is aimed at aligning with the Civil Procedural Law with the basic issues of the judiciary and, by the way, the subject of the harmonization of procedural laws is the cornerstone of the great work that we are doing with regard to the reform of procedural legislation. Equally important factors that call for the adoption of a new code are the need to distinguish between the powers of the general and domestic courts to deal with matters of clear reflection of the role and authority of the Master Court in the context of market transformations in our country with substantial reform of material legislation. Because today Ukraine is operating under the conditions of a new civil and economic code, and under these conditions it is necessary to bring it into conformity and process, or procedural law, that essentially serves them. The Master's Procedural Code project, by the way. Three projects are based on identical approaches to basic institutions of procedural law with the Civil Procedural Code. I've already mentioned that the topic of unification is the key to building these new procedural laws. In addition, these basic novels should be depicted as new designs of the Master’s Procedural Law. First. The jurisdiction of domestic courts has been extended, which is determined not only by the subject matter of the law but also by the content of the issue. In particular, it is suggested that a person who is not an entrepreneur should take matters into his household’s jurisdiction. Dear colleagues, please pay attention to this. In addition to entrepreneurs, business entities, legal entities, and individuals from the so - called “special competence ” are also entitled to appeal to the courts. That is, when it comes to bankruptcy, privatization, the creation and elimination of legal axes. What's the problem? You are all participants and witnesses to the fact that privatization processes are quite often stopped at the expense that a natural person submits separately to cases that are dealt with in domestic courts when the results of the competition are challenged. submits an application to the General Court, and in this way all privatisation proceedings are suspended. The point is that these cases have been dealt with in one court and that citizens have the right to also appeal to the court where the bankruptcy proceedings have been violated, in particular, or the privatisation proceedings have been challenged. So this is the position that is being strengthened in all three bills, and there are lawyers who are preparing this document, they're sharing their approaches. The following novelty of these draft laws refers to the provision of evidence, respectable colleagues, and the protection of the applicant’s property interests in filing a lawsuit. What is it? As usual, the right to provide evidence arises only when the subject has applied to the court and has asked the court to ensure the case. The new Procedural Code provides for the possibility to appeal to the court with such a request for a petition, but with one requirement that the subject of the appeal should ensure that the request is made in a manner that would thus prevent the risks that arise if the application is not made. The drafts of the new Code of the Master contain a new chapter: "The Order of the Lord's Court", which provides for the possibility of simplified judicial implementation in cases where the debtor does not object to the applicant's demands. Once again, it's about the procedure of the so-called "serious introduction" of a simplified, written, unchallenged party. That is, when there is no dispute, but there is a failure to fulfil the terms of the contract or other obligations that may arise in a disputed relationship. An important novelty of the codes is the exclusion from them of the institution of refusal to accept statements, honourable colleagues. From now on, the Master Court cannot, if approved, refuse to accept the application only for formal reasons. That is to say, this novelty is proposed in order to increase the level of protection of citizens and subjects, as required by the European Convention. The new codex is the Institute of the previous session and the previous court session. By the way, this coincides with the already approved Civil Procedure Code, where it is envisaged that the court's own debate procedure should be reduced, as many issues as possible should be resolved in the preceding stages so that we do not turn the court into lengthy proceedings, and thus increase its value and actually increase the time of the case. The projects provide that this is actually a constitutional requirement that the court is fully determined by technical means. The novels of these bills also refer to, unlike the current Economic and Procedural Code, a more complete regulation of the regulations on the treatment of farm disputes by foreign entities. The list of reasons why Ukrainian courts may mention cases against foreigners is substantially expanded, but by the way, it does not violate just yesterday's passed law, where we have ruled out as a basis for recourse to the Ukrainian court when a foreign legal person does not have his own separate property or has no separate branch. Dear colleagues, in the absence of time I will not name, to present a more detailed analysis of this bill, bearing in mind that it is proposed for approval in the first reading. And our subsequent work will actually be more detailed and regulated, given that the Committee on Legal Policy has already set up a working group to finalize this bill in the second reading mode. There are no reasons why we would not be able to support this bill in the first reading today, which is evidenced by the decision of the Legal Committee, the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office, which strongly recommends that this document be approved in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u25	Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up, five minutes. Assadchev, behind him Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u26	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, I think we are all now seeing a completely imperfect procedure of the Supreme Council in considering such important bills as procedural codes. Now you've made your point. Then Victor Lavrentiovich will report his version, and then Minust will give his version. We will listen to all of this very well, but no one will ever understand, and what is the difference between these codes? What was the purpose of the three codes? Are they completely different from each other? Are they practically the same? Then why bring in three? Because it's a very serious document. I'd like you to at least respond to the analysis, the characteristics, what's the essence, the difference in codes? Because understand that not all MPs can read the entire legislative framework that is being incorporated into the Supreme Council. Some deal with economic issues, but the question is very important. I'd like you to stop a little bit at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. Valery Mikhailovich, your honor, is that we cannot limit the legislative initiative of the national MPs. And the circumstances that have been introduced by the three draft codes are the right and will of the subjects of the legislative process. As far as comparison is concerned. The Musiyaki bill and the government bill are close. What's more, I'll tell you that in due course a bill has just been registered by authorship: Hapochka, Oneichuk and other national MPs, Richterova, etc. There was also a Musiyaki project, which actually represented more government positions, particularly the Ministry of Justice, which was aligned with the Supreme Court. After you and I had adopted the Civil Procedure Code in our second reading, the government, having the opportunity and actually coming out of the need for unification, immediately together, and, by the way, with the people's MP Musiyak, reviewed the provisions of the bill, which was not introduced, and registered a new one. So the fundamental differences that would allow us today to talk about the different methodology of these documents do not have to be said, they are very close, different in individual institutions. For example, the Government’s bill foresees that the stage of appeal and cassation is ensured, i.e. the subject of an appeal after the first instance hearing in the event that he does not agree with the decision, can either appeal to the appellate body to review the case or, failing an appeal, appeal to the cassation. This is the position of the government bill, particularly the Musiyaki bill. The authorship bill: Onechuk, Bogatyrova, Hapochka, comes out of the other. He thinks that we have created an appeal institute so that he can correct a judicial error if it's allowed directly in the appeal mode without actually waiting and not loading the cassation facility. Well, there are other types of differences. But methodologically, the documents are focused on new times, new procedural standards, and the requirements set by the Council of Europe. Thank you for your attention. By the way, you've noticed by accident exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u28	Mikola Vasilovich, we have five minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u29	I'm sorry, I'm done. Just one word. Incidentally, by the way, the authors, who rarely do, decided to tell one person, referring to the fact that there is no problem, well, the conflict between these documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u30	Please, Solomatin, follow him Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u31	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Mikola Vasilovich, the imperfection of the present judiciary is a fact. And when large commercial structures with a number of lawyers are involved in this case, that's one thing, and when they have to get into these nets and tweezers of natural persons without proper legal escorts or other, I'm very interested in your information. that the jurisdiction of farm courts has been extended, including with regard to natural persons with special competence. Please tell me, do you belong to such individuals with a special constitution, the jurisdiction of the fraudulent investors of the Bank of Ukraine? Perhaps the deceptive investors of the many nonstate pension funds that are being created today? The same famous bank of "Slovakia" and all that? Can such ones be adequately protected?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u32	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for asking. It is precisely to a large extent, in view of the experience of such important and particularly important social reactions, that bankruptcy, such as the bankruptcy of the Bank of Ukraine, where the interests of the citizens of the investors were highlighted in a separate context, that they were in civilian courts, and the bankruptcy process itself went to the courts of commerce, and that these interests could not be carried out and arranged so that they could be securely protected, that we also saw that now, when it comes to bankruptcy, citizens would be entitled to refer to the court, particularly the insolvency court, so that they could effectively protect their interests so that they could see how they were involved in these processes, so that they could see who was in charge of how it would work, how they would be set up to do so and how they would settle it. This is a positive feature of this bill, and it is in the best interest of its support. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u33	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u34	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mikola Vasilovich, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision of 31 March 2004, the Supreme Council appointed 67 deputies on the unconstitutionality of the President's decree on measures to introduce a State monopoly on the production of alcohol and alcohol was granted the right to privatise, the "spirits" so-called "privatization of companies in the alcohol sector". The court supported the members of the Supreme Council in the section on excise goods. As for privatization, the court has corrected us, members of the Supreme Council, to the courts of general jurisdiction. Now you're proposing a law in which you restrict me as an MP to the defense of both the Crimsons and other businesses. Then tell me, please, how will I protect those deceiving people who work in these businesses, as I will then protect my constituents when the right to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u35	Dear Valentina Petrovna! On the contrary, the law now allows citizens whose interests are considered to have been violated in the privatization process to refer directly to the court that is already dealing with the case, for example, in breach of the outcome of the competition, the decision to privatize, and so on. You rightly said that today the situation is something that is being sent to another court. They say we're looking here, we have order here, in these courts, and you go to the courts of general jurisdiction and argue there. And now we're allowing the possibility that citizens have the opportunity to go directly to the court where the privatisation case is being considered. And we increase protection, we don't narrow it down, we expand it, these possibilities. By the way, both the State Property Fund and many other subjects of interest have stood up for this position in order not to dissipate disputes involving privatization, but to allow all of them to be dealt with in one court in a comprehensive and unified manner. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u36	Thank you. Please sit, Mikolo Vasilovich, let's begin the discussion. Please show me the list. Let's probably take 18 minutes. Carmagine, prepare Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u37	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I want to say that the law that is now being adopted is extremely serious, but our approach to legislation is not very serious. We said we were reforming the power system. We've made it so corrupt. We made it inaccessible to a citizen. And we're doing now and there's another bad attempt in this code right now, and I'm going to try to say in this short time what I think about it. The entire Cabinet project is in place. A government that is now being told. The issue of the adoption of this project by the committee is almost entirely in line with the 4157 National MP Musiyaki project. Almost completely, but it's got reactions. The reasons for the complaint to the Supreme Court of Ukraine are being reduced. I don't agree with that. I don't think millions of our citizens would agree. And entrepreneurs, too. The procedure for dealing with civil matters in the courts of general jurisdiction should be based on the sole principles laid down in the new Civil Procedure Code, which you and I adopted on March 18th. With the unification of the joint provisions of the Civil and Economic Process on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Here again is the price for information services from citizens and legal persons. We have the unconforming position of the Code of Master Procedure, which is now being introduced to those positions of the Code of Conduct that we have already adopted in the first reading. This refers to the deletion of the draft chapters of the case concerning the prosecution of legal acts, the handling of cases of allegations of illegal legal acts, decisions and actions of inaction of local authorities, other authorities. Thus, jurisdiction under the APC of administrative courts extends to disputes between natural or legal persons as subject to authority, which is considered by the executive or local authority and by the official or official body. And here comes the drag of this canal. I'm against it. And against the narrowing of the Supreme Court's rights. So I'm proposing in Article 325. Instruct grounds for the annulment or modification of court decisions, as approved by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The Supreme Court annuls or alters the approval in the case of court decisions, acts where a law or other legal act that does not conform to the provisions of the Constitution has been applied by the courts and general courts in a mixed manner, the courts of the household have incorrectly applied the rules of the international treaties of Ukraine, an international tribunal whose jurisdiction has been recognised by Ukraine. and the fact that Ukraine is in breach of international obligations or other misapplication of substantive and procedural law and grounds for revoking the contested decision has been established.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u38	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! I'm done. I would like to draw your attention to the opinion of the head of the Court of Justice in the household cases of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Ivan Bogdanović Shitsky, who proposed the drafting of article 324 of the "Fundaments for overturning the defendant's decision and for leaving a new court decision annulled by mistake." Having determined that the Economic Court of Cassation has annulled the court’s decision under law, the Supreme Court annuls the decision of the Court of Cassation and gives effect to the decisions of the Court of Appeal or the first instance. Thank you. That would be a reasonable addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u40	Please, dear. Prepare Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! I think there's an understanding in the room today that we need the Code of Conduct. And the changes that are being proposed, and the three options, more precisely the ones that are being offered to us today, each has its own positive moments. But in general, when assessing the situation, it can be said that they have a positive start, a positive one, because there is a problem more global than all those that have already been heard here and will be heard in the work on the Code of Economic Procedure. However, I would like to address some of the issues that I think must be addressed, even though I am prepared to support these bills in my first reading. First. It's not surprising, speaking of court, that we should talk, and I see a few problems that have to do with the abuses that we are talking about in the court that we are talking about today. First. I must tell you that there is a genuine misunderstanding about the possibility of paying a third-party public fee for the plaintiff. The fact that I understand and the extent to which I can manage the business situation is that those who want to declare a hunt, I don't know, grass, claims and create some problems through plaintiffs will always be enough. And here we are officially speaking to you that any claimant who has any claim may make a statement. Because if you pay for it, if you pay for it, if you pay for it, and if you pay for it, it'll cost anybody. That's why I think we have the opportunity here to get a back-up plaintiff who's going to be tens and hundreds of claims. The next part concerns two bills. The bill prepared by the 4157-1 MP and the bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is true that today we receive double wages if a person applies to the Economic Court. On the one hand, he would pay the public fee and, on the other hand, pay all the remaining costs related to the case. In fact, we are establishing a basis under which the court may abuse or individual court officials. And you and I will get what we have in the tax office today. Great apartments, amazing cars and many of the things that are, in fact, abundant for this side, where there are a lot of problems. I therefore believe that there should be no double-payment talks in any way. And the last. I would like to express my gratitude to all the authors, including the deputies, including the Cabinet of Ministers, that such a fine policy on the failure of its bills must be sought. Three bills, couldn't we agree in advance? Couldn't we have made a compromise? The room will now be torn by ballots, and in fact none of them may pass. Therefore, I think that these issues should be resolved before they are brought into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u42	Please, Solomon. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u43	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I want to start by confirming the ones that my colleague, Nadrag, finished with. Indeed, it is very interesting that such an important document exists in three versions, and it was not harmonized, and it was presented in these three versions. You know, after that discussion we had, I came up with this idea, I want to formulate it this way. Here's what you want to do to me, but I don't believe that bourgeois justice will be able to protect a small Ukrainian. The thing is, he's right in our country, he's bourgeois, he's got more rights, he's got bigger wallets. This is bourgeois justice. So let us not be misled that it is with the adoption of this bill that the average little Ukrainian will be protected. He'll have a little more opportunity to go to court. But the fact that he will be able to get the right protection, forgive me, I don't believe it. This bill has a political nature. Although part of the purpose is to build a system of justice, this system of things is to be implemented. Even though he has the right to be supported. But in connection with his political character, this will be decisive in voting for him for all of these or for one of the three bills that have been tabled. From my point of view, the government bill is a little more thorough. And yet I offered to support what the government had put forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u44	Please, Seminoga, get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u45	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think any of you have any doubt about the fact that the problems that have led us into our own household. We need to make decisions today. Therefore, I am grateful to the authors of these bills for the work they have done and put these bills before our court. After familiarizing myself with the three bills, I came to the conclusion that a basic bill could be adopted by the Mosaic People's Bill 4157/1, because it contains separate provisions on comparison with other bills that are more efficient and regulate the relevant issues of the judiciary more fully. In particular, this applies to the introduction of orderly conduct, jurisdiction, identification of documents and materials which may be evidence in the case, procedural periods, the definition of the meaning of the concept of economic procedural efficiency and economic procedural efficiency, the identification of persons who cannot be represented before the court, the grounds for leaving applications without consideration, the categories of cases which are dealt with in particular order, the acceptance which may be challenged separately from the decision of the court of the court of appeal, the terms of application, the grounds for re-appealing, and so on. At the same time, all the articles are, in fact, all the articles in this bill have a point, such as article five. According to this article, with which every person is entitled to appeal to a household court for the protection of his or her rights and interests, however, the jurisdiction of the household court is limited to the consideration of disputes related to economic activity. Other articles, such as article 26, are serious. We need to determine how to deal with disputes in a preconceived manner. And so on. The proposal to adopt Bill 4157/1 of the Musiyaki People's Deputy on the basis of the second reading, we will get, in fact, an effective master-procedural code of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Yavorowski, prepare for the Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u47	Valentina Semenyuk asked me to give her my word, and I yield to the woman in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u48	Please, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u49	Thank you, I think we'll work together, and we'll do it together. Dear colleagues, the bill presented today - 4157-1 and two are subject to very different polarities: on the one hand, the bill, which was submitted, inter alia, only a change to article 26, was considered by the Special Monitoring Commission on 7 April 2004. We held a joint meeting of two committees -- corruption and organized crime and legal policy -- and our special review committee, which discussed the question that today the courts of general jurisdiction are considering the actions of individuals during privatization. It would be possible to support this relevant document, as we discussed at the meeting of the Commission, but after that decision we received, to the Deputy Supreme Council for submission to the Constitutional Court, which was 50 members of the Supreme Council, representatives of the factions of the Socialists, Communists, Our Ukraine, Fatherhood, where we submitted a statement that there was an unconstitutional decree on the steps taken to establish a state monopoly in the field of control over production and alcohol and alcohol, it could be said that the Constitutional Court, before interpreting article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine, when it sent us, deputies, by judicial orders to protect public property in the courts of general jurisdiction, should firstly refer to the fact that, while there were no relevant normative documents on the responsibility of the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary could not be able to enforce its own jurisdiction over the courts, the deputs of the deputs, the deputs of the deputs, the deputs of the deputs of the deputs, and the courts, and of the courts, and of the courts. So I think, in the light of the discussion we had at the meeting of the three committees, we're actually talking about the need to take into account the point that was made at the meeting of the committee. And what I'm saying is that delaying privatization through lawsuits is also a positive, and it's a negative. The positive is that you can protect your right to privatization, and the negative is inhibition. But the braking is in what way: if this was a transparent privatisation. And since we've been privatizing large objects and Crevistals, and we're currently preparing for other objects, it's impossible to maintain this standard. So I think we need to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court and the opinion of the three committees from which I speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Cherniak Volodymyr Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u51	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, I propose that a committee of profile be prepared on the basis of the three bills that have been tabled, a single bill. In fact, all these bills are similar, they're close, they're congruent. And I think we can base, of course, one of them, and then take into account the main points of the other. But you can make one of them, write down all the authors, all three of them. And I think then the session room will support it. What wishes can be expressed in the preparation of the final version for hearing in the session room. It should be borne in mind that the procedure for dealing with civil matters in courts of general jurisdiction and in domestic courts should be based on the only principles laid down by the new Code of Civil Procedure adopted on 18 March 2004 with the harmonization of the common provisions of the civil and economic process. This is a fundamental requirement that this code be in line with the Civil Code and that the common provisions of civil and economic processes be harmonized. Next. The provisions of the GPA project should also be aligned with the relevant provisions of the draft administrative and procedural code, which was adopted at the first reading on 13.07.2003. So when this is agreed upon, then we'll have a systematic approach to solving the issues. I would like to support the proposal made by Deputy Karmazin, referring to Shitsky, regarding the need to supplement the draft code with a new article 324-direct content: "The grounds for revoking the contested decision and for leaving the decision annulled by error, by establishing that a court of the court of the cassation has overturned a judicial decision adopted by law, the Supreme Court of Ukraine annuls the decision of the court of the cassation and leaves the decision of the Lord's Court of Appeal or of the first instance." I think that's what's missing from all three draft codes. And finally. Of course, we cannot accept a reduction in the terms of prosecution because it leads to corruption. I don't think the Supreme Council can support this novel. And we cannot agree with the narrowing of the rights of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u52	Thank you. Please turn on the Nonechuck microphone. Conclusions and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who spoke out of the national deputies. And those who signed up, not were able to speak. We expect to receive your comments directly to the committee. Now, with regard to the decision of the Committee of Legal Policy on these laws. In agreement with and on the basis of the Committee's consideration of the three bills, the Supreme Council is recommended to establish a legislative bill under number 4157-2, under the agreement of the authors of the other bills and on the basis of this bill, in the event of its approval, in the first reading, to organize further work for its preparation for second reading and approval as a law. Thank you very much again. 4157-2, government, is recommended as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u54	Thank you. Question completed. All who wanted to share in the discussion took advantage of their right. Let's go over these bills. Please, Musiak. Musiyaki microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u55	Dear National Deputies! Here, in fact, three bills, but maybe not everyone understood that the authors of individual projects agreed that a government project should be based on a government project, which takes into account a lot of our designs, positions, and then we're ready to propose our proposals in the second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u56	Please invite the deputies to the session room, we'll vote. The government is clear that it supports its own. Whether he wants to support another project. Another Ivanovna, do you have anything other than a government proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u57	No, of course not, Adam Ivanovich. And I would just like to reaffirm our position in support of Bill 4157-2 and, in particular, to support the proposal of the Black people's MP who was speaking out for the idea of unification, namely, this code is unified with the Civil Procedure Code. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u58	Thank you. A draft Ukrainian Code of Procedure, registration number 4257, is put to the vote. Based on the base. About 12 Even the authors do not vote. Project of the People's Deputy Musiyaki 4157-1. For 80. That's how I put the vote in agreement. The committee also reported, and the authors of other bills asked for support. Bill number 4157-2 is government-supported by the authors of previous projects. Please vote. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. I'm going to vote again. Who would like to go back to the question of defining the fate of Bill 4157-2, please vote. For -227. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Code of Procedure, registration number 4157-2. Vote. "To" - 219 Then there's a proposal to re-read Bill 4157-2 itself. Please vote. "To" -336 Decision taken. Resends the project to re-read. I think we'll come to an agreement, because there'll be one. There's a bill on the National Environmental Fund. Registration number 4508. He will report to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Polakov Sergey Vasilovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. You're looking at a draft Ukrainian National Environmental Fund Act. This bill is designed to implement the Ukrainian Law on the National Water Development Programme, a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the past and current years. There is no alternative to the development of an economic mechanism for environmental use and conservation in the transition to a market economy and the limitation of budgetary centralised funds to protect the environment. One component of the economic mechanism for environmental management and conservation is the environmental protection funds. The funds were practically created in 1992. Since the introduction of payments for pollution of the environment in accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the price for pollution has been the main source of the environmental protection fund. An analysis of the activities of the existing funds in Ukraine during this period shows that their form has exhausted itself and needs reform. Today, somewhere in fact, these are the targeted budget accounts, which are managed by the Ministry of Nature, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, rural, rural, city councils -- just over nine thousand nine hundred. It is necessary to determine that the ongoing standard-setting work carried out by the State Tax Administration in improving the regulatory and methodological base has led to a steady positive trend in the growth of financial resources to the state and local environmental protection funds. Most of them, out of 26.5 million. December 96 to nearly 10 times in 2003, up to $269.4 million. Since 2003, a survey of congregation standards for pollution of the environment, the main source of fund formation, has been carried out one and a half times. The financial resources of government and local environmental funds should increase accordingly. A draft of community standards for environmental pollution also for air transport is set out to expand the yield of environmental protection funds. The rise in fund-raising is a pressing problem in the creation of relational structures for the management of funds that are not currently available. It does not contribute to the efficient use of expenditure funds only in the form of grants, i.e. on a non-reversible basis, as well as dispersion from active funds, which I have already said are over 9,900 units. It should be noted that environmental funds are also created and operated in highly developed market economies, such as France and virtually all countries with economies in transition - Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Kyrgyzstan, Estonia. However, their legal status, sources of formation, and form of administration are essential differences between foreign funds and others. So, based on the above-mentioned shortcomings in the activities of Ukrainian funds, taking into account the experience of foreign environmental foundations in market economy conditions, the Minn-Nature, together with other central executive bodies, developed a bill on the National Environmental Fund of Ukraine. I want to say that we've given you here all the tables are comparative and other materials. Therefore, honourable people's deputies, in completing their speech, please, taking into account the complexity of the environmental situation in Ukraine, support this important and relevant bill on the creation of the National Environmental Fund and accept it as a basis. Of course, the Ministry, together with the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will work with all the deputies on this bill and will adopt it in the final version, taking into account all the proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u60	Thank you, sit down, please. The question is desire? Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Nigger, get Solomon ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Minister! The Cabinet of Ministers by decree 666 created the Environment Fund, but the use of the funds of this fund is not transparent, transparent, and in my opinion, ineffective. Will the adoption of this law on the National Environmental Fund contribute to a more efficient use and more transparent use of the funds of this fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u62	Thank you. I would like to say that, indeed, such a determination exists, but we do not yet have funding under this decree. She took it to, so to speak, in the previous version to look at, so to speak, at. And do the work earlier, predicting the creation of the National Environmental Fund. The creation of the National Environmental Fund will allow for a more transparent way of doing all the work and will make more transparent use of the resources of the state that are coming to this fund. That's why we think that the creation of such a fund will be an opportunity from the beginning of 2005 for this fund to work. And he will be accountable to the local councils of the district, as well as the state fund, which will be accountable to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u63	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u64	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, you have the following word in your report: on a non-reversible basis, grants are given to certain structures, especially at the local level, money to compensate for certain environmental problems. Well, Grants and Grantoids are such an interesting word, it's in everyone's ear. Please tell me that this bill is designed to avoid grants, but there are normal reports to make it clear, it's clear where the money goes, it's meant to be used and what the public and the state can be sure that these, with so much difficulty, the money collected, will be used to preserve the environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u65	Thank you. Yuri Petrovich, well, first of all, I'd like to say that, well, let's say it's a fancy word "grant," but the funds that are being allocated directly from this fund, they really go on a non-reversible basis. All the measures that work in the areas: and in the sewers, in the cleaners, using the cost of purchasing equipment for Tess, others, or electrofilters, to, say, reduce emissions into the atmosphere -- they're basically transparent. And we're giving, and you know, we're also giving each year a direct schedule: how the fund was used for the current year, the previous year. But what we do think is a flaw in the operation of this fund. The disadvantage, in our view, is that we are the funds that are coming, they are no longer going back to the state. We want to adopt this law so that, like in other countries, another mechanism can work, maybe use credit resources to some enterprises that want to make improvements to the environment in their businesses. But, you know, banks do have enough high interest rates that we have today in the state. And at the expense of this fund, some percentages of these loans can also be provided for in order to make the burden on the enterprise much less. And a slightly different question, which is what work with the banking system, the insurance business, in our view, has to be taken into account when working on the second reading to get the fund to work, not just by taking these costs, but by being able to earn them a little bit. And to be accountable to the district councils and to the state, and to all its use, it is given directly and directly to the deputies and made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u66	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The minister has now briefly added the essence of the project on the National Environmental Fund. I would like to say first of all the views of the committee and the committees that were looking at the bill. There are many observations, but in general everyone supports the initiative to support the bill, to take it as a basis, and to work with it. Note, I repeat, very much and, of course, it is clear that there is a desire to experience using the environmental fund that is today, and to it there are many, let's say, claims, Yuri Petrovich said, “grantoids” and also to make the mechanism transparent. So there are several options for the National Environmental Fund. There are alternative bills, but there is a compromise. We've agreed with the Ministry that, with a positive conclusion, with the support of today's Cabinet project on the basis of the work you're going to see. It'll be a second reading of a bill that will take all the notes into account. It's going to be a clear, clear situation. I'd like to say that the flaws, in particular, focus. The creation of the National Environment Facility as the only interconnected financial structure is not foreseen. This will enable us to systematically address the financing of environmental measures and to control our work. We can fix it for the second reading. Of course 8,000 300 funds, which today is actually. In the villages, in the cities, in the regions -- it's also not quite right, and unfortunately, the regional leaders decided it was their extra budget. No, this money has to go to environmental measures. And it is necessary, dear colleagues, to be consistent. If we've recently adopted a series of conceptual bills, including the Kyoto Protocol, which is the basis for what the polluter has to pay, all over the world, this strategy dominates, ecology is really expensive, and what we've done since 1996 is we've raised everything by one and a half times the level of pollution pay is negative. I think if it doesn't satisfy a lot of people in the regions the level of pay, then the union is fighting for it. If it doesn't satisfy the cost of gas, Naftogaz is fighting for it. If it doesn't satisfy electricity, Minpalevenergo. And who's going to be, excuse me, asking the question that the resource is water, forest, air, it's also worth money. So it's definitely about the polluted strategy. will dominate in the near future in Ukraine. The bill for second reading, if we support it, will be, believe me, effective and constructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u68	Thank you, Hennady Borisovich. Have a seat, please. 15 minutes to talk. Please Puzakov, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u69	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština We ourselves lack the courage to ask ourselves what is going on around us, to which the bourgeois authorities have turned this once flourishing land. Sometimes it seems that there has been a terrible tsunami, destroying the natural beauty of the environment, leaving behind plastic bottles, disposable bags, stumps at the site of deforestation and deforestation. Regrettably, today’s forest management is a complete collapse of the state control system. In Ukraine, hundreds of thousands of rare plants are destroyed every year, which are brought into the Red Book. And how many diseases do we have because of the use of inequitable drinking water that causes great concern to the population of Ukraine? And problem number one is, which water supply routes to choose and which water to consume. Current water chlorination at water stations is not only outdated but also a dangerous means of purification. But nobody tells anyone about it. People drink tap water without suspecting a terrible danger. And perhaps it is time to create a dense bulwark by infiltrating inefficient, façaded water into the commercial network. There are so many cases of water poisoning, but here our sanepedemlicators are only spreading with their hands. Well, free trade is legal, and it has produced boundless pursuits of profit. What difference does it make if you die after that water or if you are resurrected. The main thing is profit. They're pointing out the reason -- you see -- that's the ecology. Who created such an environment? Are we going to ask each other what we're breathing? In Kirovgrad, it is also prestigious to have a car in a residential area. And it's just that the air temperature is rising, there's nothing to breathe in the apartments, there's gas all over the place. Who, and for what purpose, gave permission to build these tanks? What kind of environmental law is this allowed? Let us look at our rivers and lakes. There's one reed and one wasp everywhere. For example, Kirovogradi on the shore in the remote past of the Ingul River. Today, though, this river can be found only by the smell of air. That's how we manage. And it's not just the river of Korovograd, it's dozens, hundreds of them all over Ukraine. Natural sources destroyed lie under a garbage dump. Counting environmental problems is simply not enough time. One conclusion is that the outlook on the future is sad and threatening. And in this situation, we would like the National Environment Facility to make meaningful use of environmental funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u71	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I have two draft laws in my hands. One project, 4508, which was implemented by the government, and the other project, 4508-1, introduced by our colleague, Rudenko Hennady Borisovich. Compare. See, there's a couple of leaves and there's a solid folio. In one eight articles, totally primitive to the content, the other is eighteen. It's all written down, all the way to detailed parliamentary control over the use of funds. In honor of Gennady Borisovich, I say so. Thank God. But I don't understand why a professional committee brings and proposes to a surrogate to adopt rather than adopt a good code. I will never understand this toy with the government. So the concept of just creating funds is already there. And I'm going to remind Mr. Rabbit John, who's always for ecology, who approved the state environmental fund for May 7, 1998. Then a decree was made on the use of environmental funds on July 5, 1999. Then take a new one — a list of activities that are part of conservation. Then they wrote about the approval of the procedure for setting congregation standards for environmental pollution. Only no one has ever reported to us in Parliament where the funds went from that fund. And that's the state budget's money. So let's see what's proposed in this law right now. There is no definition of the National Environmental Fund in the project. The legal status of the State Environmental Fund, the Republic Environmental Fund, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts of the Kiev and Sevastopol City Environmental Funds is defined. The law, which is actually supposed to be called "About environmental funds financed by government and local budgets, so I can call it, this law, so it has to be named by content, because it's about creating a lot of funds, it's about creating a whole structure that's back on the state budget. According to section 2 of article 4 of the bill, the National Environmental Fund is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If it's changed. I told you it was already approved. It's already been approved. As early as 1998, Decree No. 634. So, without defining the legal status, you can't accept such a project in such an order, you had to adopt a bill in 4508, which was passed by the national MP Rudenko Hennady Borisovich. I object to the adoption of the code, and I express my incomprehensibility as to why there is no parallel. And the Codex that is is to be considered under the Rules today. Why he's not in, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Darling, prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! As you and I know, environmental problems have accumulated for decades. I can explain a few examples. Among them is the same Lugansk region, the River of Siverski Donac. Since the 1970s, a traditional sanipedist bans pioneer camps from bathing in that river. I want to remind you of the second half of the 1980s, when the environmental theme was bringing tens of thousands of people out to the streets, and they understood what country we live in, what country we breathe, what we drink, and what we eat? Unfortunately, life has shown that if we continue to talk to you, but not to do, and we can only do it with financial resources, we will not be okay with the environment. So today, when we say that we need or don't need a fund, we have to answer ourselves: do we really need to do environmental work, or do we leave all of us at the level of meetings, calls, debates, TV and the press? Therefore, today, when it is said that it is necessary to consolidate the resource in order to use it, I am personally in favour. The only question that, unfortunately, I couldn't get answers to is because we have three minutes of answers and questions, and why they're answered, so to speak, just two or three factions, I'd like to know if it's going to happen, it's not necessarily now, maybe it's going to have to be a second reading, that in the formation of these environmental funds. The State Fund will kill the bulk of the resources, and the local funds referred to here will remain bitter tears. I would like to know if it would not be possible and what mechanism is required to ensure that the fund does not abuse its authority over enterprises, because the resources from which the fund is formed are one of the following: other income that is not contrary to the law and the assignment of local environmental funds? Won't the local offices of the funds be doing, well, if not a racket, a coercion to collect resources? And they'll have a plan there, and they'll need a report and promise to take it off the job. Next moment. I would like to know how the funds that will be allocated to the environmental fund directorate will be regulated and will not the fund eat more and less for the environment? And the last. I am deeply convinced that we must establish a system in which there must be strict control over the use of all means, and that they will become part of the State budget, I believe that this is one of the mechanisms that will allow for tighter control of the resource that this fund will send to the environment. Well, that's the last one. As a discussion of this bill, I would very much like to talk to you about the professional elements. And when we say here that today environmental money is going to create new jobs, let's first find out where they're going and how they're using them. In Luhansk region, they're going fine, I know that from my own experience. They're trying to make the environment better. The rest of us, let's get things straight, not just say that money's going somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Solomon. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u75	Yuri Solomatin, a Communist faction, a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dear colleagues, this is where the question just came from: why no Bill 5408-1 of our colleague Hennadia Rudenka was introduced. And I say, the committee did this with an understanding not to fall into the trap that it just fell into, a few minutes ago, considered from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 4157-d, 4751-1d, 4751-2, the Master's Procedural Code. [[government]] We've acted, the committee has acted very responsibly. And I'm grateful to our colleague Gennady Rudenka for having gone beyond his ambitions and for doing everything he could to make our joint effort to move away from this. The report by Minister Polakov Sergey Vasilovich stressed that now that we have not yet worked the final market economy, market relations, and the state budget is not being properly filled, and that is indeed true, but some of the distortions in this respect have already taken place. And I would very much like, both as an individual MP and as a representative of the Communist faction, that this State budget should be used for social protection of the population, first of all, those who are waiting for benefits and compensation when they get a raise in wages, pensions and so on. So we have to do everything we can to make the market economy work in this particular area: in protecting the environment. The arrival is rising, and in 1996 there were 26 million dollars, and now there are 10 times as many. And that's exactly what it takes for these almost 260 million dollars to be properly used to be under the control of both the public and the MPs, so that they can work properly, not dissipate almost 10,000 individual foundations and foundations and disappear somewhere as sad grants. So I would like to assure you that the faction of Communists with understanding is treating this bill, it supports it and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u76	Please, Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u77	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Bill 4508, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the National Environmental Fund, proposes the creation of several foundations for national, state, and local environmental funds. Their main objective is to make effective use of funds from the congregation for environmental pollution and the implementation of state environmental programmes. All the funds are state institutions. The fund’s income consists of a collection for environmental pollution, a collection of damage caused by natural and legal persons in the Black Sea and the Azova Sea. Costs are managed by the environmental fund’s directorate. To carry out conservation measures, the fund can provide costs on a non-refundable basis, using a commercial bank lending mechanism. Up to 5 percent of the funds of this fund are proposed to be sent to the creation of a material and technical base of the central environmental enforcement body. There are important points to be made to the bill. It's not a single fund that's stressed in the name of the project, it's a few single funds. Undetermined legal status of the National Environmental Fund. Why create a state environmental fund? And in general, I don't understand the position of the Cabinet of Ministers in terms of environmental protection. By adopting this bill, will we be able to improve the environmental situation in our country? Is the fund going to do any good? Instead of developing a program to reduce emissions into the atmosphere, it reduces the pollution of our state’s watercourses. Instead of developing a program for the protection of small rivers, we are today creating another government apparatus that will be supported by government funds. And this is where the obvious purpose of the laundering of government funds is pursued. The Fund will have the right to lend on a non-refundable basis and to spend loans from commercial banks. I'm not talking about the 5 percent from the State Budget going to go to fund support and pay. The suggestion is to reject this bill as harmful to our nation's ecology.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, for Rudenko's clarification, 1 minute. And the rabbit's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u79	Thank you. First. I'd like to say, dear colleagues, is it better with the National Environmental Fund or worse? Today, 8,000,300 foundations that have no legal status to control are unrealistic. It seems that if you want to make the procedure more transparent, there must be someone who wants to say that it will be, on the contrary, a new shadow scheme. It's written down: 5 percent for expenses. This can be controlled. It's written that there will be interest-rate programs in banks. Sorry, this program is already in operation in agriculture, and it has given its normal effect. But I assure you, we have a lot of other work to do, especially with the return of money. There is no such procedure today. And in the United States, 102 funds that exist normally. In Ukraine, under the pressure of the International Monetary Bank, we once closed all the funds in the mid-1990s, and now it's time to go back to that. So be supportive, fellow believers, in the first reading. I've withdrawn my bill for compromise. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u80	Please, from the location of the rabbit's replica, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u81	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I want to convince my colleague Yuri Karmazin to vote in favour of this bill, and that's why. There are several reasons for this. We're already in the process of creating this foundation at a legislative level of at least five or six years. The Fund is in itself acting, it is already the Cabinet of Ministers' decree, it was formerly the Order. And we can't control the use of this fund properly today. Because the level of legislation is not the level of law. So today we have a real need and a real opportunity to build this foundation on a legislative level, to build a legislative basis. Otherwise, we will not use the cost effectively to eliminate environmental problems. And the fact that he needs to be drafted by this bill, that's how we know, and that's what our committee knows. We know how to work it. We need to make a political decision today and push this forward much further than it has ever been. So I urge all of you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u82	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. But we won't push, we'll vote. Please, we're mobilizing. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the National Environmental Fund Act, registration number 4508. Please vote. "For" - 276 The bill was adopted in the first reading. We're getting ready for the second one. Dear colleagues, let us no longer deviate from Friday’s tradition, work without interruption. That's why we're listening to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural Reserve Fund to improve the security of the reserve area. Registration number 4590. Polakov reports Sergey Vasilovich. Please. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u83	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Commanding Fund of Ukraine, prepared by the Ministry of the Environment for the implementation of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the original billing plan in 2002 and the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the national policy on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the Natural and Commandive Fund of Ukraine and on the protection of cultural heritage and on the enforcement by officials of the requirements of the current law on the national Hortics. The decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine recommended that amendments be made to the Law of Ukraine on the Natural Command Fund of Ukraine, providing for the strengthening of the legal principles of the activities of the National Conservation Service of the Natural Command Fund, ensuring that the public offerings and the interests of local residents are taken into account, and the activities of the Natural Command Fund institutions. The issue of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Nature and Command Fund is related to the need to implement it in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the introduction of editorial rights and the clarification of individual articles, the determination of the procedures for the implementation of conservation measures in respect of the territories and sites of the Natural Reserve, and the clarification of the composition and powers of the State Protection Service of the Natural and Command Fund. For the purpose of implementing regulations. strategies and bio-spheric reserves, in part, relying on them not only on environmental monitoring, exploring the environment, its changes under anthropogenic factors, but also on the continued socio-economic development of the territories, have been amended to articles 17.18.19 of the bill. A bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Commanding Fund has been reviewed and approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, on environmental policy, on environmental management and on the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, on the issue of the legislative provision of environmental protection. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian law will allow for the improvement of the organizational functioning of natural reserves, biosphere reserves, national natural parks, regional landscape parks, botanical gardens, dendrological parks, zoos, and other institutions of the natural and natural state-owned foundation, implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u84	Yes, is there a question? There's a question for the school. Yeah? No, then sign up. Please light up, three minutes. Yavorowski, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u85	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Mr. Minister! In my district, you know, there's a Yavorov Nature Park -- a wonderful pearl. Nature itself gave this place to the Ukrainians.), where rivers spread out to the Baltic Sea and others to the Black Sea. Please tell us, what do you know about the prospect of preserving this remarkable monument of nature itself, which is now very active in deforestation and is being exported abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that your question is in the context of the adoption of the law on the natural reserve, because we have reserves with you today, we have national parks, landscape parties, biosphere reserves, but we don't have an effective security capability. And so today, unfortunately, we have quite a number of violations in the natural reserve. Moreover, I would like to add a few more words to this question of yours. In our view, and we're still asking this question today, and I'd like the people's honourable deputies to know and, perhaps, to support us, we think that the natural-intelligence fund today is also being dispersed, individually, so to speak, by ministries, committees and all. We believe that if it is united into one system, it will be far more and better to work on the protection of these conservation zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u87	Please. Orzhachowski. Maybe Kalinczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u88	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Sergey Vasilovich, we know what the state of ecology in the state is, and you've confirmed this by introducing the previous bill that he needs a rather serious approach. On the basis of this bill, which you are presenting, I would like to ask on behalf of the representatives of Hersonian: what good will it do, especially for the Ascani Nova Reserve, as well as the customers that are there? Will they be the prerogative of the local authorities of self - government and not be affected by the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u89	Thank you. Well, what I'd like to say is that this law does not change the system that exists today, which is based on the creation and maintenance of the natural-command fund. This bill changes the security approach, that is to say, it offers additional protection, gives additional powers to the direct reserve and to those working in the reserves. This is very important because, unfortunately, there are sometimes no legal rules to give to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u90	Please, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u91	And that's what the customers are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Clothing, National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Sergey Vasilovich, the bill stipulates that the purchase of land that is privately owned for the purpose of the natural reserve fund will be made at the expense of the State Budget or local budgets, depending on where these land will be directed. I wonder, though, what is the mechanism for placing these funds in the State Budget? If they are not there at the time of the adoption of the State Budget Law, at what cost will we buy these areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u93	Thank you. I want to say that the mechanism will be one that exists in the state today. So you and I have the State Budget, we have its expenses. And when the budget is adopted, it's going to be in these expenses. Today, we have a line where the conservation of Ukraine is financed. And there's, like, where the money is. There, if we're going to work with you on the next budget, and we need to expand some of the security zones, and we need to buy out some of the other areas, we need to put these in the State Budget. And the same thing in the locals, the same exact thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Gennady Borisovich Rudenko, reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u95	Thank you. I think I'll take a little less time. First of all, I would like to point out that the bill is not political -- it's more professional, so looking for some political aspects in vain, I say. Of course, every bill is being supplemented in time. And it's this bill that's one of them. The name of the central executive body has changed, so the committee has asked for amendments to the proposed wording to add changes to the name of the special authorized body in connection with the President’s decree of March 6, 2004. I would also like to point out that the security of the natural-intelligence funds is not just a matter of the central authority, it is also a matter of local self-government. This is the case today’s legislation in general, a double subordination in many ways. Of course, if the concept changes further, changes will also apply to these bills. And in general, I think the bill has really been properly evaluated by most committees, and I'm asking you to support it. We're just gonna win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u96	Thank you, Hennady Borisovich. Should we vote? 15 minutes to talk. Please, Carmazin. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u97	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I agree with Hennady Rudenko, this bill is really professional and well written. Thank the authors for their preparation. I would like to draw your attention to the proposal that the bill should change the management of the natural-instrumental fund, in particular by establishing that the positions that determine the basis of the activities of natural or biosphere reserves, national natural parks, regional landscape parks, purchasers, botanical gardens, dendrological parks and zoos should be approved, depending on their status, or state status, or urban, local. These powers are proposed to be transferred from the central authority of the executive body in the field of environmental protection to the central authority of the executive body from geological research and rational use of nadrs, as well as topographers, geodetics, and cartographic activities, as well as to local executive authorities. I would like to point out that this bill also amends the composition and authorization of the Ukrainian National Protection Service. And using today's presence of Minister Sergey Vasilovich Sergey Vasilovich, I'm drawing your attention, Mr. Minister, to the fact that it is now permissible to violate the existing law of the Natural Command Fund of Ukraine, which was adopted here in this room in 1992. Phophanies. What's going on there, other than vandalism, is no social organization called the Party of Fatherland Defenders. What's going on today around the Kozin Reserve, where they want to take 135 hectares, and they want to take the head of the village council, and they want a woman there, 135 acres removed, and then give one of the oligarchs -- that's also a nuisance. And I would ask those authorities, the Department of State Protection of the Natural Reserve, to stop the destruction of the state reserve of Feofania, from simply destroying it. There's work to be done every day and night to destroy it. The trees of the two hundredth century age have been demolished. It's all happening at the Ukrainian shrines, near the Pantelemonian Council. How long can this go on? Why is everyone silent? Why are the Prime Minister silent and then they say there was a special broadcast yesterday, and Vladimir Ariev came out and showed what was going on in Crimea. Mogre’s forest on Saritch, which had been banned earlier, is now given 50 acres [50 ha] to a well - known oligarch who sits behind the President’s back. What a work to do! I'm talking to the minister of environmental protection, let's do something to protect this state. I propose that the law be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u98	Thank you. Please. The rabbit is Ivan Alexanderovich. Prepare for Solomatin Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u99	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, the Ukrainian People's Party, like our Ukraine, are generally concerned and concerned about the state of the environment, the high pace of its destruction. Negative processes have gone so far as to threaten the destruction of the most important objects of the natural-invention fund, such as reserves, national natural parks, regional landscape parks, and so forth. The reason for this sad reality is the weakening of government in the area of conservation of the natural-intelligence fund and the very low environmental consciousness, both for most government officials and citizens. Law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General’s Office, have only been watching from afar, the destruction of primordial meadows, green plantings, forests, and water. But there are local authorities, self-governance agencies that just embalm the natural-command fund by handing over land to the left and right under the construction of prestigious housing, hoods, and so on. For example, the Kyiv region, go to Dniprovi bows, south of Kiev, in Concha-Sleep, and you will see the justice of my words. Today, the decision of local self - government authorities to take on vast reserves of reserve territory is made if the money is easy. You can give a direct bribe, or you can offer so-called financial support to the village council and the case will be done. It is in view of these negative trends that we should evaluate the bill submitted for our consideration by the government. This bill can be adopted in the first reading. But we must immediately agree that in the second reading, it will be radically worked out. What positions I cannot agree with. First of all, the government is proposing to weaken the role of the central executive authorities in the area of conservation of natural resources. The government proposes to eliminate the authority of the local ministry of the environment. That is, to approve the functioning of the natural-intelligence fund and to transfer these powers to the local executive authorities. So we see the pyramid being turned from one foot to the other. We cannot agree that the government is proposing to weaken the status of regional landscape parks, and these are unique objects. For example, the regional landscape park of Trachtomirov, in the Cherkas region, or the Granitno Stepe Regional Landscape Park of Pobużya, in the Mikolaiiv region. What steps are being taken to weaken this status of regional landscape parks? Without directing, they cannot be legal persons. So I encourage you to accept this bill in the first reading. But we need to work on it to strengthen the role of government in the preservation of the natural-intelligence fund. Otherwise, we will have very painful consequences literally in a year or two.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u100	Thank you. Solomon renders the word Grzezhev. He'll be followed by the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in its consideration of issues in our Parliament is guided by its programme and electoral platform with which it spoke in the elections. With regard to environmental activities, I quote the programme's provision: “The PPA advocates the conservation and multiplication of landscape and biological diversity in Ukraine”. Therefore, of course, we will vote in favour of this project on first reading, because it is in charge of our programme activities. And our comments, including on coordination in this matter by the authorities, will be made. But we are very concerned about another, fundamental problem, namely the implementation of environmentally relevant laws, including those that we are discussing today. Their disregard, direct non-compliance and violation of such laws have become the norm in the conduct of officials at all levels of the executive branch. This is particularly true of environmental facilities. Let me give you some examples. In the town of the White Church of Kiev there is a dendropark "Alexandria", which is a monument to the 18th century garden and park architecture. So in February and March of this year, it's been done by local government officials, sanitation and landscape cutting, and in fact, a complete cut, and I have a photograph for this, the most valuable kind of tree. In addition, this has been done without the park's organization project. And no one is responsible for this vandalism today, and I don't think they will. Second example, the park situation in Crimea. Especially on the south coast. The construction of so-called daci or other such facilities is under various pretexts. Such illegal facts occurred in the territory of the sanatorium, the Foros Park, where the construction of four cottages took place. What is the conclusion? The level of implementation of the legislative framework, particularly with regard to the environment, the current system of power is extremely low and sometimes criminal and clan-oligarchy. That is the current power of its essence. That is why we, socialists, insist on changing it with such consistency. There's nothing else we can do if we want to improve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u102	The word is given by the national deputy of the school. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u103	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, this amendment bill contains such an addition as to improve the protection of conservation areas. But let me be honest with you, if we make permanent improvements, it somehow raises doubts that we cannot immediately adopt a good law. Improvements are needed and the faction will support and call on parliament to support the first reading. But in principle, the government would have to develop once and for all the law on the Ukrainian Natural Command Fund, which would have been permanent. He must be hard, demanding, and principled. Because in principle, when we look at the situation in Ukraine, the order of research, the study of problems in Ukraine in particular in the nature-protection environment, there is no environmental protection. So let's talk a lot about nature's reserves that have been protected before, and now they're protected worse. But whatever protection there is, let's talk about urban parks, about urban green culture. The vandalism that happens in nature’s reserves is theoretically restored, but it’s practically difficult to do so. But let's look at the lungs of Kiev or Lviv or any other city. A pair of copies cost a cube of dusted branches, a couple of copies. And for these few copies, the Jacks are happy to cut down healthy full trees. And when the question is straight and simple, one of the mayors of the city asks: How can green plantings of the city be destroyed in this way? The answer is simple: Experts do this. This is the place of such professionals in prison along with those responsible for the task of trimming or purifying certain plantations. The same is true in the reserves. When you come and ask, What kind of cut is going on? They say what's the cut? This is a sanitary treatment of the reserve. And after that sanitation, there's two shrubs left in the reserve and that's it. What are the consequences of law, any other? None. The same is true of cities. If you have to go to the reserve, spend time, you can go around Kiev, you can go around the city of Lviv, and you can ask me questions, "What kind of things do you have?" I say: "This is a poplar. The poplar must be cut in such a way that it does not have leaves, because the leaves fall to the ground, pollute the city territory." The smell is blooming. So the best thing to do is just cut down all the trees, sand, concrete, well, there's going to be a little bit of dust, but it's easier to fight the pollen than the leaves. So once again, I say: The Cabinet of Ministers should offer a clear, comprehensive, quality, demanding, and principle-fulfilling law. The fines should not be symbolic, but they should be such that if once fined, the subject who was fined as a minimum will be at the hands of those who are bankrupt. And then, if they have no conscience and no conscience, fear will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u104	Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u105	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, our constituents! We have the opportunity today to examine this farm that we have received from both our ancestors and, if you will, from the Lord God himself. In this respect, we do have an amazing land with you. Take an eye from Ascania New to Alexandria to Alexandria, to Sofia, to Lviv Kaiservald, to the western border of the Jaborian Reserve, the Trieste. Everywhere we look, we have some amazingly unique reserves. And here, of course, another caring nation that had its own state would not only preserve it, it would increase it, and today they would become, if you wanted, maybe even a major budget resource, because maybe tourists from all over the world would travel there. In fact, we did not add anything in Ukraine, nor did we even preserve what we had received from our descendants. I want to say, and this is already a fact for me, at least it's already perfect, that having a seemingly independent decorative state today, it seems to have a Ukrainian state. It's supposed to be chosen by both the people and the democratic power, but if you look at it from this point of view, we have essentially occupational power. Which is only worth one episode. For example, we have an amazing island of Trachtomers, where the bones of our outstanding Cossack leaders are buried. You know very well that Igor Bakay on this island today, in fact he privatized it and built it on these very bones of our genius ancestors built some kind of rest facilities there, not once, not two of them wrote press about it. Here my colleagues said, and I say again, today, power with some exceptional audacity simply enters the most sacred places, those places that other people and other authorities would guard, I don't know how the pupil of my eye. What's going on in Crimea? It's no longer a secret, when today literally there are some amazing parks that were planted a few centuries ago, and who are being built there, you know, you know that. Because of this, we would have to adopt a law today that would not simply be passed on, as the minister here said, that would simply cut off the hands of those who today take away all that we would have to hand over to them. This law, I believe, I will vote for it, he will not do it, he will not do it, because it takes political will for this law to be done. But I am convinced that at least a little bit of the enthusiasm that we have on our shoulders today can help them. I will vote in favour of this law and invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u106	Thank you. Question completed. Let's be clear. I'm voting on the proposal for acceptance as the basis for the first reading. Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Commanding Fund of Ukraine. [[on improving the protection of conservation areas]] This is registration number 4590. Please vote. "For" - 345, Copy that. Maybe we'll just take it as a law? No objections? Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption as a whole as a law of the Law amending the Law of Ukraine. Please, Polyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u107	Adam Ivanovich! Dear Adam Ivanovich and distinguished national deputies! I still asked, there really needs to be some changes, because if we take it as a law, we don't work with you, and there's work to be done. I'd like to do it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u108	All right, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the law was passed in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I'm here for the transcript, and I want to thank Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin for his vigilance, and he pointed out that yesterday we made some mistakes with you -- we misled the chairman that we voted yesterday in our second reading, one bill that we said Tuesday that we supported, but now we've checked the transcript, and we really haven't voted on it on Tuesday. So I'm asking you to think that yesterday we passed a bill amending the Law on the application of a register of accounting transactions in the field of public food and services for the transport of passengers and freight by taxi, not generally as a law, but as a first reading. [[This is registration number 4097-1.]] Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich, for your vigilance. Let us turn to the draft Act on the Basic Principles of the National Migration Policy of Ukraine. This is the registration number and 4227 and 4227-1. Registration number 4227 is government. Reported by Sukhov Yuri Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration, please. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Migration trends over the past 13 years have shown Ukraine’s active participation in the world’s migration processes. The uncontrollability of these processes poses a significant threat to Ukraine’s national interests. In view of this, they need effective regulation by the State in order to maximize its labour and intellectual potential, to improve the demographic situation. Article 92, paragraph 10, of the Constitution states that the laws of Ukraine define the principles of regulation of demographic and migration processes. Your opinion is proposed by two bills on the basic principles of State migration policy 4227 and 4227-1. The first, registration number 4227, was introduced last October by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council. The draft law defines the components of State migration policy, its main objective being to ensure effective State administration of migration processes, the permanent demographic and socio-economic development of the country, the strengthening of national security, the integration of the State into the European migration policy, the creation of conditions for the unhindered realization of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of migrants, the implementation of migration controls aimed at preventing and overcoming the negative effects of migration processes and the non-perception of violations of rights, freedoms and legitimate interests, both of Ukrainian citizens and of migrants. The bill provides for the identification of means of national migration policy to ensure an effective mechanism for regulating migration movements, based on the national interests of the State. In addition to this, the Supreme Council is looking at an alternative bill introduced by the national deputies Haydosh and Shulgo, its registration number 4227-1, which I want to say is essentially and content in many norms is consistent with the government's, but it has some differences. The findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority for these two bills recommended the adoption of a government bill. These bills were considered by the Committees of the Supreme Council, and they differed. The committee, headed by Hennadia Josephovich Udovenko, recommends the adoption of a bill. In addition, the European Integration Committee recommended government based. And the Law Enforcement Committee recommended that these bills be combined. According to the government, the main disadvantage of the government bill is that it has very many evaluation and descriptive categories and it's described as a policy declaration document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u110	Any questions? Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Karmazin, get ready for Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u111	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Mr. Deputy Minister, would you please tell me that this bill is too eloquent and lacks specific ways and methods to regulate migration processes? There is also no definition of the strategic interest of the State of Ukraine in leaving the country of Ukrainians, persons of all nationalities born here. Instead, in recent years, you know, you've seen a situation where even business areas have completely mastered: the Chinese, the Malays -- all Pakistanis, Hindus, and so on, and there are no steps here to limit these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u112	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. If you are, I've already said in my statement, this bill is fundamental to the migration sphere, that is, it defines the general framework of the migration policy of the states. Bills, laws and regulations on the regulation of individual directions, i.e. immigration, immigration, are special laws. There's an emigration law, there's a refugee law in Ukraine that defines the individual directions of law enforcement in a particular field. With regard to your own bill, if you draw attention to it, article 8 defines the main thrusts of migration policy, and, in particular, it foresees this bill and this article foresees the preservation of intellectual, labour potential, the protection of rights as migrants, and the non-exercision of migrants' rights over Ukrainian citizens, and so on, the preservation of Ukraine's demographic, economic potential.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u113	Please, Solomon, follow Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u114	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Yuri Mikolaiovich! I'm very surprised, you're saying that this law is a framework, it has to do with all directions of migration, migration. Please tell me, why did this bill come into agreement, to work with the Committee on European Integration, and not even to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in general? Please. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. By the way, I was present, the government bill was being considered, and a decision was made on the need to adopt it in the first reading. The parliamentary bill has not been considered as far as I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u116	Yuri Mikolaiovich, this is not a question for you, because you don't write bills, you pass them. Where they go on committees, that's not a question for an informant. Please, Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u117	Mikhailo Bauer, Trudova Ukraine faction, Chernovets region, election district number 204. Two questions. First. How will temporary humanitarian protection be granted? And the second. How can migration be limited in the interests of national security? Because that's where the other is, especially, hiding or perhaps even hiding some elements of the prejudice of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u118	Thank you for asking. The first question is the provision of humanitarian protection. The relevant bill on humanitarian protection, whether it's drawn up by the government or not, our committee, it's now in agreement with interested authorities and will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council later. With regard to restrictions on entry and exit. We now have laws that impose restrictions on the movement of Ukraine. It's about technological catastrophes. With regard to the restriction of entry, it is, first of all, that the law provides that such a restriction may be imposed solely by legislative acts, i.e. by laws. Secondly, this could be related to anti-terrorist activities and other activities that threaten the State's really national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u119	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill 4227-1 will be reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Alexandrovich Schulga. Please, Mikola Alexandrovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill before us refers to the scope of the social processes that have taken place in our country, without exaggeration, to huge scales and high dynamics over the past and and a half decades. It's about migration processes. On the surface, it seems to be simple processes. In fact, however, they are very controversial. Most of them are of a latent nature, and in this they are deceitful. In society today, more is said about external migration and almost nothing about internal migration, although economic, social and socio-culturalally it is no less significant than external migration. For Ukraine today, virtually all kinds and types of external migration are: migration, labour, education, recreation, repatriation, boat and materiel, and vectors. In the first three years of independence, from the 91st to the 93rd years, the migration situation in Ukraine was favorable. Nearly one and a half million people came to our home, and there were 900 thousand, or more than half a million. And since the year 94, people have been quickly leaving Ukraine, going to a permanent place abroad. During the past ten years, the negative migration balance has accounted for about one million people, that is, our population has dropped by one million at the expense of migration. I emphasize that this is not about labour migrants but about those who have officially left Ukraine forever. I don't think there's any need for further information in this room that migration losses are taking place against the backdrop of population depopulation. We analyzed the population’s migration goals and it turns out that 1 out of every 6 Ukrainians today intends to leave Ukraine forever. One in four would like to go to work. Sadly, all of these processes occur naturally. And today we have separate laws regulating the departure of aliens who regulate refugee issues that regulate issues and migrations, and so on. But these laws apply only to a particular sector, a separate sphere. And in general, we don't have a whole system approach, which is the basic principles of migration policy. That is why we believe that this bill is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u121	Thank you, Mikola Alexandrovich. Any questions? Then, please, the Taran microphone. [[Terra]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u122	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Mikolo Aleksandrovitch, you are right to say that in recent years there has been a negative, nearly one million negative, as it were, balance, and that Ukraine has been abandoned by people, and that in the long run, 1 in 6 wants to leave Ukraine. Do you not think that not every sixth person wants to leave Ukraine, this land, and every sixth person wants to abandon that authority? For the people go from Ukraine, not from Ukraine, but from Kushma, and from what is done here. And so, in welcoming your noble intentions: to create a concept of migration policy -- do you think that under existing power and, in the end, in the absence of borders with Russia, where does this huge wave of migration come from that is carrying AIDS, disease, drugs and so on, no articles, no circulars? You have to work, you have to, but you can't solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. The point is that the question is contradictory. For example, you've just said that the borders with Russia should be closed. But if the brothers are our eastern and northeastern regions, then tens of thousands of people in Russia have the opportunity to make themselves a piece of bread today. So we have to deal with these issues not as individuals, but as a whole have a strategy to solve this problem. Well, of course there are political aspects that you're talking about. But in this case, in this bill, I'm focusing on migration processes. Well, of course it's all in the background of a policy that's actually being implemented by the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u124	Thank you, Mikola Alexandrovich. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations of Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko. Please, Hennaday Josephovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! You have a very important bill on the concept of state policy in the field of migration. In principle, Ukraine has years of independence. has accumulated great experience, we have many good laws. In this area, the Immigration Act, the Refugee Act, is about to be completed with the preparation of the Asylum Act. But the most important law is the law on Ukrainian citizenship and so on. [[new editor]] But the national concept of migration strategy is not developed in Ukraine. By the way, unlike many SND countries, including our neighbours such as Russia, Belarus, where a state concept is developed. The government has proposed its bill, he. There are provisions that do not apply to this bill, particularly the creation of the State Migration Service. This is a matter of another bill that the Supreme Council considered and rejected in its own time. I sent him to read again. He's on our committee right now. The government bill does not include a number of important tasks of the Ukrainian strategy for the future in the field of migration. The MP's bill is much more qualified, each article is written much more literate, more reasoned, and this is the result that it is the MP's bill that has been prepared by famous experts in this matter. Mikola Alexandrovich Schulga, who had just reported on his bill, was in his time the minister of Ukraine in matters of nationality and migration created this ministry, knows these problems perfectly. Heidosh, Istwan Haydosh, knows the problems of the border regions. So our committee has decided to recommend that you adopt a bill. He's clean, he's a non-liberal bill, he's not trying to complicate or resolve the relationship between different government institutions. I ask you to press the buttons and support the bill of your colleagues, our national deputies. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u126	Let me finish. Questions. Gennady Josephovich. Is there a question for a coconspirator? There's a question about Karmazin, and I see there are hands. Please sign up. Please record the question. Carmazine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Hennadia Josephovich! I've heard your speech carefully, but I'm impressed that your committee, unfortunately, has some terrible things in that project that you're proposing to accept, I haven't noticed. I'd say anti-government stuff. So it's suggested in article 5 that we write: "Association with the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the Field of Inter-State Adoption" in 1993. And it provides for the possibility of having children removed from Ukraine without a court ruling on adoption, which is not in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine and that we have already been in that country. Next. It also foresees an anti - government issue in this article: adaptation of migrants, psychology, hardships, and so forth. It's all at the state's expense, government policies instead of creating other conditions for those who live in that state. I'd like Gennady Josephovich to make it conceptual if.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u128	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the adaptation of migrants is a parliamentary bill that is indeed governed by the international agreements that Ukraine has joined. And we really need to promote adaptation of migrants, those who are still living in Ukraine on legitimate grounds, I'm not talking about illegal migration. And I've been to Odessa recently, and I'm very sorry that you weren't at this event, where I met refugees who are now in Ukraine. And God willing to sing Ukrainian songs like the niggers of Africa sing because they felt like people here. That's the first one. So there's nothing anti-government about this concept of the Law of People's Deputies. It's about the kids. There are different situations. Well, let's rule out this position if it's going to cause people's deputies that kind of negative reaction, that's all. That's what we take in the first reading. It's okay. Consider your comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u129	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u130	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Gennady Josephovich, the migration, is coming not only from the East but also from the East. Since ancient times, our oil companies have flown to the Yumen in order to develop oil and gas crops. Ukraine was given by this, by their tireless labor, oil, and gas. Today, do you know how many Ukrainians are constantly migrating in search of income to the East? And will this bill prevent them from seeking employment and income in the East? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u131	No, this bill will not interfere. Because I want to stress once again that this is a document on the basic principles of migration policy in Ukraine. We don't have strategies today. Including no answer to your questions. We want Carmazin to ask someone else a question at first. We need to make such living conditions in Ukraine, to ensure the high standard of living of our people that neither Ukrainians nor Jews nor anyone else leave our country in search of a better life abroad, a million. As far as Tumena is concerned. Our legislation, our existing legislation, it allows anyone to go out except those who are involved in criminal matters. This does not limit migration to the East. And today, in the East, our citizens have a lot of work and money. And we don't limit it, we don't limit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u132	Thank you. There are two suggestions. But I can see what's going on here. Let's go. Now, one minute. Carmazin’s replica. Prepare Puzakov for the performance. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u133	Yuri Carmazin. Gennady Josephovich, you know that all the sessions of the plenary I work in the hall, that's my main job. In Odessa, I meet people of different nationalities there regularly. But I'm against moving niggers from Africa to Ukraine, so that Ukrainians don't go from Ukraine to Africa. And so that we do not become Africans under the conditions of life, nor are we likened to them. So, Gennady Josephovich, I don't know why you said I was supposed to be there. As head of the committee, the official was there. And on this day, you know, I was doing some law-making work here. And as far as that's concerned. I suggested to you, let's remove two unacceptable moments from the MP's project and conceptually vote and that's it. That's the concept of the first reading problem. I call these problems an open name to protect Ukraine's national interests. I realize that we will not live as long as we live in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u134	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. From the rostrum comes the national deputy of Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u135	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. It is not a secret that every fifth working Ukrainian is working abroad today. They're not protected by any laws, I'm working illegally. This means that each of these illegals violates the laws of at least two States at the same time. The Government of those countries that are enriching them with almost free labour is easy to understand, for the Arab work of our countrymen is one of the conditions for the well-being of their countries. But Ukrainian officials think like government officials in coffeehouses, and they're actually counting how much dollars they're going to bring to Ukraine. What conditions do our people have abroad? We're all used to an eight-hour workday. And there are illegals working 12-18 hours, and there are all kinds of conditions and many cases where immigrants do not comply with payment arrangements because many cases where Ukrainian citizens have worked for some time with a private owner do not receive a penny. They were transferred to the police for deportation before they were calculated. Taking advantage of this, I will read a few words from a letter from an illegal teacher who asked for my help. "Save me, help me, because I worked in Greece for a year and a half. I've got nothing left. I didn't go there for a good life. I had to put two kids on my feet, and I ended up in a depository prison. If I had the opportunity to make money for my family in Ukraine, I would never have come to Greece. Help me." These words are echoed today by thousands of Ukrainian emigrants around the world. And it's sad that they don't all come home without money. And no matter what terrible conditions they live in, they hope that they will be brought out of there, unfortunately they do not. Capital slaves are growing every year. That is why, in adopting this bill, it is important to consider the protection of the rights of illegals and, above all, to create normal working conditions and living conditions in our country for every Ukrainian citizen. As much as the power of the property did not corrupt the Soviet regime, the Ukrainians were not slaves to capital, they lived in their country, with their families, taught and raised children, had constant work and confidence in tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u136	Basil Nadrag, please. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I understand so much that you've already formulated your opinion in reply. Well, I've already given my word to the Overself, then the next one is you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I think you and I are discussing a topic that we cannot ignore today. Why? Because migration has been, yes, and whether we want it or not, it will be. It will be at least because man will always look for a place where he can feed himself, raise his children, and build a house. Therefore, based on this logic, he is deeply convinced that today the adoption of the main approaches to Ukrainian State migration policy is relevant. However, I would like to say the following things. I think that both bills are worthy, and here, unfortunately, we have had an example where several bills put forward in the hall were not supported because the hall voted for one, well, for a maximum of two reasons. Therefore, I propose today that we, because the experts have worked on the subject, be supported by both bills, and we have already come up with some final solutions for the second reading. Because if we start voting again today for what we like or dislike, then we won't get the bill again. Although I would like to point out that the topic that is being discussed today, in my view, has been more fully reflected in the MP's bill, although not without problems. For example, I wonder why, as a measure of impact on migration, there is a proposal that the law provides for the so-called quota of migration, which is an area for abuse. We know how hard it is today to produce documents in all our OVIRAs and other licensing systems, and if we also write quotas by law, we can imagine who and what kind of money it will make. And that money will pass through the budget, and beyond the population, and so on, so to speak, will not benefit anyone except corruption. That's why I think it's quite possible to get these things out of the way for a second reading. Again, I appeal, in any case, as I have determined with my colleagues: we will vote for both first and second, because, in any event, today's basic decision on first reading, on the main approaches of State migration policy, should take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u138	Very briefly, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National MPs, as the government is now implementing migration policy, he has also presented a draft of the Basic Principles of State Migration Policy. So everyone said the project was irrelevant. Similarly, this migration policy is not important. "This government project is absolutely declarative, it does not contain legislative novelties, it merely repeats norms that are already regulated by the current Ukrainian legislation and do not need duplication," -- the end of the statement of the Main Scientific and Scientific Administration of December 28, 2003. What do you think changed after that? Did you bring it in for handouts? No, we didn't. No, they haven't changed anything. Why? And no matter what, there's a PUK, a parliamentary-government coalition, and they vote on everything that's brewing in the government. They will not vote, and thank God that they have made an alternative project. I've already pointed out in my questions that there are positive points in this alternative project, and there are serious points. For example, in the same article I criticized, there is such a positive moment as the increase in the states of Ukrainian consular institutions in those countries where the largest number of Ukrainian citizens are permanently or temporarily resident. And I have to tell you that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very bad for the Ukrainians who live in Moldova, particularly Transnistria, forgetting that this part has historically entered Ukraine and there are 60 percent of the population of ethnic Ukraine. And there today when you come, people ask questions all the time, they say, "Well, can't you add one consul to what we're talking about?".. I'm talking to the minister. To the Prime Minister, I am addressing the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Raise that question at the end! Now for the adoption of the MP's bill. I'd like to ask and now Mr. Shulga comes up, and we've been talking to him, and he agrees with me about removing the immigration policy from there, joining the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the Field of Interstate Adoption in 1993, because this treaty establishes a simplified administrative order for adoption, and allows children to be removed from Ukraine without an adoption court. I would ask you today, Mr. Chairman Alexander Alexander Zinchenko, to do as it was supposed to at the first reading conceptually, to make this proposal, i.e. with consideration and Shulga agrees, to remove this position so that it is not conceptually agreed, and to vote in favour of the parliamentary project and to call upon my comrades in faction, and the entire hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u140	Thank you. The offer is understood. Mikola Alexanderovich agrees, I see. Let's go to the vote. With the remarks made by the national deputy Karmazin, with whom the committee agrees, Mikola Alexandrovich Shulga, put to the vote the draft Law on the Basic Principles of the National Migration Policy of Ukraine. Project registration number 4227 with proposals, once again, Carmazina and Shulga. 4227-1! 4227-1! Please vote. "For" - 286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it's time for the question of "It's different." Light up, please. There's a recording going on, so get ready. Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Grimri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u141	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Each of us gets letters from voters, phone calls, and I want to let you know right now, I want to tell you about a letter from a teacher who worked her entire life in a village in the Brovar district of Kiev. At the beginning of her letter, she mentioned the events that took place in Lugansk in May of this year when the worker, driven to despair by his own direction, took up his rifle and went on to decide the issue of unpaid wages before his leadership. The management closed, he started to shoot down, at the door, but found himself not in it, caught not in the culprit who, instead of paying him his salary, but in his substitute, and unfortunately this person died a few decades after these injuries. And this person who did this said, "I'm sorry it didn't work out." I only mention this in view of the fact that such a situation is today, when our people are led to despair, they are no longer expecting any concessions from those who despise the people. And I'm just before the letter from Teacher Barry Eugenia Jacobney, who tells us how the distribution of land takes place in the village, and how this land starts trading under the carpet. And when did they offer to sell land a few dozen times more expensive? It's worth more than it's officially worth today when it looks like it's renting. And they suggested that one man turn to a higher authority. To what authority? She provided fine land for all of Brovarskys, the head of the village council. None of them will make her guilty, and those who are wronged right -- this man who has failed in everything. She continued to say such words when the teacher reminded her of the events that took place in Lugansk. They have, in those who have stolen land, seals in their hands, they will wave it and there will be law. What are you going to do about it? And this man, driven to despair, said, "War is so war, so what do you do. We have to make a war." So what I want to say is, I want to remind you of a poem by the Forest of Ukraine, "Men are interesting or in."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u142	The word has been given to the national deputy of Gmir. Puzakov instead of Gmiri. Prepare the Homutinian.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u143	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština There is no truth in children that today, unfortunately, 70 percent of the children of dependent parents are trained on 4 and 5 in the 12 - ball system. In families of poor parents, this figure is 30.6 percent. In addition, nearly 50 percent of children in foster families learn foreign languages, learn music, have tutors, and, despite lack of talent, receive a number of benefits. And the principles of State support for gifted children today are uncomfortably discussed, for gifted children in the country have been abandoned. And until Ukraine is capitalist, full development of personality will be impossible. Even if economic factors could be rejected, they have done their job morally. That's what it is. Since ancient times, the Ukrainian nation has been considered to be one of the most intellectually developed. What did they do to this nation today, Ukraine? We are witnessing that the minds of the state are not needed, they are making money, giving up their talents and even their lives for a penny. One out of five Ukrainians on earnings in Russia, Greece, Israel, Italy, the United States, and other nations of the world. And these special programs have already begun active work on the preparation and export of talented youths. Higher education in Ukraine is a privilege for rich people only. Today, the state cannot guarantee gifted children and gifted young people sufficient opportunities for intellectual, spiritual, and cultural development. That's right, higher education is a privilege for the rich. Upon graduation in one of the schools in Kyrovgrad, he learned that only seven out of 74 graduates were willing to continue their studies in higher education institutions, or out of the 25,000 graduates of peduniversity, only red graduates were employed. Where, then, can we share a diploma about higher education? One way out is to trade beer and Turkish grain in markets. Is the state not ashamed, does the government not care that 49 percent of young people agree to leave Ukraine in any country of the world? It's a terrible tragedy. This once again speaks of the anti-national nature of today's system of power, in which there is no clear objective of internalizing Ukraine in the interests of everyone, of building Europe in Ukraine, not of stretching Ukraine around Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u144	Instead of the Homutinian, there is a national deputy, Stoyan. Prepare for Rodion. We're out of the rostrum, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u145	Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, National Deputies! I want to draw your attention to the citizens of Ukraine who are now listening to us, to the situation that took place at the Straw. I'm going to say that in Truscavek, our stock company is a successful company, one of the best not only in Ukraine. In 2003, its sanatoriums were recognized as one of the best of the 44 states in the world, according to the International Federation of Ballenology and Curortology. With 43 percent of the remaining seats, or less than half of all places in Truscavec, our sanitariums paid over 17 million in the past year. taxes, of which six million are income taxes, five times as much as all the sanatoriums operating in the territory of the Rabbit. Thus, by chance, the Medvedchuk brothers had already reached such a beautiful piece by fabricating a report in the name of the President of Ukraine, and by doing so, they had organized a total sanatorium examination, tasking them to bring the Crimes Director General of Trascavets-Kurort, Bogdan Sednichuk to justice. The commission sent them found no basis for the crime. And in order to take a professional health care professional to the property fund and then privatize them, so Victor Medvedchuk kicked out of the government the extension of the inspection period and obliged him to carry out the commission, quote: "...in full measure." To the honor of the government, the re-examination was objective, but that once again did not satisfy Medvechuk. Victor Medvedchuk removed the third deadline from the government. Today, I learned that the Lviv County DPA had extended the check period to 60 days, that is, all summer. I also learned that today the tax commission was sealing supplies in Truscaveca. Thus, there were thousands of people left without food who had come for treatment. They break into rooms where they relax from Israel, Germany, our citizens, and check their travels. The principal organizer of these crimes is Mr. Gretzak, the mayor of the city, who led the Carpathian sanatorium in his time, successfully handed it over to the needy. In this regard, please consider my statement to be an official statement on behalf of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I want to tell Mr. Medvedchuk, you can bring the crime of a loved one to justice, but you will not be able to take care of professional health workers. Almost 100,000 of our citizens are treated in Truscavek each year, 40 percent on the course of benefits, and today our travels are 30 percent cheaper. I call on the President of Ukraine to curb the appetite of the head of the Victor Medvedchuk Administration and to withdraw my commission for the endless examination of the Truscavite-Kurort sanatorium, the excitement of the multi-million-dollar labour force and the persecution of the Director-General of Osadchuk Bogdan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u146	Instead of Doroguntsov, the national deputy of Rodionov is speaking, preparing for the Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u147	Respectable radio audiences, distinguished people's deputies. Today it is not only the lazy who mocks the power. And I'll say it's quite certain, it's for what. I'm just going to remind you of a very fresh example. The Minister of Defence Marchuk recently reported on the reform of the Armed Forces and spoke very carefully about the Kiev military figure, the former Suvorov School. So this whole school thing is going on, and someone really needed this greedy piece. And instead of Suvorovsky School, which had been in Soviet times for more than 50 years, they wanted young children to go out into the woods and move the generality here, whether it was even higher. It's the style of that power. But I want to talk about a friend. It is said that a campaign for the election of the President of Ukraine has been launched shortly, but the media has long launched this campaign and it is strange that two Victors will come out on the second round: Viktor Yushchenko and Viktor Yanukovic, that the former two Prime Ministers will change and that some of this will change. I would like to say that the radio audiences can be added to this couple, as well as Leonida Kuchma, as well as Kinaha, as well as Kirpa, as well as other supporters of capitalism. But I want to tell you for sure that none of this will change, because all of these people are involved in the current state of Ukrainian society, and this state of Ukrainian society -- you don't have to use communist propaganda -- you can illustrate the facts that are in all sources. I am referring to a well-known statement by President Kuchma in 2000, where Kuchma said that the current society was in a state that preceded the second half of the nineteenth century, that is, the state of the socialist revolution. And that's right. But it's been four years -- nothing's changed. It can only change when people understand: power must work for the people. Therefore, when the Communists go to the President's election, they think it will be our candidate, that eventually people will understand: only when they give the Communists a vote will they do what they need for people. So the Communists are ready to take responsibility for the years of the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u148	Paul Matthew. It's a faction of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u149	Gregory Bondarenko, 92nd constituency, Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! On Wednesday we voted for constitutional change. They didn't do it the way they wanted to. As it was, you know, you shouldn't talk. Let me tell you something. We are now in a situation where everyone is convinced that political reform is needed. At the same time, we are doing everything we can to ensure that this reform does not take place. Most of the anger of your line, your minority. Although this has already been burned, the constitutional vote has failed once. Right now, at this stage, we need to focus our efforts on increasing the efficiency of power. This was discussed yesterday by the president of Ukraine in the pioneer camp Artek. [[In the past, he was called that.]] It's a pattern of this kind of action, it's a general idea. Parliament forms a parliamentary coalition, the coalition forms a government. Several ministers are appointed by the President, the rest by the Prime Minister. Anything else can and will not be touched. We don't have to go ahead with a valid constitution. It's a dangerous road. And then we should think about how to do what is proposed. Just a few examples, briefly. We are urged, let us say, to the standard according to which the Supreme Council should work under the Rules rather than under the Rules Act, as required by the valid Constitution, and which, unfortunately, has not yet been done. Let's ask ourselves what we want. Do you want the Rules and Violations that exist today to continue? In the future, the Constitutional Court should not be able to say its word on Parliament’s action if necessary. This is the first time. The other one. He'll call. and efforts to eliminate the formation of the Constitutional Court as authoritative and competent in this regard as the assembly of judges of Ukraine. And to put it mildly, I would like to smile when you read a proposal that allows the judges of the Constitutional and Supreme Courts to be in office for up to 65 years as they are now and up to 75 years. Some may want to spend five years at work, but the trial will not improve. After all, the proposed standard is discriminatory with regard to judges who may be in office only up to 65 years of age. And there's a lot of paradoxes like that. Irreparable optimists on all television channels are already excited, with 276 votes cast. My dears, this is not a success! It takes 300. At least 300. To achieve this, we need to work. I give due consideration to a temporary commission that worked and worked on constitutional changes. Many have done, in particular, Alexander Moroz, Stepan Gavrish, but we have not achieved what a voted project would have to be done, not with everyone, but with everyone else: with the right, with the left and so on. So by autumn, we have to reconcile everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u150	Olga Hinsburg has words. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u151	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I want to bring one problem to the discussion today so that you can listen to it, about the honorary donors of Ukraine and the Soviet Union. And here's a letter from Zharavkina Alla Vasilovna of Šostka, who writes that "We, the honourable donors of Ukraine and the USSR, in Tom, the number of pensioners of the town of Šstka Sumska District, have no regrets of strength and health, saved the lives of many people who later benefited our society. Why, now that we have wasted our health, and we need material support, at least to acquire the same 50 per cent discount, we are denied this, as provided for in the "Donor Blood and its Components" Act 1995. This law provides for an additional 20 per cent of the minimum pension. Now the minimum pension is 90 greven. Why, then, are we paid four bracelets, even though no one has repealed the law? When our health and the health of our loved ones are in danger, we are willing to pay any price for blood just to save the life of our neighbor. So why are these donors forgotten today? In view of this, we very much ask you to implement immediately all the benefits provided for in the Blood Donor Act 1995 and its components, including 20 per cent of the allowance, which is 18 bracelets. Give donors information on why it's only four bracelets now, and whose decision it is. If this is a decision of the deputies, what factions and how they voted.” Respectable comrades! Using the rest of my time, I would like to address my constituents and my colleagues today to congratulate you all on the eve of Lenin Komsomol's birth. And I want to tell you, you remember, the song was in the '20s, the '20s were flying over the world, the '20s were staring you in the eye, the evil wheels were taking you away, the legends would tell you what you were like." And he sang: "You have found happiness in the world, and it is from Kuzbass, and it is from the Magnificent, and all the earth and all the expanse of space. And I want to tell you that you always feel like flying when you want to get your head out of the sky, when you're doing something good for the community and for the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u152	Thank you. The word is John the Rabbit. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u153	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies, June 28th Ukraine will celebrate the Day of the Constitution. I want to welcome you to this holiday. The Constitution is a state passport. The Constitution sets out the parameters of the state, the relations of power and citizens, the parameters of citizens' rights and the means of ensuring them. The adoption of the Constitution in 1996 resulted in the completion of a system of establishing documents for the new Ukrainian State. The adoption of the Constitution cut the cord that bound the Ukrainian people with the colonial period of their existence. The current Constitution was adopted in 1996 in the face of a fierce struggle between the national democratic forces and the left forces, the opponents of the Ukrainian state. And a very good document came out. And when they say today that we have a bad constitution, I say to those people, "We have some kind of political elite who doesn't want to celebrate a Constitution that doesn't respect laws." Therefore, the problem is not in the Constitution, but in those who exercise power today and who are called upon to ensure compliance with the Constitution. And what has recently been voted here in the Supreme Council, the 4180 bill, under which the Constitution is overturned, is not political reform, is political technology as a way of changing the Constitution to leave this ruling regime in power and how to deceive people, how not to let people form that power that really makes their lives normal. People will go to the President's elections with an active constitution, and it says that you will elect a President, and before that President will be the head of the state administrations, district and district, the Cabinet of Ministers, that the Supreme Council will be politically structured. But when this President, elected by the people under this authority, makes an oath in this room, he will immediately become another President. He will no longer have this Cabinet of Ministers in charge, before that President will no longer be in charge of the heads of state administration, there will be no coalition in the Supreme Council that will indeed be responsible for the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, a step toward the coup d’état of Ukraine has recently been taken in this room. And whoever's protecting the 4,180 amendments to the Constitution, he's protecting the oligarchs, he's protecting the Mafia, he's protecting the people who are destroying the Ukrainian state today. Changes to the Constitution are a geopolitical process aimed at destroying the power experience we've gained over the past 10 or 13 years, a project to destroy Ukrainian statehood, a project to take power away from its people, a project that prevents people from controlling their power. So I call upon all the national MPs, do not commit a crime against your people, do not make those changes to the Constitution, because there is no good for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u154	Andrew School has the word to prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u155	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to stress first that we're really going to have 28 numbers to celebrate Constitution Day. We, I say, will celebrate this celebration by those who respect the existing Constitution, those who want to build democracy in Ukraine by means of the Constitution, not to deny, not to trample upon the rule of law of the state under which this state is to live. Therefore, those who want to destroy the Constitution now will not, for it is not their holiday, to trample and tear it apart in the eyes of a astonished and destitute nation. Whoever wants to reform to destroy the Constitution has to make it clear that they have to go to the same rostrum and say: we want to destroy the Constitution first, then destroy the Ukrainian state, then destroy everything that's here, because to believe that you can change the structure of power, and then change the elite, that's the same thing as believing that a wagon tied up in front of a mare would be better to drive than vice versa. This is the same logic that works. So any reform is needed where necessary. And reforming the Constitution will be a right and authority that has the highest confidence in its own people. This authority, which has two millimeters or two centimeters, or two percent of the trust in its own people, has no right to reform anything; it has the right only to voluntarily exercise its authority and to be able to leave the place where the people will express their anger. So this is today's gang that's forcing those people who may still believe that through the reform of the Constitution something can be changed in this state, it forces them to destroy with their own hands the state for which they speak. And one more thing. I'd like to say that the election really started. And this fever in the reform process, they're actually the answer to the campaign that started. It always begins by raising such a dirty, unclean, opaque, cloudy wave. It's the best we can do. There is a Medvedchuk who knows how to do this, and there are media outlets that clearly carry out all these commands. But most importantly, the provocateur time is about to begin. It is a concept like the time of the wolf us. It comes at the break of day and night, one age and another. Now comes the time of the provoker. And I would like to state that UNA-UNSO, the public organization I lead, has no relation to that action that will be conducted by a pack of stinking provokers tomorrow, Saturday. It's going to be called something like this, that we, anti-Semis, simpler -- idiots, we're going to act in support of Yushchenk and thus discredit him. I'm going to emphasize once again that it says this is the 14th anniversary of the creation of the UNA. UNA was created on November 10, and the 14th anniversary will be the end of the electoral process. That's why these itchy-on-hand provokers are going to do it tomorrow. That's why I'm stressing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u156	Victor Taran has the word. Get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u157	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! In the English newspaper Independent, there were materials that shed light on who was the customer, who was in charge of the dirty murder of Guy Gongadze. These documents show that Kuchma, the direct contracting party for the murder of journalist Gia Gonadze, was Kravchenko, another officer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And these materials that have flown around the world give evidence of militias being interrogated by investigators. And in view of the fact that materials are being destroyed here, in Ukraine, in the Gongadze case at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that the people who were investigating the case today are actually being eliminated, but the printed materials show the real reason. And so our faction in the Yulia Block of Timoshenko strongly insisted that if we wanted the state to be democratic, normal, we should first listen to the prosecutor here, listen to all the people involved. But instead, the prosecutor's office is giving us a false, provocative application to the Supreme Council to throw Yulia Timoshenko into prison, and for our faction, it's already symptomatic, because there were the same motions, similar to the filing of stupidity on Stephen Cloud, on Alexander Turchinov. And that's the style of action of today's prosecutor's office. And so in order to do what you have to do, you have to do the majority that you have. Listens to the President, let's say this isn't a question being considered, it's a question of changing the current Constitution. And the technology of all these changes is one thing -- to leave Kuchma in power by making him Prime Minister, and it doesn't matter who he is. If he has unlimited authority, he too will be a dictator. And dictators weren't just dictatorial presidents, they were Chancellors, for example, Hitler, for example, Franco, for example, Stalin, who had such a modest position -- Hensek -- and so on. And that's why all of this garbage is being set up to distract people, the whole lot with the change in the Constitution. But it's cheating on you. Because when the President, the presidential candidate, goes to the polls, he'll promise to do something under today's Constitution. When the Constitution is changed, he will not fulfill his duties. And that's why the last hope for this election is for you, dear citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u158	The word has been given by the people’s deputy Melnik. Get ready, Bulby. People's deputies would like to prepare more carefully. The word has been given to the national deputy of Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u159	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Communist Party. Dear colleagues, voters! The lives of Ukrainian citizens in the state itself should be one that provides the necessities of life. The reality is that it was only possible for the Soviet authorities to do so. Today, similar guarantees are declared by the Constitution of Ukraine, and life support is not found because of the presence of anti - national authority, its immorality. Today, unfortunately, it is not the national electorate who determines foreign policy, but the officials of the President’s Administration. Therefore, the desire of the executive branch to resolve its personal whims is confirmed. And we have succeeded in forcing the Presidential majority and part of Yushchenka's team to send our occupying, not our peacekeeping contingent to Iraq. No matter whose back the authorities hide: the American, the UN, we better get out of here until we are alone and the people of Iraq are angry against Ukraine. The representative of the Iraqi political group, Iman Saadun, may be warned: "I very much ask the Ukrainian people to return the military contingent from Iraq. No one wants to see the invaders in their own country with guns in their hands. If your children came to visit our country, we would welcome them with an open heart, as we did before. The conclusion of the Ukrainian army is required by the majority of Ukrainian citizens, especially the areas where the first human executions are carried out: Herson, Zitomir. Veterans in the Herson region demand that the Supreme Council order to allow NATO troops into Ukraine, to ban flights of American aircraft in the Black Sea. We do not want war and do not want to be trampled on by foreign soldiers! The representatives of the region’s representative bodies are solidarityd with veterans. At a time when there is not enough money to make a major improvement in the lives of the people, the restoration of production, free treatment, billions of dollars are wasted on war with the people of Iraq. We are ashamed to be citizens of the occupying country. I have received many written references, as a national deputy. I'm handing them over to the Supreme Council. For example, the people of the Stanislav community say, "Mr. President, by sending Ukrainian boys to this criminal oil war, you referred to God's help. Help who? To those who bombed and killed our Slovenian brothers in Yugoslavia yesterday." Dear voters! In support of the position of the Ukrainian public, the faction of the Ukrainian Communist Party in Parliament demanded and requires an independent foreign policy, a return of compatriots to their homes. The power of trust has run out. We choose a Communist president, we save the state, we restore the people! To be completed. All citizens of Ukraine welcome to the 85th anniversary of Komsomol. The story of Komsomol, the history of the people, must be confirmed and preserved forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u160	The word is given by the national deputy, Stepan Bulba. Get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u161	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear radio listeners! Yesterday, the Supreme Council voted for the judges on another occasion. Not all of the candidates have been elected, which has generated the approval of my voters. People do not believe in the rule of law and have a basis for it. Here's an example. More than a year ago, I was approached by a large group of retired former civil aviation pilots from Poland, Hersonish, and other areas. After the adoption of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act in November 1999, their pension was increased. Yet, on July 5, 2001, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Helen Garjacha, sent a letter to the district office of the Pension Fund, in which she suggested that the pension of the pilots was overstated. In line with Mrs. Hotchýa’s point of view, part of the district authorities immediately reduced their pensions. This obvious violation of the law caused mass appeals to the courts. The courts first decided on behalf of the plaintiffs. But since May 20, 2003, things have changed. The same courts have come to the very opposite conclusion. On June 20, 2003, I asked the Supreme Court for an answer. I quote: "According to the relevance of the question raised and to the ambiguity of the legal position of the courts in this category of cases, a decision has been made on the conduct of work related to the application of legislation to refer the findings of the Trial Chamber to civil matters in this matter to the courts of other institutions." As we can see, a simple bureaucratic discount. I have to ask again. In addition, a group of national deputies was invited to the Constitutional Court. During the days of Helen Hotch, she told me that she had long recalled that evil letter. The problem would seem to be exhausted. Yet nothing has changed. Some retirees receive higher pensions, others one third smaller, even though we live in the same state where the law is the same. The most interesting thing is that even in the Supreme Court, some judges make decisions on behalf of former airlines, others on the contrary. This problem is obvious for the Supreme Court, either insurmountable or not worth the attention of such a high state institution. It is surprising that citizens do not believe in the authorities at all and in the gardens, in particular. Please consider my statement as a request to the head of the Supreme Court. I hope this time to get an answer essentially. And for those who don't want to change, like in such cases, people have expectations, if those who are now acting as if they're trying to change, they don't want to do anything to change the system of power. Without changing the system of power, nothing will change. So socialists for changing the system of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u162	The word has been given by the people’s deputy Melnik. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u163	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear Chairman! Deputies! In recent times, there has been quite a lot of controversy around the earth. The country’s land reform ideologists, unfortunately too, have stalled the land reforms and have just fallen into a trap from which there is no way out. I'm talking about renting land with a lease to get a loan and a mortgage bank. After giving peasants State acts of private property rights to force the land to produce, not to grow in weeds, land reform ideologists need to give the least instructions on how to make land a mortgage bank, that is, a land bank. So far, a number of experts and scientists have not been able to work out the concept but also to see the prospect of a stalemate except for a single set of land with individual rich people, and after a mortgage as a means of obtaining a debt loan. Sadly, such an approach is not available today. From here, I want to stop at two questions. First. The right of ownership of the land and the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine in accordance with article 13 of which the land is an object of the right of ownership of the people. The second paragraph of this article states that every citizen has the right to use natural objects, the right to own a nation according to law. Sooner or later, the basic law, the Constitution of Ukraine, will have to be enforced regardless of the opinion of the majority or minority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Or change individual articles of the law on land ownership. I also want to look briefly at the issue of financial and credit security for agriculture and other activities, using even the experience of the United States. In the United States, there is a law that was passed in 1933, and it retains its power and authority today. It states that the interest rate on loans cannot exceed six percent a year, and we have 22 percent. If this decision is not carried out, a fine of up to $10,000 is imposed in court or in the case of a natural person for up to ten years or both. So it is appropriate for us to develop and adopt, in the United States of America, the draft Ukrainian Law on Protection of Existing National Dangers, Dangers in Banking and Other Cases. This will also meet the requirements of article 19 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which requires that it be legal. In Ukraine it is based on principles that no one can be forced to do what is not provided for by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u164	Stepan Cloud, prepare Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u165	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to welcome you to the Day of Constitution with a celebration that we will celebrate in two days. Today’s Constitution was born in an extremely difficult and stubborn struggle. And it should be noted to the honor of the 1996 Parliamentary Assembly that then we, the national deputies, turned away Leonid Kuchma’s attempt to establish an authoritarian dictatorship of the criminal oligarchy and its. Today, there is a large-scale attack on democracy in Ukraine. And one of these is an attempt to eliminate the conquests of the Ukrainian people, which are enshrined in the Constitution. Those who want to change the Constitution want to throw Ukraine away from democracy. Which is only worth the 81st article of the Constitution of the voted draft two days ago, where, for example, a national MP who has been removed from the faction or has been expelled from the faction, has been deprived of a parliamentary mandate to direct the party with which he came to Parliament. This would mean that not only the elimination of parliamentaryism and the MP as an individual, but it would not contribute to the development of democratic parties, but it would strengthen the Constitution to build totalitarian parties where the dictatorship of leaders would not allow for the development of democracy and corresponding parliamentaryism. Today's adventures around the Constitution are not only an attempt to remain in power by those who have usurped it today, but also to prevent change for the better and to avoid responsibility for the crimes committed by today's authorities and, in particular, its guarantor, the President of Ukraine. Recent publications in the English newspaper Independent reveal new facts of terrible crimes hanging over current state leaders, particularly the President of Ukraine. And it's very embarrassing that Parliament is completely blocking the consideration of this issue -- the murder of Gongadze, the commission of inquiry, and the report of the Attorney General. Instead, the Attorney General’s Office makes dirty orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u166	Lilia Grigorovich has the floor. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u167	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable voters, I have the highest honour, on behalf of the faction Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine" to welcome the entire Ukrainian great community with the celebration of the Constitution, the best Constitution in Europe, or at least one of the best, and to wish all of us that we finally have the authority to carry out this best constitution of ours. So we really are approaching the time of "C" when we are the mother of the authority that will exercise responsibility both to God and to present and future generations. And I firmly believe that we will have such authority, and we will preserve our Constitution. My conviction is that today the Ukrainian people are the only ones they have ever met. We are all united by the lowest wage and pension in Europe, the lowest in Europe, the lowest social standards in Europe, and I am confident that everything will happen as our Constitution speaks or proclaims. We will have the authority to exercise accountability to God, to present and future generations. Dear voters, respectable citizens of Ukraine! We have all witnessed that this week, many believers with slogans were held near the walls of the Supreme Council, with calls for our parliament not to support a bill that provides for codification, violent, deliberate, citizens of Ukraine, non-believers. I want to point out the position of the faction "Our Ukraine": we also support the intentions and preferences of the believers, and more than that, we share them, and not just by word, but by deed, because the deputies of our faction -- Vladimir Bondarenko and Boris Bespali -- have drafted a special bill that makes it impossible or warrants respect for the rights of believers and does not force them into so-called special so-called coding. So I want to publish this position for the entire Ukrainian community, and above all for the believers of all religions. At the same time, I would like to warn you that at this time when we're approaching the time of "C," until we have fair and moral authority, we didn't use the name of God insinuating, because the people who went to the Supreme Council under the red flags on the one hand sang "Lords, have mercy" and on the other hand revolutionary songs. It seems to me that political brands should not be used primarily to those forces that have recently destroyed temples 10-15 years ago, trampled icons for other political purposes, because if we are Christians, when we are in pain the fate of young people in Iraq, the fate of those 5 million Ukrainian women who have been thrown out without contracts, without guarantees, which are not six people, as in the tragedy in Mariupol, but multiplied by a thousand, would have been killed in these years at the closes of Europe. And in view of that, I would like to ask those political powers: What, are five million women who do not believe in wages? Small political ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u168	Leonid Chernewicki has the floor. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u169	Dear Chairman, distinguished. the people's deputies are the only ones, the radios. Mostly, I'm talking to you. Leader of the Christian Liberal Party, Our Ukraine faction, Leonid Chernovetski. [[Two deputies, there's another one. Three]] I want to say that, yes, I must welcome the donors who chose me in Kiev and say that it is a great privilege for me to speak mainly to those who listen to radio and television, because, unfortunately, many of my questions do not find a solution in the hall because something seems to be wrong. I wanted some ideas for you to get out of today's situation. Well, first of all, I want to say that, to see what Ukraine might be like. Ukraine is located in the centre of Europe, a potentially very rich country capable of maintaining its citizens: pensioners, persons with disabilities, including the socially vulnerable, at a very high level, and there are no problems at all. There are other problems. There are problems of power, which, unfortunately, is a local one that is not at all concerned with specific citizens at all. [[and above is 100 per cent]] How do I dream of seeing Ukrainian power in the future? Of course, every official starting his day from the head of the district administration and above must always speak not in the interest of the area, but start his day with the simplest things: he must ask his deputies, his assistants - who is the most vulnerable, who can't leave his apartment to buy food or just defend himself in court. I dream that judges will carry out the basic function of the Constitution when they are guided by God’s principles and protect the weak from the powerful. This is a very important constitutional principle and it is as if our Constitution can only justify itself. Finally, since I only have three minutes to say good-bye to those who listen to our broadcast, call your elderly parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u170	Igor Šurma. We're risking it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u171	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to focus on one fact. Apparently, there were no two national deputies in Parliament’s history, Alexander Alexiyovich Zinchenko, who presided over the Shurma Igor. The room, which houses 450 deputies, is empty. And if you go back and look at the way passions have been brewing all week here in the session hall, you can ask yourself questions, and where are the political forces today that stand up for their positions when they talk about political responsible authority, about the legality of MPs. No one can be seen today. You can't see the national Democrats, you can't see the other political forces. With 2 minutes in order, I'd like to bring to your famous position of factions that are in the majority form of political reform in Ukraine. And I think everyone today is ready for that situation when they want to have political power in their country. And today, the moment that comes before the President's election, it's extremely relevant, because everyone understands perfectly, no matter what name, name, name, name, name, name, name, will have a new President, no change to the Constitution will he want. Every person who takes the seat of the acting President of Kuchma will want to come to his office and ask everyone on whom it depends, give me proper authority, as a minimum, those who had my predecessor in order to bring the country in order. And the system of things in the country can be what not only the newly elected president wants but also his environment. Hence, people today who listen to the radio should know one thing. The declarations that are at the rally, which call for political reform, are dry declarations, because two bills on political reform have been put into the hall, and the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" bloc have not voted for it. And when Victor Yushchenk, the leader of the "Our Ukraine" bloc, was asked to confirm that he would actually vote for the bill that he wanted in the summer and in the fall, there was no positive answer. So I'm pleased to say that the political reform followers of the SDPU Party voted in favour of the two bills and thus confirmed that the polytreform for us is more than anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-25-m0.u172	The "Victory" issue is closed. For the transcript, we will note that the draft Law on the Basic Principles of the State Migration Policy of Ukraine 4227-1 has been voted on as the basis, i.e. in the first reading. I would like to welcome once again all our radio and television audiences with the Day of the Constitution, the desire for health, all kinds of good things, the real realization of our people’s wishes and the guarantee of the rights of our citizens. Happy birthday. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on June 29, 2004.
