ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:44]] There were 428 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Topolovo Viktor Semenović. Let's welcome Victor Semenovich, we wish for all kinds of good things. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Sigala Evgen Jakovič from the Socialist Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups has decided on the schedule of meetings for the plenary week of December 21-24 and the order of the consideration of individual issues. We agreed that the 2005 budget issue would be discussed tomorrow. Accordingly, the schedule for Tuesday was established. You have a list of questions. Let us go to their consideration. There are motives for expressing your position. Three minutes, please sign up, Your Honor. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs, please show them what they've registered. Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky, faction of our Ukraine. Please. Mikolo Grigorovich, to whom you give the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u2	I'm asking you to pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u3	Mikola Tomenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we would like to point out that this week is extremely important, and Victor Yushchenka's bloc wanted Parliament to determine during this week and put points above "and" in all the economic issues that remained owed by the government of Viktor Yanukovic. And in the New Year, Parliament has to do everything we can to get New Year's Eve out of the situation with the understanding that our citizens will get salaries, pensions, pensions. Local budgets will certainly look to the future. And in addition, we need to work actively this week to ensure that no issue of fair and democratic elections comes out of Parliament's perspective. Under such conditions, both voting and preparation for the New Year will be at an appropriate level, and Parliament will look like the body that controls all these two principles of important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u5	Turmanov, faction of Ukraine, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I've just returned from the county. 59th District, Donetsk Region, "Regions" faction. I would like to read out the public address of Ukrainian citizens. The new Law on the Specificities of the Ukrainian Elections Act of 26 December 2004 of 08.12.2004 stipulates that voting outside the voting room may only be carried out by voters who are disabled and unable to move on their own. As war veterans, we believe that the law adopted violates our constitutional right to vote. Among us are many sick people who are at home and cannot move on their own without being disabled by the first group. What a mockery, and what cynicism the so-called popular electorate showed when they found that the application was submitted with a certified copy of the pension certificate, i.e. notarized pension certificate. It's at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u7	Vladimir Puzakov, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u9	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u10	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction insists that by the time the 2005 budget, the 2005 State Budget, will be reviewed and decided today to approve the 2005 subsistence minimum, thus placing one of the main indicators in the budget. This is the first time. Secondly, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask, on behalf of the faction, to immediately put in order of the day and vote on Project 6416, the author of our Masenko faction, to solve the problem of participation of veterans, pensioners, the elderly in the December 26, 2004, elections. Regrettably, the initiative of some politicians, who advocate the interests of their candidate for more than 3 million citizens of Ukraine, is practical.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the proposals we made yesterday, we discussed the matter. I'd like the committee to consider the problem tomorrow and then. Dear colleagues, one minute, the committee will consider, the committee will consider, and we will put it to a vote on Thursday. The committee is due on Wednesday. Well, Your Honor, we made a deal. We'll insist, we'll put it to a vote on Thursday. Well, Your Honor, please. We discussed this at the Conciliation Council. Please. Let's put it to a vote. I'll have the papers, I'll put them to a vote. Well, I don't have any papers to put to the vote right now? Peter Mikolaiovich. Well, please, I want to say again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote after the meeting, the committee will make a decision. He won't take a decision. I'll put it to a vote. Please. Dear colleagues, please calm down! Yesterday, I put the vote on the Conciliation Council, not a decision taken. Please, calm down! Please calm down! We don't have to give Masenko an explanation. As we look at it, Masenko will explain. You don't have to, dear fellows! We have a deal: Wednesday. I want to say again, dear colleagues! Well, can you listen or not? I want to say again, we have a committee meeting on Wednesday. If the committee doesn't consider this issue on Wednesday. Well, wait! I want to say again, dear colleagues, Wednesday's committee meeting. If the committee does not address this issue, the vote on Thursday will be put to a vote on the agenda of 6416. Dear colleagues, Wednesday, if you don't mind. Well, listen! I want to say again: Your Honor, if the committee doesn't consider it on Wednesday, Thursday will be on your request for a vote. Adam Ivanovich was entrusted with the task of compiling a committee, honorary colleagues. The committee didn't meet. If he doesn't meet this Wednesday, Thursday on your request, that's the question. Well, it's respectable colleagues. Well, calm down! A question will be put to the vote on Thursday. All of it. Please calm down! The draft decree is announced for consideration: the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Tomenko, please report. [[Well, please calm down! Calm down! Incorruptible, please hold a meeting or one of the deputies]] Well, I'm asking you, honourable national deputies, I'll explain again. Dear colleagues, it will be Thursday if the committee does not consider it. Well, sit down, I'll put up, sit down! Sit down, please! I'll put you to a vote, just sit down, please! What's "Masenko one minute" for?Oh, my God! Stop it! What's one minute? Calm down! Sit down, please! Calm down, please. Please, calm down, please. Sit down. Well, what does that have to do with you? I'm asking the secretariat to give me this document so I can read it, this document. Please. Dear National Deputies! Please, have a seat. Please, sit down! I'll have the secretary right away. Calm down. I want to say it again. Sit down. I'll tell you what. Dear National Deputies! If I follow the Rules strictly, if I ask the Committee to listen carefully, but I don't want to make it worse -- if the committee has not considered it in defined terms, then at the request of the people's deputies, the question should be put into the session room. That's why I want to say it again. Can you listen or not? The Conciliation Council did not support this proposal, but there is an appropriate requirement, then let's do it now. Well, Victor Mikhailovich, you're working with the hall, not me. Well, once again, on demand, I have to bet, as I have done several times. Sit down, please! They'll give you papers, you just work in the hall, please, everyone. I'll do it again. Mikola Tomenko. Now we're looking at the question. Please. They'll bring the document, we'll look into it. I'm telling you again, I don't have an official document. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I am addressing our colleagues in Parliament. Here I saw in the morning there was a joint meeting between the factions of the regions and the communists. Let's consult, no questions asked, and vote with the package, vote with the package. Dear friends! The disclosure order is in principle no different from the previous document, the projected direct broadcast of the session and the radio, providing for the presentation of our constructive work as always on television. Today, we have no problems in our relationship with the National Council and the State Committee. TV and radio. And let me report, then we'll think about it. We still have the idea of implementing a flat-line discussion program on UT-1, and I'm absolutely convinced that today there's nothing that's keeping us from having a peaceful debate on the First National that changes the format of our activities. I don't think it's going to be illegal for people's members on live air to meet at the National Television Company, and I'm absolutely convinced that this is the norm of our decision to discuss direct-air discussions between national MPs on the First National Day. We foresee the active and serious development of our parliamentary channel, because in the perspective of civil television, the main focus on parliamentary education will lie on a satellite-cable parliamentary television channel that is now actively developing. We focused on the greater role of reporting the activities of the Supreme Council committees when the session did not plan to work in plenary mode, and on the proposals for the work of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, including reporting on the activities of factions, groups, committees, and on the rapid reporting of reports and on the submission of parliamentary factions by printing the results of the fractional, nominal vote. The decree takes into account all the things that have been debated. And we believe that there is no reason to stop the consideration of this decision, to sign all the agreements, and to keep the next session fully informed of what is going on in the Ukrainian Parliament's higher legislative body. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! There are some warnings about the draft decision. Please sign up for the reasons for the vote, three minutes. Boris Bespali, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Then Konovaluk will be motivated to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u14	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." We are, as always, the Victor Yuschenka Block "Our Ukraine" in favour of the maximum publicity of the Supreme Council meetings, because this is an element of voter control over MPs, and this is what we need, I emphasize, not MPs, this is what voters need first of all, and that is why we support in such an editorial this draft regulation. I'm just going to remind you that the very fact that the Supreme Council was broadcast made possible by a bill introduced by our own faction. At the same time, I think that any of our decisions matter when they are implemented, and that is why I have a request from the deputies to support this draft decision, and a request for the leadership of the Supreme Council, however, to find out where the broadcast of the Supreme Council meetings in certain regions is not yet being carried out, such cases, unfortunately, in some regions have room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u15	Valerius Konovaluk, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we also share the desire to realize and influence the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council in order for society to monitor the progress of events that are taking place, but I would like to add that we will support the draft of this decision, and we need to take into account what we are defining and conducting parliamentary hearings and on social issues also having the opportunity to provide certain information in society. And I would like to suggest that we, if the Committee will consider in the future issues of working with the regional media, which also affect public opinion, the position and consciousness of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u17	Yes, please, Omelyan Boy, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u18	May I have a word with Alexandrovsky?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u19	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u20	Alexandrovskaya, Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I, of course, believe that it is necessary to broadcast as widely as possible a meeting of the Supreme Council, at least for that reason, Vladimir Mihajlovich, so that the electorates can see: how often the mockery is being done here, in the walls of the Supreme Council. Last week, I distributed to the deputies a letter from the city council of the veterans of the city of Harikov, who were outraged that almost all had been deprived of their voting rights. The Constitution is being violated. Today, I have brought another letter from veterans saying explicitly that the new features of the application of the Ukrainian Electoral Act are that voting outside the premises is permitted only for the disabled of the first group. We war veterans believe that the law adopted violates our constitutional right to vote. Among us are many sick people who are at home and cannot move on their own without being disabled. And what a mockery and cynicism to demand of us. Copies. I request that the motion be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u21	Before the vote, the chairman of the committee shall request a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, there was a question or clarification from Mr. Konovaluk. I want to say that, according to the parliamentary hearings, we're doing it in a way that's done. You also know the position of the Committee of Rules, which I support in organizing parliamentary hearings. And in every parliamentary hearing order, we set a standard: to provide direct broadcasting there on radio and television. Depending on how the organizers of parliamentary hearings determine the significance, we put in place and, in principle, we have no problem with national television or radio companies not broadcasting parliamentary hearings. And the second position, in the regions, is what we do today. We have the opportunity today, according to our television directorate, to sign a contract with any regional television company or they can broadcast meetings directly, or let's say they can take any program prepared by the television director or our parliamentary channel to show, inform citizens. I mean, there's no problem here either. And regional television companies or radio companies have full free access to the entire database and to all the records and, in particular, the direct broadcast of the Supreme Council. So here we have no claim from regional television companies and I don't think we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. There's no warning, I can't see. May I have your attention, please? We're going to vote now. A draft decision is put to the vote for adoption as a whole as a decree on how to explain the work of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 6428. Please vote. [[10:23:27]] For 392 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the factions -- "Our Ukraine", BUT, as well as the factions of "Regions of Ukraine", "Trudova Ukraine", Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party, is being declared a 30-minute break, up to 10 55 minutes. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, I stress, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions please meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. At the request of two factions, a break was declared. Two groups of factions. Then I'd like to sit you down so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. During the break, which was announced on the demand of five factions, we held meetings of the Conciliation Council. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 6416 was discussed - "On Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Specific Application of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine in the Re-vote on 26 December 2004". The proposal for inclusion in the agenda to support a little more than 183 in the total population of Ukrainian national deputies. But in accordance with the Rules and on demand, I must put this matter to a vote. Please be careful. Puts the vote to the vote. Honorable fellow workers! — 2 Timothy 3: 1 Oh, take off the vote, please. From two factions, "Our Ukraine" and BUT took a break. Who will act? And I ask you to prepare yourself for the "Ukrainen Regions", "Urban Ukraine" and "SDPU," who will be speaking? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! I'd like to remind you of the package vote that took place two weeks ago in this room under the applause of the national MPs present. I was present at all the meetings of the conciliators, which took place with the participation of the leaders of all the factions. And it is those factions that today say that the law on amendments to electoral legislation needs to be changed that have insisted on voting through a package of amendments to electoral legislation, fair elections along with constitutional reform. Our faction repeatedly demanded that we pass a separate Law on Elections in the Hall and vote separately, discuss in the Hall, improve the Law, and make decisions separately. And first of all, I think the faction of Communists, the Social Democrats of the United and the "Regions" have brought this bill into the package. Why? Because they were not interested in the interests of the disabled or the pensioners, they were interested in their own mandates and in their own empowerment. And that's why they put this law in the package, and that's why they all voted, not even one. Look at the vote -- 100 percent of the communists, one hundred percent of the region, one hundred percent of SDPU, voted in favour of these electoral laws. Our faction did not take part, by the way, in this vote. So, your honorary colleagues, when it comes to changing electoral legislation today, there's only one explanation: voting day is coming up, a day is coming that will show how it happened last time, the day is coming when the elected national president Victor Yushchenko will be elected. And that's why they're nervous, which is why they want to be able to fake the results again. That is why they are now trying to falsify the elections by covering up for the disabled. So the honourable colleagues, any changes that will be made today, will destabilize the elections. They can only lead to another failure of the election campaign. So we insist that all the laws, all the changes, be voted on after the election campaign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u26	Please, Konovaluk Valerius Illich. Then Peter Simonck's lineup will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u27	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. I'm going to be less emotional because, really, the question concerns millions of our citizens. I think it's wrong today to compare voting changes to the Constitution. That's why we already had a precedent when we changed this law by voting for printing ballots on the Ukrainian polygraph. I want to say that our faction insists that, indeed, the constitutional rights of our citizens are violated. We have no moral right to leave people without the possibility of electing the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that there is already a constitutional application to the Constitutional Court, which concerns violations of individual rules and articles of the Constitution that restrict existing rights and violate the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. I want us to understand that. And to remind you that yesterday, during the debates on behalf of the presidential candidates, there was a repeated question about correcting this mistake and doing everything we could to vote on those defenseless types of people that really make up the elderly who make up the disabled of the second and third groups and others. I understand that this question raises doubts that both electoral law and election fraud will continue to be violated. But I want to remind you that the Supreme Council has made a decision, and we have changed not only the composition of the CBC but also the composition of the district and territorial commissions. It will be possible to control everything because more than 8,000 foreign observers are now being represented in Ukraine. So I'm calling on respectable colleagues who, first of all, support Victor Yushchenk, let's do everything we can to correct this mistake and so that voters who really want to influence and have constitutional rights can do that. I would like to invite everyone once again to consider this question, to support and do everything possible to ensure that there are no grounds then to accuse what will be done and voted on December 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u28	Yeah, it's a line. Peter Simonenko, please, microphone. And the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u29	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to reiterate that all charges against the Communist faction are another lie, which is only made for one purpose -- to exclude from the electoral process more than 3 million citizens who have the constitutional right to vote, but by age, by health, other problems cannot come to the field alone, and therefore we propose that they be allowed to appeal to the constituency in writing and invite those who will allow them to exercise their constitutional right. That's the first one. Second, it was a member of the BUT-Mattvienko faction at the Conciliation Council at the request of Suškević that he promised to make changes, but he cheated and did not change, and thus the Supreme Council, believing them, fulfilled that in the agreement on the Conciliation Council to vote in a package. That's why I'm convinced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u30	Igor Ostash, microphone, please. Dear colleagues, please, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u31	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you know, I have witnessed a professor's approach to calculating the number of people with disabilities in our country. At first it was 3 million, then it was 4, now it's 5 million, according to Mr. Yanukovic. I'd like to say that Minpraci's statistics were published yesterday. We have, in fact, about 2 million people now in charge, but a large part of them, a third of them can practically vote because it is under this law that the first group's disabled people have the right to vote at home. As for the disabled in the second and third groups, they are virtually all working. Moreover, each enterprise has 4 percent of these disabled people to work in their businesses. As far as European experience is concerned, virtually nowhere in Europe is there a vote at home, and we do not allow the constitutional right of these people to vote because there are open areas for them, and they can vote with the help of neighbors or members of the district committees or just local authorities. So I'd like to ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! You can't. About what? Dear colleagues! There's no such thing as procedure. There's no such thing. There is no procedure. I'm begging you, everyone's here. Calm down, dear fellows. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have, I understand, but there's no subject matter yet, no subject matter. What are we talking about? Calm down. Dear colleagues! Calm down, everyone. I beg you, Victor Mikhailovich, there is no reason. Your men have only been here three minutes. They're on the air. You can't. Calm down. Please, I beg you, I don't need to. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We have agreed in such a way that, in accordance with the Rules, if the Committee has not taken a decision, and at the request of national deputies or factions, we bring this matter up for consideration by the Supreme Council. We have agreed that if this matter is included, we will again consider it in accordance with the Rules. If a document is accepted as a basis and one of the deputies has a warning, the document will be sent to the committee, proposals will be made, there will be a second reading, everyone agreed. Therefore, in view of what I have told you, honourable colleagues, one minute, are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of draft Act 6416 on the amendment and additions to the Ukrainian law on the specificities of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, in the re-vote on 26 December 2004, I am asking to be defined. [[11:19:57]] For 208 The decision is not taken. In factions, please in factions: "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 58, Communists - 58, SDPU - 32, National Agrarian - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 3, Timoshenko Block - 0, Union - 13, Center - 3, Democratic Initiatives - 14, "Trubic Ukraine" - 13, NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 8, non-fractional - 6. Yes. Dear colleagues. From what? For reasons of what? Write down three minutes of motivation, please. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Vladimir Cherniak. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the adoption of these changes would be aimed at creating conditions for falsifying the results of the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u34	Since the Electoral Law was adopted in a package, it is not possible to break this Law out of a package and simply accept changes in the package and it was a breach of our agreements. I give the word to Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies, Mr. Volodymira Mikhailovich, we are witnessing three factions: Communists, the "Regions" of SDPU are essentially in breach of a package agreement that was difficult to reach in this room that allowed us to go to the consolidated work of Parliament. I would like to state that attempts to continue torpedoing this subject can have far-reaching consequences, including the position of the "Our Ukraine" faction of Gennady Samofal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Ludmila Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u37	Ludmila Kirichenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, dear listeners. As you can see, our Ukraine or so-called oranges aren't yesterday, not today, they're not doing anything to break the election. As I was aware, a meeting was held yesterday at the Kiev City Administration, to which about one and a half thousand representatives of security firms were invited, who were authorized to carry weapons. A team is being formed, which is being sent to the Lugansk and Donetsk region. I ask you, this is very serious, everything is being done to disrupt the elections and not just to break up, but to organize massive armed riots in the Lugansk and Donetsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u39	Alexeyev, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u40	The word "Gmiri" is to be passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u41	Umiri, please. Please, it's Gmiri's microphone. May I have your attention, please, Your Honor? Gmiri microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u42	Thank you. It's all about the bag. But you representatives of our Ukraine first broke the package agreement by voting for amendments to the Bulletins Act. But that's not even the point. No package can be higher than the constitutional right of three million voters that you want to select from them. They would like to select representatives of our Ukraine, representatives of the BUT, representatives of the Socialist Party and some other groups of the Supreme Council. I will remind you that this is about the people who have created this country for us, who have won the Great Homeland War. They have the experience of victory, not the defeats you have brought to Ukraine. And you want to take from us the conscience of the people and the memory of the people. You want to live in oblivion. It won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear national deputies, the draft Law is being announced for consideration. Last name wasn't anybody, please calm down. Draft Act amending the Customs Tariff of Ukraine. [[on the rate of supply to the food industry]] Registration number 3694. Second reading. Dear colleagues, I have followed closely, the name of no one has been named. Zushko Vasil Petrovich. Vasil Petrovich, please. Second reading, pay attention, fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u44	Respectable People's Deputies. The bill has been tabled by the government. You're signing, as part of the S.O.T. entry, the protocols. It was adopted on first reading by the Supreme Council. Comments were made by the people's deputies on the need to remove from the bill the duty on imports of hop cones. Our committee listened to the proposals. It's a particular faction of agrarians, a faction of socialists. And we removed that provision from the bill. They also removed dolls because the bill on import duties for dolls had already been adopted. There is therefore a proposal for the committee to adopt the bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, all the amendments proposed are taken into account. We have every reason to put the committee’s second reading and generally as a law to vote. With motive? Vashuk's microphone for voting reasons, please. Baby, please turn on the microphone. Microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u46	I repeat. At the request of the faction of the agrarians, the Socialist factions were removed from the bill. I don't have them in the bill. Taken without this position in the second and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u47	Yeah, no warning from anyone else? Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u48	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I also made an offer that I should clean up where the combined import duty would decrease in hops. It's counted. It's written. But on page four, the fourth amendment is not included. I'd like to explain why it's not taken into account. So far, I'd like an explanation, because setting up my proposal is exactly going to increase the revenue of the State budget. In my opinion, not taking the proposal into account now will contribute to a reduction in the revenue of the State budget. I'd like to hear an explanation, and then I'd like to explain the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u49	Yuri Anatolyevich, we are adopting a bill, you know, on import and export duties after receiving the conclusion of the Customs Council. The Customs Tariff Council at the Cabinet of Ministers considers this provision of the Customs Tariff Act at the Cabinet of Ministers in the context of the signed protocols for the entry into the GAT SOT. Therefore, our committee on your first proposal, but it coincided with the agrarians and other deputies, we studied hops, and on the second we left the proposal that was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A second reading proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. [[on the rate of supply to the food industry]] Registration number 3694. Please vote. [[11:29:27]] For 271 The law is passed. Yes, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 06.12.2004 is under consideration, registration number 4147. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Economy and Euro-Integration of Voschevsky Valeriy Mikolayovich. Cuzko Vasil Petrovich will be the narrator. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! On November 18, 2004, the Supreme Council was re-adopted by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. The prescribed law was primarily designed to address the issue of taxation of transactions involving the import of cultural values. At the same time, the Act proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds and the Code on Administrative Offences in the Department of Public Procurement. Most changes in this law can lead to additional costs of public funds, conflict with international procurement practices, may discriminate against purchasers and, as a result, do not comply with the main objective of the law - to create a competitive environment in the area of public procurement, to ensure transparency of public procurement and to rational use of public funds. In view of the above, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to remove from the Ukrainian Act "To Change Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine." For more information, see the book Questions Young People Ask — Answers That Work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u52	Thank you, too, for the report. Please, Vasil Petrovich Tsushko, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! We are considering this bill for the third time. It was after the first adoption of the veto of the President, after which the committee established a working group. We've studied practically all the President's remarks. After that, the bill was dedicated again. The essence of the bill is that we have purchases made out of two parts: the first, cultural goods, and the second, State purchases. So the second part of the law, in fact, the committee, with the participation of all factions, unanimously supported the need to overcome the veto. On the contrary, this bill creates a procedure of transparency, because everyone will have to find out that they have government money, they're going to buy, for example, if it's a cruiser, they're going to buy UDI. And it has to be posted on the Internet. Today, this procedure is not transparent. And the second. I'll tell you that the essence of the veto problem is to fight one of the companies on a monopoly so that all the buyers go through one company. That's the problem. There is therefore a proposal by the Committee to overcome the veto. [[I say again: unanimously all representatives of all factions]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, in accordance with the Rules, we will have to vote first on the President's proposals and not then vote on the veto. Oleg Petrov, please. One minute, Vasil Petrovich. Microphone: Oleg Petrov, NDP faction
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u55	Oleg Petrov, NDP faction. Dear colleagues, in your attention, I would like to emphasise the fourth draft of this bill. And I ask you to focus on the fact that not all the President's remarks are taken into account. First, the Antimonopoly Committee expressed its position on Law 4147 and proposed to delete the following: "It is based on a licensed object included in the relevant register provided for by the Law on Protection of Rights to Inventories and Useful Models." I especially want to stop at the part of the law that provides for the creation of a specialized electronic system on the Internet. Now, there is now a private structure that owns a patent for 20 years and will have a monopoly on Internet procurement of state goods and services in the State budget of up to 15 billion. Therefore, I propose that article four of Law 4147 be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u56	I'll answer your question, yes, exactly, of your statement. Which is exactly what the Antimonopoly Committee announced after the second veto, and we all agreed. And this law is agreed upon. And I don't have any business interests, not enough, all the factions were involved. And it's lobbying one of the structures that wants to control 20 billion. On the contrary, this law makes it transparent, and now you've misreported it, sorry. The Committee once again proposes that the veto be overcome because there is a struggle to monopolize one structure. I don't want to call her now, I don't want to name people interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'm voting first on the president's amendment. Amendment 1 of the President of Ukraine. "Article 4 (1) of Section 1 of the law to exclude." This amendment shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:35:03]] For-19 The decision is not taken. The vote is amended by the third amendment proposed by the President of Ukraine. "Section 1, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to Exclude." There's a vote coming. [[11:35:36]] For the five of us. Dear colleagues, we now have a vote on the proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. Registration number 4147. [[11:36:09]] For 319 Thus, the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overturned. The factions? Please. Our Ukraine - 100, Ukraine - 8, Communist - 57, SDPU - 25, National Agrarian - 22, SPU - 20, One Ukraine - 18, Block Timoshenko - 18, Union - 3, Center - 14, Deminitiv - 5, Labour Ukraine - 6, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 0, non-fractional - 23. Let's move on to the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, announcing. More specifically, it's not for consideration. We need to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda, please note, the draft decree establishing the interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the circumstances of the issuance of the Presidential Decree on the release of Vladimir Satsuk from office as the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The proposal to include this issue in the agenda shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 6429]] Please vote. [[11:37:37]] For 285 Questions are included in the agenda. Vassil Gavriluk, please report to the National MP. The focal point will be the chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov. It's very short, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We all know that the impunity of top officials over the course of 13 years has led to a situation that we and the Ukrainian people are witnessing. In particular, 14 events occurred when the Court of Appeal of Kiev considered the submission of the Head of the Supreme Council with regard to the “democratic termination of the authority of the People's Deputies of Ukraine of Satsuka”, and the Court decided to satisfy the concerns of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During the trial, no documents were submitted that Satsuk had been dismissed. The result is that on the following day, there were documents claiming that there was an Order of 13 “on the extermination of Satsuka from the position of first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service”. In which case you would like to express a few positions. First. There are two decrees and two decrees, in particular that “to assign Idira Igor Jurievich to the head of the European Integration Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.” And so on by the same number. One. Among other things, Satsuka's name has to do with you, the so-called possible poisoning of Yushchenko, which is a serious basis for investigating our commission. Thirdly, you and I are well aware of the need to understand the very motivation behind Satsuka's dismissal. If the President, by firing him, had planned to remove the power to remove and for that reason had issued an order, that was the same. If the possibility was indeed poisoning and Satsuk had something to do with it, then the reason for the dismissal was different. I think you'll agree that we have to work this out. And of course, it's a very important fact that you want to be told on behalf of the judiciary today. The crazed unprecedented pressure is being exerted today on the Court of Appeal and on those directly judges who have decided on the part of Mevedchuk and the Ukrainian Security Service. I am convinced that the rule of our Parliament, which is called parliamentary control, is necessary to further strengthen and enhance the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I find it necessary that the authors of the Bartkov, Gavriluk and Shkil bill suggest that you take a decision and support the draft decree in order to establish the control functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to clarify the circumstances of the decree and the causes of the crime that may have occurred with regard to the issuance of the decree by the latter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u59	Yes. Thank you, sit down, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, Head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the circumstances of the President of Ukraine's decree to release Vladimir Satsuk from office as the first deputy of the Security Service, as reported by colleague Konovaluk, Gabrieluk, I beg your pardon, raise many questions. Therefore, our committee supports the Commission’s proposal to deal with this matter. With regard to connection, we do not associate the appearance of an edict with the circumstances involved in the poisoning of Victor Yushchenk. This may be clarified, but in this case it does not matter. We need to deal with the circumstances of this decree. There can be no court case, and there is no record of it, and the next day an edict appears. So we need to set up a commission and take a thorough look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u61	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, when there is no objection, I am voting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to adopt this project as a decree to establish an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the circumstances of the issuance of a decree by the President of Ukraine on the release of Vladimir Satsuk from his office as First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Registration number 6429]] [[11:42:51]] For 262 Decision taken. With motive? Please sign up. Three minutes. Write your motives before the next question. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u62	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Head, dear colleagues. It was extremely proper for Parliament to make a decision on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to put all the dots above the "and" as the President can issue the decrees in the back. This is generally ridiculous for the practice of normal civilized countries. And in general, it is a service floor that is penalized, not to mention such a serious position as the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service. If he wanted to be a decent officer in the eyes of his subordinates and fellow deputies, since he is no longer a deputy, he would have to resign himself as a sign that he is not involved in the tragedy that took place with Victor Yashchenk. He didn't do it. And Parliament must put all the dots above the "and" and order those who are to blame for all the strictness of the Ukrainian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u63	The Coloniari pass on the right to speak to Valérie Konovaluku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we really understand that the violations that occur at a higher level of government should not remain with a certain reaction and conclusions from the Supreme Council. But our position is confident that every commission that's created is temporarily investigating it, it's logically completed its work, and there's been a report in the Supreme Council. And we're going to insist, because we're now in the Supreme Council, and we're going to be asking questions about the Bank of Ukraine. That's understandable, too. Therefore, we will insist that the next session be reported by the vast majority of the provisional commissions of inquiry, and the Supreme Council has stopped that practice that is not merely supported by the creation of commissions. But there are no conclusions or decisions to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u65	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Gmiri Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u67	Sergei Petrovich Gmira, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm talking about national security. On Thursday and Friday, the 5th Channel, close to Our Ukraine, published surveillance material for the head of the President's Administration, for the President of the Central Electoral Commission, for the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. You know, not so comparatively, a few decades ago, Nixon got the impeachment ten times less of a joke. And today, Mr. Yushchenko has not yet succeeded in becoming President, and if he becomes President, he has done everything he can to give him an impeachment. I emphasize that the highest officials in the State are listening, and they are still boasting. There must be a Attorney General here, there must be a President of the Ukrainian Security Service, and there must be an answer to how the country is being monitored. We're all under.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u69	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we voted to create this temporary commission of inquiry, because, in fact, the matter needs to be done, but I would like to point out that we have some committees created, others cannot be created, because someone wants to. And this is happening today because we still don't have the Law on the Temporary Commission of Inquiry. And I think that somehow we need to solve this question, throw away all the fears that are happening today about any other character who might be on the interim commission of inquiry. Write down the rules of procedure of this commission of inquiry. In fact, as our previous colleagues have now said here, there may be a way to standardize who was present on this issue -- both on the Supreme Council, and in general in the course of the investigation. And then we don't have what's happening right now -- we can create for someone, we can't create for someone. That's why I think it is. The project simply needs to be brought to the meetings of the Supreme Council and considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u71	Thank you. On the question that they just broke. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on a fixed tax system. If there's no objection, they're interconnected, let's put these two together right now, these projects. Two is 6165, 6165-1 and 6363. Is there no objection? Package, right? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u72	For what reason? Potapov, please. Now, just invite the deputies to the session room, we'll vote. Diving, microphone, please. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u73	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, these are the three bills that have a serious impact on the budget, which, by the way, we will consider tomorrow, is completely unknown to this room. This is a very serious category, for all farmers. This is a value added tax and a single tax. It's actually changing the concept. The Committees have not been considered at this stage. And today someone wants two days before New Year's Eve to make all the villagers happy with new taxes. I think, and I'm asking you to support, we don't have to look at it today. It should be considered in accordance with the procedure and then inserted into the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that all these documents are considered according to the procedure, and they are already in the order of the day several times. We agreed that we would look at these documents and then correct this process with the budgetary process. So we have every reason to put these documents in the agenda and look at them. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please pay attention and support: vote on the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws 6165, 6165-1 and 6363. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:50:16]] For 279 These documents are included in the agenda, so let's go over them. Bill 6165 is announced for consideration. Yukhnovski Oleg Ivanovich, please give your report on this matter. Prepare Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a draft law amending some of Ukraine's tax laws, registration number 6165. Let me briefly remind you of the history of the question. Last session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine and Support for Social Standards of Their Tax Workers. That's why we've clearly outlined the basis for the policy direction -- support for agricultural production prices, credit, risk insurance in the agricultural sector, state food reserves, subsidies for animal production. A special tax regime for added value has also been introduced. We came out of the fact that the tax system ended on January 1, 2005, and it was important that the 2005 State Budget should be shaped to take into account the rules of the legislation. Bill 6165, which aims to improve Law 1878, proposes to amend a number of laws, including fixed taxes. Article 1 deletes the deduction to the Pension Fund and social funds from the fixed tax. The main motive for agricultural producers is to account for the Pension Fund and the Social Insurance Fund at a special underpaid rate. Despite nearly two years of discussion around this problem, we have found a compromise solution that addresses the problem of rural pensions. This is confirmed by an article in the State Budget project for the following year -- 1.2 billion dollars for compensation to the Pension Fund. Bill 6165 also provides for amendments to the Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, to the Law on General Compulsory State Insurance. Since the Taxation Act provides for a special fee to be paid to the Pension Fund by payers of a special value-added tax regime, we propose that such a regime be extended only to payers of fixed agricultural taxes. The bill also amends the VAT Act, introduces other criteria for determining a circle of agricultural enterprises that can apply a special tax regime for added value, namely: no more than 25 per cent of operations for the implementation of jobs and services other than agricultural services, and no more than 300,000 dollars. A similar proposal is found in the Sigala National MP’s project. This is the most controversial issue raised by the failure to accept changes to the basic VAT law, where the amount of 62,000 dollars is being operated. This was the norm that most of the comments were made by the Ministry of Agriculture and some agricultural producers. Dear colleagues, I ask you to adopt Project 6165 as a basis and in the second reading, along with Project 6363, so that we can come to an agreed decision, taking into account the draft State Budget Act, which will be adopted, I hope, tomorrow or Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill No. 6165-1 will be reported by Deputy Kalinchuk Vasil Antonović.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u77	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! As Oleg Ivanovich has already said, some of the standards of the Ukrainian Law, which we adopted on June 24, 2004, at number 1878, which takes effect on January 1, 2005, need to be improved in order to avoid difficulties in their practical implementation. Draft Law No. 6165 of the People's Deputies Oleg Ivanovich Yuhnovsky and Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryochina slightly improve the aforementioned law, but we do not think that it is in full scope. That is why we have prepared our draft law. In particular, it provides for the removal from the list of taxes and congregations instead of which a fixed agricultural tax is paid only by the congregations for pension and social insurance and the reduction of fixed agricultural taxes. It's proposed to remove the standard for monthly determination of the net weight of 70 percent of the yield from agricultural production in total gross earnings of agriculture, because agriculture is seasonal agriculture. It is proposed in part to amend Ukraine’s legislation on compulsory state pension insurance and on the collection of compulsory state pension insurance for the purpose of charging employees of fixed farm enterprises with full insurance and pension benefits for the annual compensation to the Pension Fund at the expense of the State Budget, such as the 2005 State Budget, the 2005 State Budget Project already provides 1.2 billion dollars. In addition, Law No. 1878 provides for a fairly discriminatory standard for agriculture, namely, if an agricultural enterprise has implemented products other than agriculture for 12 calendar months for the sum of 6,200 dollars, it cannot be registered or withdrawn as a subject of a special tax regime. This should not be allowed in view of the volume of production and the implementation of the products of large agricultural enterprises. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has considered this issue and has asked national MPs. and would have asked the National Deputies to support it on the basis, but given that most of the provisions of this bill have been reflected in Bill No. 6363 and Law No. 6165, the authors of Bill No. 6165-1 take it off the table and propose to adopt Bills No. 6165 and No. 6363 on the first reading on the basis and prepare them on the basis of one law and a fourth to adopt it as a whole. It would therefore be appropriate to listen now to draft Law 6363 and then to a report from the committee of the vice-chairman of the committee of honorary Sergey Anatoliyovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u78	Thank you. Since the bill is being drafted, no questions asked. Have a seat, please. We're listening to Bill 6363. Please report to National Deputy Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! What is behind the introduction of the bill? You all remember that we have passed a new law with you that regulates the attitude of the agricultural sector to the budget, to the financial sector of the government. The State budget should provide compensatory factors, i.e. compensation for changes made to the value added tax and to the fixed tax. Today, these figures are not included in the budget. The situation is that when the village receives nothing in return, the benefits are left, and this is not a benefit, it's actually a tax subsidy for the added value. How did this happen? Reprocessing companies that received agricultural products did not pay their value added tax in the budget, but they did so as a subsidy to peasants. The value added tax that peasants were to pay in order to implement their products remained with them and went as a grant, for the price, and was used over the acquisition of technology and other basic means of production. This amount was about 2 billion 800 million a year. If we take it off, agriculture, without getting anything in return, comes with lower prices for its produce and with additional taxes. Thus, Law 6363 provides for the maintenance of an effective tax system for the next year. Secondly, to bring the fixed agricultural tax into line with the current legislation with some of its improvements. What does that mean? Remove the limit of 60,000, there's 65 200 to avoid putting an agricultural producer in a very interesting situation. In the winter, we don't have agrarian products, and we're introducing this restriction. And thirdly, to clarify the legislative procedure and order of payment by agricultural workers in the congregation for compulsory pension insurance, that is, we move to the gradual payment of the pension fund - 6.4%, and the rest is compensated by the State in the form of grants to the pension fund. Such changes are proposed by our law. It includes
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u80	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Dear colleagues, let's do this in a way that we'll discuss, finish this question, and then we'll call it a break, no objection? Yes, for the three bills of the Committee of Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u81	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, whom I have not seen. Teryohin, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Well, there were already two reports of the need for a package of two of these bills in the first reading. Because Bill 6165 refers to the improvement of the existing tax base of the village, as well as the collection of contributions to the pension fund by agricultural producers. And Bill 6363 refers to the dates of the introduction of this new system, which, you know, according to the legislation, is due to take effect on January 1st next year. However, according to that legislation, the Cabinet of Ministers was expected to provide for full funding of compensators for the next year and for the introduction of the new system. In addition, you remember that we recently adopted a basic, as it were called, the Basic Agricultural Sector Act or the State Support for Agriculture, which also envisioned individual attachment to formation, such as an agrarian fund, a stock market, insurance subsidies, and so on. Unfortunately, in that draft budget given to us by the government, it's either not there or it's not enough. If you compare the accruals in the budget project with a little over 5 billion dollars, that's just enough to make up for 1.2 billion dollars in pension payments. However, compensation for subsidies, perhaps meat and milk, which account for about 2.4 billion dollars, are not available. Therefore, according to our committee's proposal to accept 6165 in the first reading, Deputy Kalinczuk also confirmed that he was taking down his version of the track one, and 6363 and agreeing, if possible, with the budget committee to allocate these additional allocations to the full compensation for the loss of the introduction of the new system. If this is done, then. 6363 is out. If that's not the case, then we're only going to have to change this system if we have the right resources. We can't throw the village aside, reducing resources by more than 2.4 billion dollars. So I reported on the position of our committee. I can tell you that 6363 duplicates and compiles 6165 in some months, not in very good manners, so we're going to have to clean it too. And one more thing. I remind you that according to the existing system of deputies of Yukhnowsky, Terjehochin has proposed the introduction of 20% of the fund. 20 percent of the fund to the Pension Fund. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u82	Well, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u83	Literally 15 seconds. Unfortunately, you know that a protocol was signed with the Cabinet of Ministers, which predicted 32 percent per peasant. They will not be able to enter into such a scheme clearly. That's why we need to stress our work at 6165. So I ask you to vote, to take the basis of these two laws or to vote alone, but we need to adopt them today in the first reading. By the end of the week, we prepare them for final reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u84	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. The truth is you're much more liberal today, you're looking harder at it. Is there a need to discuss it? Carmazine, please. Get ready for Jawrowski, if you want. Let's take 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u85	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, 11 years I have heard one thing from this rostrum: the village is dying, let's support the village. You come to the village -- really, it's dying. Why? Because that's how the laws are passed, as you say. That's why he's dying. It's me who's talking to those in this rostrum who's yelling that the village's dying. And then let's see, and why does local self - government die? Because you plan to give local budgets three times less at once. Law 6363 is immediately planned for the local budgets on exactly three dates. All those who have passed the law. And nobody cares. And then you'll come to the village council, and they'll tell you that they can't build a school in Catherinapolis. What? And there's no money in the local budget. There's nothing to fix. So I firmly oppose the fact that we do not invite the Committee on Budgets here to report, Adam Ivanovich. I'm definitely against it. Well, let's talk like that. Now the question is, these are the serious issues: to delay the validity of the law on making changes that were adopted when the PUK here shouted, a parliamentary-government coalition led by Yanukovic. They split the budget like this, and it just snapped. That's what we did. What? Copy that, now let's postpone. Since Janukovich is clearly already down, he is no longer there. Next. Continue operation until 2007 of the zero VAT rate. Let's cancel the VAT in general, as the criminal tax itself. Let's do it, ladies and gentlemen! Well, we don't want to. We say let's do zero here. And everyone else should stand in position with the letter "Zu," as they say in Odessa. Next. Reduce fixed agricultural tax rates and immediately reduce payment to compulsory pension insurance from 32 to 20. I don't mind agreeing, but we're already taking the budget. We have to put him to the vote tomorrow. And not listening here to the report and the report and the budget committee is a very frivolous thing. So I will personally vote in favour of the first reading of these two laws, but without concluding the impact of these changes on the overall performance of farming across the country, including where to take these additional 11 billion. Then it's for retirement. I'm never going to vote "for" in two readings, because the budget is next year, and you're now proposing to stop all laws for two more years. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's take, let's have the budget committee and let the government give its opinion, and let's see why we haven't been able to do that until now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Solomon. He's behind him, Hinzburg. Yes, please, it's Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Solomonine. A faction of Communists. Adam Ivanovich, when the committee's reporter was standing in the rostrum, we were given Bill 6363 in exchange for the previous bill, and now we have two bills -- previously filed and the one filed today, which is December 20. It's not clear what kind of bill we've been asked to consider and what we're going to vote for. I'd like to ask you and the profile committee to finally determine what we've been looking at and what we're voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u88	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich, you're an experienced parliamentarian, and you know, there's always a last resort. The replacement means we're looking at it. Please, Hinzburg, follow her, and we'll determine. Hinzburg microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Hinzburg, Communist faction, 161th Conotapian constituency. I would like to say that under Law 6165, the Communist faction has been identified by vote because the congregation for compulsory social insurance, which will be removed from the fixed agricultural tax and the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance today, has somehow provided our rural workers with the hope of receiving a guaranteed pension. But I wanted to say something else. If there were factories, factories, agriculture, somewhere in Soviet times, and the Pension Fund, which had or was in the State Budget, there was enough money to guarantee pensions to citizens who are now 55-60 years old, because they deserved it and worked for it, so today we have a question: what are the costs that work so little or when we look at the productive industry and agriculture, we will be able to, our nation can pay pensions to our young generation? And this issue today needs to be considered, somehow sounded and made a decision, because tomorrow, the following day, there will be a lot of questions in our country about the payment of pensions to our citizens, and the faction of Communists claims and worries about it today. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u91	Vladimir Cherniak, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." I'd say "Ukraine is ours," so it's probably more right. Dear colleagues, the village doesn't have to be supported, the village doesn't have to be disturbed. We need to create normal, I'd say favourable conditions for an agricultural producer. These are the main ones. Sadly, however, to this day our policy in this regard is imperfect, inconsistent, and ineffective. I mean, the problem of price parity isn't solved, the problem of profitability isn't solved, the problem of income distribution is for the manufacturer, not for the middleman and for the seller. And that's why we have to solve these problems, they say, on the other hand. But at the same time, I think we need to support these bills, so in this real situation, they're an appropriate response. Well, I'd say a little bit more carefully: these laws are palliative. It's not a solution to the problem -- it's a polytechnics, but it's a necessary polytechnics for the situation that has arisen. And it's also causing anxiety and the situation that the budget is already in place, and we're looking at it tomorrow -- and it's only today in Parliament that we're considering these bills with such a great deal of delay. The need to adopt draft laws is due to the introduction of a new system of agricultural accounting with a budget. As a result, there was a problem of compensation for the loss of changes in the value added tax and fixed tax. So the problem is compensation. This problem in the budget is not solved, there is not or very little in the budget that solves it. That's why we're in the firehouse now adopting a bill. It's not normal, but it's necessary in these specific conditions that we're in. So it's not about the benefits, it's about the subsidy because of the tax on the added value of the village. Therefore, it would be wrong to look at the matter from the point of view of the benefits. We need to bring the bills that are here into line with the budget -- and we need to accept them. And the last. Of course, there is a pension problem that is not being addressed properly. And in the process of drafting bills for second reading, we are obliged to resolve pension insurance problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, for the reasons of the vote, the Vashtuk microphone. And I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! In order for everyone to understand that this is actually the legislation that we want to respond to, that the government is not fulfilling its obligations and that under the new law that we have adopted, it does not go into the new system of financing for the APC. And the tax base is not getting any better, it's still at the same level that it was until now. Until the government makes new support mechanisms for the APC, we have to leave the same tax management system, by improving only the payment to the Pension Fund or by not eating our pensioners. This is the basic essence of the laws. And please put them in a packet or there's been no misunderstanding in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u94	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. I think we know the hall and vote as it should without the package. I bet, fellow Members, be careful to vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the system of taxation with fixed agricultural taxes. [[Registration number 6165]] Please vote. [[12:16:14]] For 345. Copy that. Since the honourable colleagues, 6165-1 has been removed, we are going to vote on the following bill: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation of agricultural enterprises. [[Registration number 6363]] Please take a friendly vote. [[12:16:54]] For 298 As you can see, without the package, the bill came. Thank you, Your Honor. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Start at 12 o'clock, 40 minutes. Sorry, 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u95	We invite the distinguished national deputies to attend the session hall, and we will continue our work. Let's move on to the short-term consideration of the bills. A draft law on the establishment of a fixed amount of insurance contributions to a general government pension scheme for individual categories of payers is being announced for consideration. Reporter is the deputy head of the Pension Fund, Oleksei Borisovich. A member of the Committee on Financial and Banking Activities, Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich, will be the focal point. Please, in three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u96	Respectable national deputies, the law on compulsory state pension insurance provides that individuals who are subject to entrepreneurial activities and their families, who together carry out this entrepreneurial activity at the time of the legislative acts on a simplified system of taxation, pay the contributions to the pension fund, not by a percentage of their income, but on a fixed scale. Accordingly, a bill has been drafted that is proposed for your consideration. The bill provides for a fixed rate of premiums for the above - mentioned categories of persons at 70 dollars. Well, this size was determined from the wages that were in force at the time of the introduction of the bill to the Supreme Council last December. I want to remind you that the amount paid from the minimum wage paid to the pension fund at the appropriate rate, today this is 34% in accordance with the legislation of the minimum insurance premium, and it is on the condition of payment of the minimum insurance premium to the insurance service that one or the other period of work is counted so as not to deprive those subjects of entrepreneurial activity, of the right to a future pension. And by the way, we have almost one million people today who are offered a fixed premium rate of no less than a minimum premium, or a minimum wage premium. The bill was, proposed for your consideration, supported by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on Finance and Banking, as well as the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. Therefore, taking into account the above, please support this bill in the first reading and shortly before the second reading process, taking into account the size of the minimum wage that is planned for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich is a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Respectable colleagues and distinguished President. In principle, after the statement by the representative of Kabmin, add nothing. It's a very simple amendment. There were only contentious questions about, indeed, pension contributions, because these are the three systems, the system of simplified taxation, the individuals. Indeed, the law referred to a fixed amount to be paid, respectively, to receive pensions. There have been many disputes with the tax system, and there have been courts. And I may recall that this was passed by law since the 1st of the year, 2004. The Committee decided unanimously to support it because the decision had been taken by Kabmin. In principle, this is the Kabmin initiative. So this is just a controversial question. Nor was it taken into account in legislation itself, a customary white mark that was not taken into account. And there really wasn't a time. It was fixed - it's 70 bracelets. The time is right. And correctly and in the first reading, it was determined that let's take a look at the minimum wage, because this is going to be the second reading, so I hope it's accepted. When it changes, it will automatically pass and will be submitted accordingly by individuals. And there will be no controversial taxes with the tax structure. It's very important. That is why I want this bill supported. I don't think there will be any questions in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the board, please let's see the national MPs who signed up for the discussion. Two--for, two--against. Mironenko, please, the Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u100	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Crimea. Respectable compatriots, distinguished people's deputies, respected Vladimir Mihajlovich. Today I had several phone conversations with veterans, small businesses in Kerchi, who asked for the following. The veterans of the town of Kerchi express great regret that the faction “Our Ukraine”, the bloc of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Social Party, did not vote on the bill of a member of the Ukrainian Company Masenko to allow disabled people to vote in the elections of the President of Ukraine. These factions have thus deprived hundreds of thousands of people of constitutional law and the legislator of the opportunity to falsify the will of the people, I stress, the will of the people. That's the first request. Second request. Request from the Union of Entrepreneurs of the City of Kerchi. They recall that there is already Presidential Decree No. 746 of 28 June 1999, which provides for a single tax of 20 per cent in Gosbudget, 23 per cent in the local budget, and 42 per cent in the pension budget. And they ask entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs in the city of Kerchi, to ensure that the bill is supported in the first reading. But for second reading, certain amendments should be made. They believe that the contributions to the Pension Fund should be no less, I emphasize at least 70 bracelets, but should be credited to the personal account of the entrepreneur in the Pension Fund. So that this amount will be fixed at the Pension Fund in the account of the entrepreneur. Secondly, they request that the amount of tax contributions be taken into account by the pension fund on the basis of a fixed single tax, i.e. the amount of that tax, based on the same 42 per cent. But, I stress, they believe that there should be at least 70 bracelets. But I would like to ask myself, this is a request from the Union of Entrepreneurs of the city of Kerchi. But what I would also like to say is that, in fact, we are seeing -- the very focus is stifled by a small enterprise where teachers, doctors, engineers and so on have gone. And we have to think about the pension, because now the mass of bankruptcy is in progress, and these small entrepreneurs will then have to get a pension. If we do not adopt this law, these small businesses will likely be affected, who will then be interested in pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u102	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I have returned from Odessa's hero city tonight, and I can tell you that the city has been outraged by the rumors that Mr. Yanukovich's representatives are distributing and adhering to those words, as if they were Julius Timoshenko. Julia Timoshenko is here right now, and she confirms that she's never said anything like that where she's seven miles away, there's going to be wheat growing that's all closing up markets and so on, she never said that, nobody's ever been rolled into asphalt. This is the terminology of bandits. We know who the bandits are gonna put in the presidents. That's why I want our people not to worry. They're also worried about this bill. In this bill, which proposes to set a fixed amount of premiums for general government pension insurance for natural persons, business subjects, who have chosen a special form of taxation, a fixed tax, and their families who participate in their entrepreneurial activities, the figure of 70 dollars cannot be recorded. It's not conceptual. So to accept things without warning that this is at the conceptual level is wrong, you can't. We don't take the law for one day. So the government would have to think when he then made a proposal on December 11, 2003, when he made an offer that would change the minimum wage, which means that 32 percent would change. 32 percent of the 262 that will be in the budget by January 1st. They're over 80 bucks. Let's not fool anyone. That's the first question. And secondly, it is clear that no decree should regulate and never tax. What was at Kuchma must be forgotten, nothing of this at Yushchenk will, of course, be set aside by law. So I suggest that we assume that we can accept it in the first reading, but by conceptually writing that the percentage, 32 percent of the minimum wage, and those contributions that are set by the decree should be included here, that is, taking into account what's already coming from people, because everyone wants to be sure. There's a lot of us and scientists standing in markets, and it's all over the country, because this state has expelled scientists, candidates for science, doctors of science, and they're standing on Petrovka today, they're standing on the seventh kilometers, they're standing on Barbashivka in Kharkiv -- they're standing around, these people. So we need to protect them, accept them in the first reading, and now we need to finalize this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u103	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u104	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! This is what happened now that whatever laws we passed, whatever laws we made to the law, they're all inopportune. They're all inconvenient because we lost so much time in Ukraine, that everything we don't do today had to be done yesterday and the day before. Of course, today the world is living on this cumulative retirement principle. In practice, neither government nor the state, in fact, has no problems, man earns himself, he has a private personalized account of money, and there is no claim on anyone. We ourselves see the passions around pensions, and today Ukraine probably lives, and everyone from village to city is discussing yesterday's debates by two representatives who would like to lead our nation today. And perhaps many today have been reexamined, and they have learned that a study can be done, not a tour, but a study. And that our economy is going to get so big, but we're still holding it together. You saw that yesterday the Prime Minister was unable to answer the specific questions of Victor Yushchenka, what happened to pensions. And today we have a huge problem because the situation is a provoked pension, and we're going to need to put our intellectual powers together now in order to find these funds, and in no way do we have to lose these pensions. I realize that this law is inconvenient, and I realize that today, taking from this firm that pays the fixed tax, these 70 dollars, I realize that there's something wrong with it. But there is no other way out. We have to start this stockpiling fund sometime. That's why I'm convinced that for this bill we just have to vote, start this process, once again, amassing, until the law that we passed goes into effect. Because, as one wise man put it, paying taxes is the only intellectual activity that makes any profit. We have a huge profit in Ukraine, and we know these huge benefits that are written out in the Cabinet of Ministers, and they're not stupid. So let's still legitimize these 70 bracelets today and start the process of stockpiling these personalised pension deposits. Thank you. I'm sure we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u105	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u106	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, around Bill 4501 on the establishment of a fixed amount of insurance contributions to a general government pension insurance policy for natural persons engaged in small business activities, we had some controversy in the faction, and very much, I would say, hot. But at last we're determined, and by our vote, we're going to mark this position. I would like to say only the following for myself. If you support what is proposed in this bill, it's as if it's a good idea because it's focused. and a good offer because it is designed to predict a certain premium minimum, 32 percent of the minimum wage, that is, about 70 dollars. On the other hand, such reasonings were also heard. Every person who does. entrepreneurship itself is responsible for its destiny, it unites, it does not cohesive and how it accumulates money for this old age, which will sooner or later come to it. It's a man's business. It is her freedom, and this freedom cannot be pressured. These are different polar viewpoints. I want to say that really, you can look at it from one side and look at it from the other, but we still have to predict those conditions when this person faces a situation where there's nothing in his pension account or there's nothing in it. For the rest of my time, I want to go back to Bill 40. 6416, our colleague Masenka, on the organization of the right of older people to vote at home. I just want to emphasize that. Today, from a political point of view, there was a shooting vote for 3 million people who defended Soviet homeland and socialist country in 1941-45. These people weren't supported by Our Ukraine, the People's Agrarian Party, the Socialist Party, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Yeda, the Center. The Soviets, the older generation, I'm asking you to consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u107	Yes, dear fellows! Discussion of the draft Law on the establishment of a fixed amount of premiums for a general government pension scheme for individual categories of payers has been completed. A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. Attention, Your Honor, there will be a vote now. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. A proposal by the adoption committee for a draft Act establishing a fixed amount of insurance contributions to a general government pension insurance scheme for individual categories of payers is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 4501]] Please vote. [[13:11:33]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 22, Regions - 26, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 25, Labour Ukraine - 7, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 11, Only Ukraine - 19, Center - 12, NDP, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 7, Deminiciative - People's Government - 2, Postfaction - 21. What's the committee's offer? There's no committee proposal. The head of the Committee on Finance and Banking asks that the document be sent for re-reading. I'm voting on this proposal. [[Registration number of draft law 4501]] [[13:12:37]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax for Persons is being introduced, registration numbers 5657, 5657-D. [[on taxation of interest on bank deposits]] Reporter Alexander Turchinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, this is a serious enough piece of legislation, and I am convinced that it should be supported by national MPs regardless of factional affiliation, and left and right and centrist, etc. What's going on? I remind you that on May 22, 2003, when we passed the Income Tax Act, there was also a rule in this law on taxation of our citizens' deposits that they have in our banking system. And it's in accordance with this law that now taxes are being made on the income that citizens receive from their work contributions, such as deposits in the Ukrainian banking system. What led to this? This led to the fact that when the results of bank arrivals in 2003 were compared to previous years, the volume of deposits actually declined twice. Dear colleagues, I repeat: twice. And, of course, those negative consequences for both the banking system and the economy of Ukraine are enough and now they feel. What's more, it's relevant, because both the efforts of the current government and the current president are in a very difficult situation, and our banking system, and now we have to support it. We need to encourage you and our citizens not to hide in their pockets what money they still have, but to take it to the bank and get the money right. And that's why the honourable colleagues, the legislative act, are going to abolish the decision to tax the population they have in our banking system. It's suggested that we cancel this, and when in the future, when the banking system is stable, when in the future we feel real, not static, growth in our economy, then we can talk, or we can go back to taxing these incomes. Now, dear colleagues, I repeat, this is important in terms of the interests of our citizens and in terms of maintaining our national banking system. With regard to budget revenues, two words on this point are that no cuts in budget income will bring this legislative act. Why? Because when we make the right decision with you, we can predict double the amount of our citizens' deposits in the banking system. This will lead to an increase in the bank's income. Will there be a corresponding increase in the tax that banks pay to the budget? Moreover, it will improve the economic situation, because there is more to lend to our economy. And all of this will certainly reflect economic growth and growth, of course, coming to the budget. Thank you. And I ask all the MPs, regardless of their political affiliation, to support the interests of our citizens, I repeat, the interests of our citizens and to vote in favour of this legislative act. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask the deputies who are outside the hall to come to the hall and vote, because there are so many empty places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u109	Thank you. We will do so before the vote, and we will do so this time. Victor Volodymyrovich Kaputin, please. Ah, Sergey Burjak will report, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Short Bill 5657-D, that is, completed. The bill is a finalized version of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. [[on taxation of interest on bank deposits]] The bill, registration number 5657, offered to exempt individuals from taxation from income tax in the form of interest accrued from bank deposits and savings certificates by assigning them to a list of incomes that do not include the total monthly or annual tax income of the taxpayer. That is, it was suggested not to tax the specified income in the future without a time limit. That's the first difference. And the second difference is, it doesn't correspond to article 9, article 9 of the bill. In view of the above, the National Deputies of Ukraine, as a result of a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking on 14 September 2004, decided unanimously to introduce a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation on the Income of Persons. The purpose of the amended bill is to increase the creditworthiness of banks to lend to the economy by increasing the attractiveness of deposits for individuals, investors. In particular, by suspending income tax in the form of interest tax on bank deposits and savings certificates. Given the importance and relevance of this bill, we ask you, honourable colleagues, to support the bill number 5657, which has been finalized, and to adopt it in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u111	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who have been enrolled to participate in the discussion. Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. Please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u112	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. In May 2003, this Hall passed the Income Tax Act, which, as you know, provided for the taxation of interest income of five percent. These standards have been effective since January 1, 2005. I recall that the reasonable ones in charge of this matter were speaking out against this law. Motivating this is that we double-count the income of Ukrainian citizens. After all, before depositing money into a bank or savings book, each citizen of Ukraine has already paid a income tax. Let's be honest, because a bank or other financial institution where money is invested by citizens is making more money on these investments than the interest paid to the investor. And that's perfectly natural, or banks wouldn't be interested in deposits. But what's interesting. Of the meager percentages paid to the payer, he must pay the tax. This can be understood when a rich person holds hundreds of thousands of dollars in a bank and earns a solid income. Then it can be understood that it is necessary to share with the State. But if a pensioner deposited thousands or two thousand dollars in good money and expects them to earn a meager income, which would be more than a modest addition to his pension, and he still has to pay the tax to the state, it would be hard to understand. Of course, in today’s economic conditions, the introduction of such a tax is premature. Maybe someday he will be a serious and powerful source of government budget coming, but that will be when we have an economically strong state to look after and protect our citizens. Today, on the basis of common sense, we would have to agree with the authors of laws that introduce interest on bank deposits, deposits not on January 1, 2005, but on January 1, 2010. I believe that the implementation of the project will increase investor confidence in banks, develop the banking system as a whole, and avoid tax pressure on Ukrainian citizens. Me and my colleagues from the Communist faction of Ukraine will vote in favour of this law because it will at least slightly improve the economic situation of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u113	Thank you, too. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, we have two drafts with you. The first Bill 5657, reported by a Turkish colleague, provides for changes to paragraph 4.3.23 of article 4.3 of the Fourth Income Tax Act, according to which interest on bank deposits and savings in deposit certificates is excluded from the general or annual taxation of income. The second project, which was reported, terminates the deadline when these five percent are removed from January 1, 2005, on January 1, 2010. Now a lot of people listen to me and think, well, what's the price of a big question? I have great respect for the opinion of the Turkinov People's Deputy, and I will, of course, vote for his project, as well as for the opinion of the colleagues of Burjak, Tushka, Teryochina, Kaputin. And I figured, on the average, if you take a bracelet and a currency percentage, you get about 12 percent on average. This is the annual rate. 5 percent of 12 percent is 0.6 percent -- that's what they can take from these people today who put money in the bank. I'm asking myself, is it big or small? It's probably a small amount. And maybe that sum would have been needed for an extra redistribution among those. From the budget, among those who now have nothing, because we now see that Janukovic has become so famous, that the hole in the Pension Budget is now 11 billion, and another 4 billion, and that 15 billion. That's what a professor with two "f's" is all about. And they all ran away from responsibility -- and the National Bank, and they all ran away. Ladies and gentlemen, raise your hand, please, because you understand what you've done, and your head of the National Bank has gone along with it. So, ladies and gentlemen, these coins need to be collected somewhere, they need to be picked up a little bit. And that's why I don't think we're going to say that we don't trust the bank. If every 0.6 percent of the amount that he gets in the bank pays, at least it'll be clear that any amount that is the income of citizens should be taxed. I propose in the first reading to adopt now both the bill and then to reconcile them, to find something medium, to justify well, as we are in the budget now submitted by this provisional government, performing duties. Who sit on three chairs, Mr. Azar, as he is included in the budget? I want to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u115	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u116	Vladimir Yavorowski Yavorov, Zovkwa, Rava Ruska, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, if I'm not mistaken, Robert Frost seems to have said that the bank is such an institution where, when it's dry, you'll be given an umbrella, but when the rain starts, they'll tell you to return this umbrella immediately. It seems to me that today we have the opportunity to look back on this brief and tragic history of the banking system already in an independent Ukraine, and we have to say that banks today are in the zone of general public mistrust and, if you want, caution. And there's absolutely every reason for that if you look for all the stories of the banking downturns, the banking adventures that have already taken place in our eyes. And today's generation of Ukrainians remember all this very well: and the same bank "Ukraine", whose supervisory board, by the way, was headed by Satsuk. He was very much talked about today, and this situation has not been brought to mind. And it was because of him that the biggest loans went out, and then they never came back and never came back. Because I understand very well that this bill does not actually apply to many millions of our ordinary people today who don't have bank accounts or the same book, and of course it's not scary to them, and it doesn't reflect because there's small amounts. But somewhere in the middle class we're born, we're richer. We really have to go to this, temporarily -- I emphasize this, temporarily withdraw this tax, in order to make the banking system of Ukraine a little bit more attractive. I am convinced that this must be done for many. You saw during the debate yesterday that Victor Fedorovich refused Leonid Danilovich. He is now completely alone. And that reminds us again of that old parable that turns out to be, and the presidents fall just like the sandwiches: face to face. A lonely person. He'll have to return the money to Ukraine because he has to live for something. And no one will accept him abroad today. Because if we take those taxes off, I think even Leonid Danilovich will support us in this. And it'll be totally in his favor. Let's vote for that. It's a normal bill, one and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u117	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the bill is designed to support small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine, that is, the driving force of the orange revolution, as some today are proclaiming and proud of it. What is the essence of the question? Bill 5657, reported by a Turkish colleague, suggests that the taxation of interest on bank deposits and deposits be abolished altogether. The second bill, 5657, proposes to postpone, i.e. postpone the introduction of such taxation from 1 January 2005 to 2010, and in 5 years that propose to postpone the introduction of this bill or the application will die, or the authorities that are approaching us will be destroyed. If you have a big account, I'd like to suggest you discuss this. We actually have small deposits in bank accounts when a person is just ordinary with a small salary and he saves this money to buy housing for his children or grandchildren, or for study, or for treatment. I would generally agree that such savings in bank accounts should not be taxed. But beyond a certain limit, it could be done and laid, as it is done in what is called civilised countries of civilized democracy. So when I studied the State Tax Administration's 8-Der 2003 manual as we have and where the largest, we'll talk, the revenue builds up, it becomes clear. That today's biggest income and the biggest savings are happening in an environment of small and medium-sized enterprise that hasn't even gotten on its feet. But that money, that income that the millionaires receive, and we now have is approaching a thousand, including 300 million people settled here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such income and such bank accounts would certainly have to be bet a percentage of them. So I invite the drafters to think about how to introduce a proportional scale for laying such a percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Bills are closed. Sergey Burjak, head of the committee. It's a closing statement. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to two aspects. First. Since deposits and deposits are not subject to taxation, they now fall out of the field of interest, such as tax authorities. If we put even 0.6 per cent, or 1, or 2, or 5, it would therefore allow us to enter the database and ask any questions, as it would already be subject to taxation. That's the first position. Second position. Deposit income is not included in the draft budget that we will consider with you tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. Please support both the first reading and, in general, the law number 5657 has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! I'm putting bills to the vote as soon as I get there. The first is Bill No. 5657 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax of Persons. [[authors of Turkinov, Seminoga]] [[on taxation of interest on bank deposits]] Please vote. [[13:32:18]] For 116 The bill is not supported. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax, registration number 5657-D. [[on taxation of interest on bank deposits]] Please vote. [[13:32:57]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Committee proposes to accept as a whole the Law. No warning? The proposal for approval by the Committee as a whole of the draft law, registration number 5657-d, is put to the vote, as the Act amending the Law on Income Taxes of Persons on Taxation of Interests in Banking Investments. Please vote. I can't see the warning. Please vote. [[13:33:37]] For 313 The law is passed. Nigger Vladimir Kirilovich, I just didn't see it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u122	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for giving me your word after the train left, I think the hall knows what it's doing, I just wanted to say that deposits are not an object of taxation, if we want to do them, it should be done very delicately, carefully and the tool should be used elegantly, otherwise we can do damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u123	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Recognition has been announced for consideration in such a way that some decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6015, the Minister of Justice, Mr. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, will be represented by the Deputy Head of the Committee for the Finance of Banking Activities, Mr. Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich. We passed the previous Law 313, didn't we? 313. The law was passed earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u124	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, your opinion is proposed by the law on recognition in such a way that certain decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have become invalid. This is about the need to bring Ukraine’s legal acts into line with the requirements of article 92 of the Constitution of our State, according to which it is solely by law to determine matters settled by a number of decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Most valid government decrees have lost their relevance to today because their standards have exhausted, as stipulated in the decrees themselves, or have already been regulated by other laws of Ukraine. A complete list of these decrees is added. I hope we have to settle this issue in such a way that in Ukraine such a phenomenon as decrees remain only a historical memory. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u125	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin of the Committee on Finance and Banking, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u126	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, having considered the draft Law on Recognition on 5 October this year, which has become invalid, some decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and acts of the Supreme Council. In the list of decrees that are proposed in accordance with the bill to recognize that they have become invalid, most Kabmin decrees have been included, which have become obsolete because their standards have either been exhausted or have been regulated by the relevant laws of Ukraine. At its meeting, the Committee supported the results of the fruitful work of the Cabinet in regulating the rules of law in force and bringing them into line with the requirements of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. But the committee notes that the proposed bill did not include a number of other Cabinet decrees that had lost their relevance for the reasons mentioned above. We proposed that in October the government, as the author of the legislative initiative, should add a comprehensive list of such decrees to the second reading. Well, until they got, unfortunately, that's not what they were doing. It should also be noted that the bill does not clearly define the procedure for the loss of validity of certain decrees, as well as the list of decrees that have lost your validity, are once again not all decrees that regulate matters already regulated by laws, or the period of action that has ended. So the bill that we have introduced, we think, needs substantial work to be done to take into account the rules and regulations of legal technology. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the proposed first-reading project can be taken as a basis. Well, given what we've been taught, we're going to propose that we base this bill and we're going to work on it for the second reading already in the Supreme Council, because I understand that the government is not going to do that again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u127	Thank you. Let us now move on to the discussion. People’s deputies — Mironenko, Carmazin, Semenyuk, Solomatine, Šibko — were enrolled. Please, Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u128	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Crimea. Respectable compatriots, distinguished people's deputies, respected Vladimir Mihajlovich. In the view of the Communist faction, the bill should be supported on first reading. But I think the comments of the Scientific and Expert Management should be made as well. Two of them I agree with, three of them I don't. The first observation is as follows. Repeal of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree of 23 April 1993 amending the Single Customs Tariff Act. That is, a legal act that only entails amending another act of existing legislation is one that is written by the Scientific and Expert Office, which is not in line with the legal practice of correcting the provisions of the legal basis of Ukraine, which has emerged at a modern stage. Thus, the recognition of this decree by those who have lost their validity appears to be unwarranted. Second remark to article 20, paragraph “in”, of the “One Customs Tariff” Act, which provides that the bill. rules were included in the new edition to provide that other than those listed in this article, where tariffs are allowed to be reduced when imported into and exported to customs territory of Ukraine and beyond the borders of goods and other items, should not be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by laws and international treaties of Ukraine. I agree with that. Well, here's the third observation of the Scientific and Expert Office, which leads to the fact that, if you're going to surf, it's going to be done, it's going to be a law that's consistent with the privatisation of the Orizon factory. I think we should stop this privatization at all. For some reason, we assume that everything must be privatized, and we do not take into account that forms of property do not affect productivity. Public collective forms of property can provide even higher productivity than private enterprises. As an example, public enterprises in France, Italy and other States, a cooperative allowing Mandragora in Spain to operate from about four people, and 20 years later, it reached 26,000. and successfully competed with private enterprises in agricultural, industrial and even scientific activities. It is therefore time for our State and our people to stop this process of privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u129	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Valentine's Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of the "Our Ukraine" bloc. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today this bill will report directly to the Minister of Justice, because many issues in society are already being accumulated with the Minister of Justice, and I'm going to propose that we adopt this bill in the first reading, because we need to forget with you what decrees are. Just forget it. After the adoption of the new Constitution, Alexander Volodymyrovich, the word "decree" is not entirely legitimate. And you understand that very well. So let's just forget about it. But very quickly, in the first quarter, as soon as President Yushchenko is elected, he will cross all the decrees and make normal legislation new. I don't want to speak in separate laws right now, to decrees that contradict. I want to say now on global issues: every minute now in Ukraine, the Constitution and other legislative acts are brutally violated. I mean the fact that it's illegal to go around the Supreme Council to renew what's called the old Attorney General Piscoon's work. And you didn't, Mr. Minister, even though your people took part in the Cave Court, you didn't even complain about that decision. But you may have known that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of May 7, 2002 in Case 1/-1/2002 No. 8 of the President's Constitutional application concerning the official provisions of the second and third parts of article 124 of the Constitution, the matter of the subordination of acts of appointment or dismissal of officials. So, in paragraph 1.2 of the Constitutional Court's decision, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council as a guarantor today of the Constitution of Ukraine, because you have heard that even for Judge Yanukovich twice, even Kuchma is no longer a guarantor. I am addressing you as a guarantor after constitutional changes, it says here that "the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the acts of the President and with the legal acts of the Supreme Council does not exclude the possibility of an appeal before the courts of general jurisdiction of acts of the President or decisions of the Supreme Council of an individual nature on the question of appointment or dismissal from office as regards their legality, except for those acts which are the result of the constitutional and political responsibility of articles 115, 122 and others. The Constitution of Ukraine of Officials." And the matter of appointing the Attorney General and the Attorney General is article 12 of the Constitution. Thus, today all appointments, all criminal cases, everything else is totally illegal. I'm addressing you, I'm addressing all the judges in Ukraine: think about what happens when an illegal person creates illegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u131	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u132	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, thank God, we've reached the time when we're canceling the decree period, which in the Ukrainian people will probably be long remembered as a terrible nightmare, because that decretinctory period took away the very period of our savings, destroyed our economy. And when I look at the fourth paragraph, it stands for the "replacement of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on income tax for businesses and organizations," it's that document, more loyally, that law that our enterprises actually stopped because the benefits of this enterprise were paid to those who imported properly uncontrolled goods here, that is to say that the decree created a corresponding artificial competitor for their manufacturer. And the individual positions of this paragraph were stopped by us in Parliament in 1994. And that's already a good thing. In 1992, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, spoke out, said that special benefits should not be granted, decrees should be issued that would have the power of laws, because this is a kind of secrecy in the adoption and preparation of these decrees. I think we're going to get to the time that this secrecy in the form of decrees is also going to cancel out just us in the session room. For that, it was both preparation and the work that we did in carrying out constitutional reform. And the positions that are being noted today in that we are repealing these decrees, in particular with regard to both privatization and, in particular, the liberalisation of external activity, are actually a mechanism that has been implemented for only one: for the economy of Ukraine to be broken. And thanks to Parliament's adoption in 1996, we've stopped the period in some way of this decree and the ability to accept today is only balanced in the session room this document. The Socialist Party faction supports this document. What I'm saying is that our leader didn't support the period of decretification. And in 1994, when special orders were issued, we did not support them either. And I think we should start somewhere from the new session period, I mean from February, we should start going back to looking at those decrees that were issued during the reporting period. And this period is going to be reviewed and it's going to allow for a balanced, balanced look at those decrees that were issued, especially in terms of both privatization and division and distribution and distribution. So, I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it would be very good to take this document as the basis for today's document, and we've also set up a protocol commission: to look at those decrees that are actually already regulated by the law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u133	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, Bill No. 6015 the government is a testimony to the fact that, during a bourgeois convolution called for revolutionary purpose by decrees, by separate decrees, general national property was stolen. The time has come. These decrees and decrees have lost their validity and relevance and can really be repealed. But I'd like to tell you and turn to our radio audiences that there is a constant confusion about the deliberate notion of revolution and counter revolution, and I would like to say a few words about that. For most of our citizens, the word "revolution" is associated with the great events of October 17th, when for the first time in human history, the exploitation class was deprived of power, and the power went to the labour force, and a great nation of workers, peasants and labour intelligence, the Soviet Union, was created. For bourgeois, it was a black riot. There is no doubt that just after the Great Yellow Ukraine has acquired all the signs of statehood, it has become the most consummate, the largest territory in history. And when in 1991, from the standpoint of the working people, there was a counter-revolution, and the laborers were deprived of power and property, those who came to power declared that this revolution. In fact, it's a revolution for bourgeoisie. In 2000, part of the MPs, including those who now form part of Our Ukraine, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, led by Medvedczuk and Volkova, were set up in the Supreme Council of the Rebellion, when the faction of the Company, the Social Party, the Progressive Socialist Party of Leadership in some parliamentary committees was denied, and this lawlessness was called "a barbarca revolution," although really revolutionary in terms of the labor people here was nothing, it was a riot. Now the same organizers of the velvet Sabbath quarreled with each other. At the direction and funding of American imperialism, an orange spectacle was staged that rejected Ukraine by economics a few years ago, which the United States eventually wanted. Capitalists, eventually, agree, and yesterday's debates testify to this, they're already negotiating, they're being forced into this fear, fear of losing power, ownership and capital, and it's understood by any educated person. This purely capitalist action has no bearing on the revolution alone. That's why we demand not to disgrace the word "revolution" for many Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Turn on the microphone from the Motivation. And invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to give my colleagues a historical report and our radio listeners that the need for decrees was adopted at the first meeting of the Supreme Council, and most of the deputies of this council are members of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. So what I want to stress is that you've seen this kind of necessity, because it dictates every time it's necessary for normative documents. That should be accepted in our country. And as for what needs to be voted on, I think we should take it on the basis of today and the second reading, and then there will be other work on other decrees, and we'll go back to that in another law, and now, I think, putting it on the second reading is not appropriate, so what they're saying is that it needs to be supplemented by some other decrees. [[And here's the minister very specifically said.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? A proposal for a committee on the adoption of the draft Recognition Act is put to the vote in such a way that certain decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have become invalid. [[Registration number 6015]] Please vote. [[13:52:59]] For 263 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next documents. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act on powers in the field of regulation of financial services 5296, 5296-1, 5296-2 is submitted for consideration. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Homutinnik, Morozov and Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets Suslov Viktor Ivanovic. Please continue our morning session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u138	Honorary colleagues, the bill amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act, was designed to introduce the provisions of the Ukrainian Insurance Act in accordance with the Financial Services Act and the national regulation of financial services markets. The latter is determined that regulation of financial services markets is carried out by a specially authorized executive body in the field of regulation of financial services markets, or services. In this regard, the Commission has the right to issue the legal and regulatory acts required for the execution of financial institutions. At the same time, the Insurance Act provides that individual matters of the insurance market are regulated by decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. These are questions such as: the size of insurance charges and the maximum size of insurance rates, the method of actuarial accounting by mandatory types of insurance, the requirement for insurance companies and insurance brokers, and so on. All of these issues would be more appropriate to be resolved within the scope of the activities of the holder’s services as a specially authorized body in the insurance market. So in the bill, we propose to pass on the provisions of the law on the insurance of the Cabinet of Ministers' authorization to the service. This will allow for a more rapid response to changes in the insurance market, which is now evolving dynamically and will have a positive impact on the implementation of government regulation and the supervision of insurance services. Considering the importance of the bill proposed for consideration, please support its adoption as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u139	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Have a seat, please. Bill number 5296-1 will be reported by Morozov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u140	I'm from the committee. In general, the Financial Committee considers it a consistent idea for the Commission to transfer the regulation of financial services markets relating to the operational supervision of the management and coordination of the insurance market in Ukraine. If a special authority has been created to monitor the relevant market segment, it must be empowered to do so. Given this, the committee considers it appropriate to support Project 5296-2, but in the first reading. Then it is necessary to give the commission time to prepare a clear plan of action, to develop a systematic approach to regulating the insurance market, which was discussed in an expert opinion from the subcommittee. Support for the bill as a whole, in our view, perhaps only after the Committee on Finance hears a memorandum prepared by the Commission. The memorandum should clearly define the purpose, role, principles and programmes of activity of the authorized body, market vision, its problems, prospects, and a set of measures to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Finance Markets and Services of Suslov Viktor Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u142	Dear people's deputies, I'll be brief. The purpose of the law is to bring the Insurance Act into line with the Financial Services Act. This relates to the establishment of a State Commission for the Regulation of the Market in Financial Services. We had a long discussion with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who had agreed to transfer its powers under the Insurance Act to the State Commission for the Regulation of the Market in Financial Services. The Government proposes to accept the proposal of the Committee on Finance and Banking to approve on the first reading of the bill submitted by the Government, provided that the second reading would take into account the proposals contained in the bills submitted by the People's Deputies. We therefore support the proposal to adopt the draft on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u143	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich, please sit down. Shall we vote? Mironenko, it's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u144	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots, respected Adam Ivanovich. This bill will be a faction, three bills will be supported by the faction on first reading. Let's say I have comments about licensing. I believe that this function must be retained beyond the Cabinet of Ministers in order to be of great objectivity. Because we often say that we don't, we often find that even industries, between industries, between businesses, and so on. Well, I would like to make a statement by the representative of the Socialist Party, who has just spoken, to say the following. You don't have to lie to people as much as you can. It's clear you're out of the socialist way. It is your right to remain capitalist. The author who just said that the communists supported the surfing. There were Communists when those decrees were issued and so forth. At the time, Ukraine's Compartia had not yet been restored, it had not yet been restored. Why lie? That's the first one. Second. That's what it sounded like. Second. Tell me, please, you're lying to us all the time. Why? You'll remember, right now you're upset, and I was telling the truth. At the first convention, you said, socialists, that we would recover the communists. That's the same thing at the second convention. I'd be at two conventions, and you lied to people. You haven't recovered from the Company. I've recovered, and you haven't. You lied. I always tell the truth, I try, at least after that, I can make a mistake. Why are you acting like this? It is clear that you are voting in favour of privatization, and then you are making laws to make changes to that effect. And that's what Gurov said to you: first, you provide "admission" to the oligarchs that you like, which may be giving you something, and then you introduce draft laws that don't systematically change anything, and then you continue to privatize. You're justifying that you're seeing some Swedish version. They go from private to public, to collective property. And with your help, socialists, "Our Ukraine", the Timoshenko bloc is being implemented with the help of a private, 100 per cent private property. Only 20 per cent remained to be privatized. And you're running commissions there anyway. There's no protruding. You're lying to people. Why are you doing this? Also, pay attention. The campaign is now under way. Why lie? You support the representative of the oligarchs, whether the pro-Americans there are oligarchs or something, but the oligarchs are great capitalists, you're kind of socialists. And the one who made the remark was admitting to me that he didn't believe in the juice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u145	Please, Karmazin, follow him Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u146	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Adam Ivanovich, I'll be two minutes. One minute, please tell our colleagues to fight against Mr. Shibko's anti-national Bush-Yanukowic regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised to see how we are today considering drafts signed by whom? Former Prime Minister of Ukraine Yanukovic. Who is he today? - The interim government was. And now the government is retired, i.e. no one. Thus, from a legal point of view, we should have now filed an i.o. The Prime Minister of whom? Nikolai Janovića Azarova. We have this kind of netting. How can we support this project, please tell me? That he was once acting Prime Minister? I believe that the normal Cabinet of Ministers will now come, which will be appointed by Victor Yushchenk, who will comply with the requirements of article 113 of the Constitution that he is the highest authority in the system of executives and will propose changes to whether he agrees to share some of the powers. In principle, I would vote for it, but what these temporary people are offering today will not give me the opportunity to vote for it. I just can't vote for it. That is why I will not vote for it. In addition, the additional conditions and licensing that exist here also do not allow for this. Adam Ivanovich, please pass on the time I have left.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u147	Please, Shibka's microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u148	weakly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to return to the historical record: a party of Bolsheviks before the age of 17 was underground, but there was a party. Therefore, if they were Communists and the party was banned, it would in no way relieve them of their responsibility, it would be the first. And secondly, I just wanted to tell my colleagues: in each party, my program is "and its path is wide," and let's choose this path and choose the right to be one or the other party that's from the people, just with the people, not just to talk to each other right here in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u149	Please, Yavorowski's microphone, behind it Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u150	Vladimir Yavorowski, Zovva, Yavorov, Rava Ruska, Dubljani, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, we are indeed dealing with a purely technological, formally purely technological bill in which we want to put out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers and pass it on to a new commission. It's logical to think that there's nothing to discuss, and that's more: I want to support this bill so that this bill can fulfill its promise that when everyone gives up Kuchma, I'll probably be one of the few who will somehow protect and support him. He issued this decree, he created this commission. That's why I'm in favour of voting for this bill. And I want to add another one. To tell my respectable, highly respected colleagues that we do not need to build right now, we do not need to arrest society today for these powerful talents. The question was put to the vote, put by the Head. Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u151	Give him a chance to finish, he's got three minutes. Two more minutes, please. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u152	The question was put to the vote. It doesn't add up, they put a dot. Well, why don't you give me this wound to pour salt? If anyone gets up before the election and talks about it, I promise you, I'll take the lists of the disabled third and second groups who are here among the national deputies, who have made these invalids a bunch, and then you'll get up and explain to the people who are disabled, and whether you can come to the polling station or you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u153	Thank you. Even the first group are some. Yes, please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u154	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the prescribed bill creates or imposes some machination on the capitalist relationship in our society. And this make-up, it's meant to be from the Cabinet of Ministers, who, as it were, is no longer able to manage everything in the state, to transfer a portion of the authority to a separate authorized authority, the Derfin Service, for the purpose of operational supervision and control of the insurance market in Ukraine. How many such authorized bodies we have created! If the Cabinet of Ministers gave us a list of them, and that's a very interesting thought, and it seems like we need to ask the Cabinet to give us a complete list of all the structures that were created, we've given ourselves a miracle. I just want to say one thing about it. Nice to meet you. One word of caution. which appeared in the reports of those who proposed to the colleagues who proposed the bill. It's a memo. There is still a memorandum to be drawn up to determine the ratio, nature and relationship between the State in the form of the Cabinet of Ministers and this structure of the Ministry, but it will not only appear to represent the State's interests, but also interests more quickly and more than ever, those structures that, on a commercial basis, will be engaged in various kinds of risk insurance. So I ask myself, and I ask you. In this case, if this bill is passed, what will be given to the ordinary little Ukrainian citizen of Ukraine? He may seem to receive something, but first of all he will receive those who will be involved in the provision of these services, especially those who will control the participants in this insurance market. So I want to say that our first-reading faction supports the committee's proposal to approve this bill on the need to regulate financial services markets, but we will insist that these services first and foremost, and this relationship in this market, they serve the interests of a small Ukrainian, a ordinary citizen of Ukraine, who so far suffers from the abuse that comes from those who call themselves national elites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u155	Yes, dear colleagues, now. We've got Chernowitz. I can't see. He's got a draft decision on inadmissibility. Yes, please, for the motive of the vote, the Negro microphone, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! We consider, at first glance, such a narrow and special question, but it is, in fact, extremely relevant, important and promising. In Ukraine, the financial services market is growing, and the volume of financial services is increasing. This makes it necessary to regulate it, to regulate it effectively, to regulate it adequately. And to do that, a special body has been created, and it needs to be empowered by this body, a function that it can also regulate legislatively its activities so that it can perform these functions. In this regard, I believe that the bill deserves support. What does a small Ukrainian get? Answer. It's going to get an effective market for financial services and, above all, it's going to get, I hope, a stable market. So prices will not go up, and it's good for all Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Suslov Viktor Ivanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! What will society receive from the adoption of this law? You'll be able to ask from a specific body, you'll know who's responsible for this area -- insurance, full-time reinsurance. This responsibility is now divided into: partly behind Kabmin, partly behind us. We are still in charge of status, supervision and licensing, but on many issues we have to go to the Cabinet of Ministers and for months to make a breakthrough. Sometimes we go six months, sometimes eight months or more. Accordingly, the lack of resolution of oversight of financial institutions has led to the loss of savings by citizens in the past, as has been the case with trusts. Therefore, in this case, the Financial Services Act provides for these powers for our commission. The Insurance Act provides that they belong to Kabmin. A number of trials are under way because someone believes that Kabmin should have made a decision and the Financial Services Act should have been decided by the Commission. That is, we ask you for one, to bring the two laws adopted by the Supreme Council into line and to agree that some powers will be further delegated to the Commission by the Cabinet of Ministers and we will take decisions quickly, quickly and effectively. Because it is also wrong to create organs and not give them full and complete authority and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u159	Please, Shurma. Wait a minute. Please, Shurma's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u160	Igor Shurma, faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine united. In our view, the bill should state that an authorized body is a special authority of executive authority in the field of regulation of financial services markets, or a government commission in the regulation of financial services markets. And the function is set, setting the size of the pay for issuing licenses for specific types in our view should be left behind by the Cabinet of Ministers. The faction believes that it is necessary to adopt the bill as a basis, and to consolidate the three bills into one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-21-m0.u161	Thank you. Let's be clear, fellow honourable Members, I would only like to ask Yuri Anatoliyovich not to be so categorical, and it doesn't matter who signed and passed these bills, because in our practice of legislation there is, even another, that there is no Cabinet of Ministers, and if the new Cabinet of Ministers is coming and is not calling off those bills that are in the Supreme Council, we are considering those bills. So here. Well, maybe you don't think it's right, but we're not violating anything. There is no such thing in the Constitution, Yuri Anatolyevich. I'll bet, we'll finish, then we'll talk. I'm putting to the vote the draft decision of the Montenegrin People's Deputy on the inadmissibility of the proposed bills. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:15:12]] For two. The decision is not taken. For the factions, it's understandable. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act, registration number 5296. [[on powers in the field of regulation of financial services markets]] We'll get to three two. [[14:15:49]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Overruled. I'm betting on a bill number 5296-1. [[14:16:16]] For 118 Not accepted. Overruled. I'll bet the vote on the draft number 5296-2. Please vote. [[14:16:39]] For 196 The factions, please. Now, now, take your time. "Our Ukraine" - 43; "Ukraine's Regions" - 26; Communists - 50; Social Democrats - 0; National Agrarian Party - 21; Socialist - 20; "Ukrainian One" - 1; Timoshenko Block - 13; "Soyuz" - 0; "Centre" - 7; "Democratic Initiatives" - 4; "Trubic Ukraine" - 1; NDP, Industrial Party - 0; Non-fractional - 10. Dear colleagues, let's move forward in this way that we'll take the first reading of 5296-2 and assign a profile committee to prepare for the second reading, and we'll have to take into account the valuable positions of the two previous ones. Vote? Vote. Please support this decision. [[14:17:40]] For 217 Dear colleagues, we haven't made it. Let's mobilize. Mobilize. I understand you've passed out a little before the break. Let's take one last breath. Ready? We vote 5296-2 with the commission of the committee to consider two previous drafts in preparation for the second reading. Please vote. [[14:18:27]] For 243 Thank you. Decision taken. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break till 4:00.
