ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:50]] Registered -420 The 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, are holding another government day at the morning session. However, according to the initiative of the Committee and the Conciliation Council, it is now suggested that you listen to information about the extraordinary event that took place on May 6, 2004, on the basis of the storage of ammunition, number 285 of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Reva Grigory Vasilovich, Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, will provide information. We agreed to offer you such a rule. Dear colleagues, since this is about eliminating the consequences, I will now give you a complete explanation. So for information -- 10 minutes, answers to questions -- in 15 minutes. And from the committee to hear also the information of Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich, head of the committee that was directly at the scene. We agreed that once the work of the State Commission, which investigates all circumstances in a comprehensive manner, we would also address this issue in a comprehensive manner in the session room. And now we need to get comprehensive information to handle all the circumstances of this tragedy. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention! Two factions require a break of 30 minutes or are ready to take their stand immediately, for which they are going to take a break. Anatoly Matvienko, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed not to interrupt. We have to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Let me inform you of the reasons for the statements made by the two factions - "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Timoshenko" about the requirement to take a break. The statement of intermission was sparked by our misunderstanding and protest against the involvement, trainfulness and inaction of law enforcement agencies in investigating criminal acts during the elections in Mukachevo, the city’s head. The other one. We are deeply concerned about the inconsistencies between the actions of the President of Ukraine, who commissioned the Attorney General to investigate and report to him by May 1st. And he declared his willingness to accept the harshest of measures. Today, May 11th -- no more information, no more information, no more world society, no more Ukrainian society. Third. We have great doubts as to whether we have a government of Ukraine, whether there is a prime minister of Ukraine, who has absolutely no response to the extremely serious problem created in Mukachevo. It's not Mukachevo's problem, it's the problem of democracy, the prospect of Ukraine's development. We do not understand why today the Prime Minister does not respond to the involvement of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Minister personally in these criminal and gang activities. Why there is no reaction by the Prime Minister to the conduct of the district and district administrations to which he has a direct bearing. Fourth, we don't understand the leadership of the Supreme Council. We have already developed a habit of impunity, ignoring the decision of the Supreme Council or its conciliatory commission. After all, we agreed to listen to the results on May 11th at the Conciliation Council. Today we have a given agenda, no indication that we should listen to these questions at the meeting of the Supreme Council, we have not received it. As a result of a consultation with the Governing Body, including a conversation at the Conciliation Council, we have been assured that we will listen to reports, and today we insist that these reports be heard informally and prepared. We therefore agree that today, with the participation of all interested parties, and the Head of the Supreme Council, bilateral and multilateral consultations should be held personally, with the leadership of the power structures. We urge that immediately after these negotiations, the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council inform the Supreme Council when, tomorrow or perhaps tomorrow, if that is the case, we will hear the decision on the order of the day and the order of hearing of the forces. We want to find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u3	Give me a minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u4	We want to find out why today, let's say, the Attorney General's Office, by continuing its 20-day investigation, has never protested the decision of the territorial electoral commission when there are all the original documents that confirm the falsification of the 12th district elections, when there are names of criminals who have committed this forgery. The General Prosecutor’s Office does not bring an action against the decision of the territorial election committee. We demand a protest that an illegal session of the City Council has been held because the session is to be convened in a situation that occurred in Mukachevo, or one third of the deputies, or commission, and not before the day. The session was convened in 12 hours, called by the head of the territorial constituency, held a session, and closed the session. This is a gross violation of the Law on Local Self - Rule. Unfortunately, there is no adequate response, as there is much more. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we now demand that we actually take part in consultations and immediately hear reports from the power structures and make decisions on these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. Let me get this straight. Since when the information was being considered, I was absent and was away from the mission, and I was similarly in the same position as Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council informed me that the Conciliation Council had actually agreed that if the work in the Supreme Council was unlocked, then the report of the leaders of the power structures would be heard on May 11th, but they did not reach the agreement. Today at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that I would meet with the heads of law enforcement, find out how ready they are to inform the Supreme Council about the events that took place in Mukacheva, and talk to them about hearing these reports tomorrow. And now we have every reason to continue the fruitful work of Parliament. I would like to announce that, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukrainian National Deputies: Hmelnicky Vasil Ivanovich, as well as Lev Mirimsky, have declared their withdrawal from the People's Rule of Law group and to join the People's Choice Group. Please, Reva Grigory Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection Against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. By order of the government, I report that on May 6th, 50 minutes on the 275th artillery base, where 91,000 631 tons of ammunition are stored, there was a fire with further detonation. [[It's 4,800 conditional wagons.]] It was previously established that about 12 hours on the same day, military personnel of the A-3283, who were assigned to the A-2985 military area, where the tragedy took place, in the ranks of Private Selina and Pavluca, were carrying out the work of stacking boxes with ammunition on track number 28. Military officials, statutory requirements, and warehouse fire regulations allowed smoking directly at the site of the work that resulted in fires and explosions. One man died, four died, and another four were injured. Energy, transportation for other communications, social facilities, and housing in the affected area were seriously damaged. The total damage to the Ministry of Defence is more than 2 billion 252 million, the civilian population is 1 million 496,000 dollars. It should be noted that the government has responded immediately to the event. On May 6th, a state-owned committee of technological and environmental security and emergency situations led by Deputy Prime Minister Klavov Andri Petrovic began working directly in the area of emergency. On May 7th, the government's order to take priority action on the elimination of the consequences of emergencies allocated 6 million 796 thousand dollars, of which 4 million dollars have already arrived in Zaporez. On the same day, the President of Ukraine, in connection with the unsatisfying implementation of the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council and its mandate to preserve weapons, ammunition and explosives on arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces, ordered the establishment of a special commission led by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. On 8 May, the Prime Minister of Ukraine personally worked in the area of events and determined a number of specific tasks aimed primarily at the safety and normalization of the vitality of the affected population, as well as the conduct of a thorough investigation into the causes of the event and the accountability of all those responsible, irrespective of the positions taken. The main content of decisions, tasks and actions taken is as follows. First. Protecting the population and vitally important objects from possible harm. The other one. Creating conditions to restore the normal activity of the affected population. Third. The localization of the source of immediate danger and the avoidance of possible emergencies in other arsenals, bases, and warehouses. Two special trains, 83 buses, and 100 other vehicles were involved in the practical implementation of the defined evacuation from the most potentially vulnerable locations. The evacuated population, of which 6,000,963 were from eleven locations, was housed in prepared hotels, hostels, schools, and hospitals, in populated areas outside the area of possible impression. A regular hot meal and medical care were arranged at the temporary evacuation sites. The local executive authorities were responsible for the management of the evacos. At the same time, the Department of Emergency Situations, the Department of Defense, arriving at the scene, began to examine, demarcate. The actual potential deployment zone was divided between the MNS and the Ministry of Defence into sectors of responsibility. The Ministry of Defense and the Department of Firearms, together with local authorities, are clearing the area of explosive objects, both planned and at the request of local authorities and the population. The first thing to do is to remove the ammunition that was found in the locations that did not explode. Explosive objects found in the earth are removed as far as possible. The ammunition that can't be removed in a short period of time is affected by areas and removed further because individual shells have entered the ground to 3 meters. Through local media to the populations of affected areas, information has been provided regarding the turning of citizens in the event they detect explosive items by telephones from the operational services of 01, 02, the military part of the MNS, the military units, the Melitopolsky and Mikhail district. Today, more than 34 square miles [34 sq km] of cultivated area have been examined jointly, and 950 ammunition has been discovered and stored. Completely cleared of the ammunition of 7 inhabited sites. Measures are being taken to clean up the grasslands of general use. Taking into account the significant reduction in the level of danger to the population by the decision of the special commission of May 8, the ten - mile [10 km] area was inhabited, and from May 14, 9, the decision of the commission and the five - mile [5 km] zone was opened for the renewal of the population. The forces of MNS, the Ministry of Defence, and specially formed by local executive authorities have been reintroduced by reconstruction teams to rebuild housing funds, both in apartment buildings and in the private sector. Thanks to timely government assistance, the restoration work is fully materially provided. In addition, the traffic on railways and highways has been unlocked, which has temporarily ceased. Restored gas supply. In order to ensure the safety of the population and to avoid the illegal spread of explosive objects in the emergency zone of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, three rings of the environment are organized. The first is right outside the military. The second is at a five - mile [5 km] distance and fasts at the intersections of roads. The third is ten kilometers away. Today, fires continue to explode in separate fire centers in the base territory, but with less intensity and power. Under these conditions, the content of the tasks remains the same as at the beginning of the extraordinary event. But the emphasis and focus of the effort are moving to the plane of life security and the normal life - style of the population. To this end, the MNS and the Ministry of Defence are increasing the rate of land clearance in the actual deployment radius, up to 15 kilometers [15 km] and in a total area of over 300 square miles [300 sq km]. Other forces of restoration work in all areas that have had a devastating impact on extraordinary events. Honourable National MPs, the final conclusions on the causes of emergency situations, will be made by a special commission and the Attorney General’s Office, who has violated a criminal case for the destruction of military property and ammunition and in accordance with articles of the Ukrainian Procedural Code, has apprehended suspects in the commission of crimes. But even now, it can be clearly stated that this event is the result of indifference, neglect of legislation on security and protection of the population, lack of proper response to prescriptions and warnings by the supervisory authorities, both by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and by the Ministry of Defence. Who should be responsible? An extraordinary event is the result that the priority of preventing emergency situations has only been declared. Central and local executive authorities have not yet embraced this need, and they mention it when it comes to saving themselves. The events in Novogoddanówka, Artemovsk, are not those of measuring who stands on which pedestals. And like it or not, the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations has been designated by the President of Ukraine as the main organizing, governing and coordinating body in the area of protection of populations and territories from emergencies. And the last. If the reform of the Armed Forces and other military formations, technical equipment, the implementation of programs related to the destruction of obsolete weapons, ammunition will not be diverted into legislation and financially secured, we are destined to escalate technological catastrophes and social disruptions in the military environment. Honourable National MPs, the Government of Ukraine is working on an adequate situation, providing timely assistance to the population, villages carrying out rescue operations, and taking measures to prevent the occurrence of such situations. The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, representatives of other central executive authorities are responsible for their duties, and heroism in some cases also manifests. The main efforts of all those involved in eliminating the effects of the events are to ensure the safety of the affected population. And this problem will be solved in the near future in full. Knowing the situation from within, I am ready to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. What are the names of the national deputies on the board? 15 minutes to ask how we agreed. Polanchich, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u8	Dear Gregory Vasilovich, in general, we're very familiar with the practice of old times, when something is missing, it means or somewhere it's shared in some way, then it starts to burn. Don't you know what's visible on this base, because the Secretary of Defense said that there's going to be a fire like this on all bases and the whole of Ukraine is going to be on fire. Don't you know that half of these munitions have been stolen or not at all, and that's how this base started to burn? And it turns out that two of the Corporals failed and set this base on fire? What can you say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. The Office of the Attorney General, the Commission of Inquiry, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is working on the scene. I can't say exactly how things were going. But what I've done with the officers, with the other employees, I want to say that indifference, negligence, non-discrimination are very much present at this extraordinary event, except for others, as they say, cases, but that there is a human factor in this extraordinary event, I can confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u10	Isaiah, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u11	Dear Gregory Vasilovich, the information coming out of your ministry, has always been objective and truthful. And it's clear, you sewed it in a bag, they say you wouldn't hide it. Could you provide information on the number of casualties, injuries, and damage to housing and manufacturing facilities? [[You said a little bit, very little.]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u12	So the number of deaths: one person died directly from a head injury, four died, they say, because of various causes -- who died from a heart attack, who suffered four from another. 2095 different buildings, which were partially damaged, are broken glass, broken frames, and five buildings in the area of this warehouse are also destroyed; they are one two - story and four - story buildings, where families of military personnel lived. The damage was also caused by oil bases, shelled there, but put out the fire at the right time. The gas pipeline was also hit by a projectile, and an emergency situation was eliminated. So here's the effect, the question you asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u13	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u14	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give the word of a comrade after the faction of Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u15	National MP Domansky, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u16	Dear Gregory Vasilovich! I understand you told us what happened. But I have a question for you: as Minister, will you tell us whether the Ministry of Defence is complying with the requirements of the Ukrainian Armed Forces regulations for security, fire and other? And the second. There's instructions in this warehouse. An arsenal is allowed, if instructed, to have all the incendiary and smoking supplies removed from it, and then only it moves through the KP to enter the territory. Donetsk, second. As Minister, you have seen whether this is being respected by the Ministry of Defence or whether it will still cost us dearly, it is smoking on the ground, so to speak.? You got me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u17	That's right. Thank you for asking. I want to inform you that as early as November 2003, an order was issued by the President of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, together with the Ministry of Defence, to verify 36 military warehouses and bases. They were checked, served the prescriptions. And by the way, the Ministry of Emergency Situations was handed over on this very base where an extraordinary situation took place. But only 13 percent of the base commander did that, I mean, about the downfall, the other measures were not implemented. So what I saw, I want to confirm to you -- I don't know whether it's everywhere or not -- but both in Artemis and on this base, where an extraordinary situation occurred, the rules of fire safety were broken, the statutory relations that led to such an extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u18	Instead of Karnauha Rudzkowski, he has a word for questions. Who, Frost? Please, instead of Karnauha, Frost. The frost instead of Karnauha.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u19	Dear Gregory Vasilovich, a few questions. Please, what are the limits and when are the mandates from the Ministry of Defense to the Ministry of Emergency Situations in the event of such accidents transferred? That's the first question. The other one. Who do you think should do the inventory, the independent inventory of all weapons? Finally, are we ready to eliminate an accident in missile warehouses that are now loaded with liquid fuel with a nitrogen acid component? Who can carry out this mission and the danger here is enormous? And finally, I have a request for you. Now you are there to say that there are some issues that are not legally settled regarding the elimination of such accidents, or so forth. You don't have to cover it up in some way today. This expression, which is systemic in society as a whole, in the army in particular, has to be removed surgically and ruthlessly, because there can be many reasons for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, in this situation, which was in general, the area of responsibility on the base was under the Ministry of Defence, so today is defined by a legislative act. The fact that the Ministry of Emergency Situations, as well as the Ministry of Defence, was working outside this warehouse. Second, what you said is ready or not ready. Indeed, the situation is very difficult, and there are 184 objects in the country that are similar to this object, but they may contain fewer weapons in some objects. But the situation is really complicated, and the inspection we did with the Ministry of Defense in common, and now, I think it's independent, and it's both the Prime Minister and the President's job to have the Ministry of Emergency Situations conduct a fire-fighting inspection and a technical examination of two inspections -- a fire inspection by a technologist who's in the Ministry of Emergency Situations to determine what's going on there. I'd like to tell you that there are many reasons. First, here's the legacy that we've been given, because there's no funding for these measures, very little percentage, here's the discipline, everything in the complex. So we really need to take very hard measures right now at least before we put the basic order in the warehouses and bases where the weapons are stored, because there can be such incidents in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u21	Anatoly Seminoga, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u22	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u23	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u24	Turkinov, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Your Honor, we're surprised by your information. It must be Ukraine’s record when people die of explosions. It's not clear. It is also not clear in your analysis that the main culprits of this tragedy are. We have rockets coming into our homes because we don't have enough rockets. We've got missiles coming into the planes because we don't have any kind of guidance systems. Our warehouses are being blown up, so our military personnel are smoking the innocuous cigarettes. Your analysis is incomprehensible. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, perhaps here we should listen to the Secretary of Defense, whose resignation is required by our faction. Here we have to listen to our Prime Minister, which is what we do find out from these systematic inequities used by our soldiers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u25	Thank you. I'll answer you. First of all, the culprits. Today it's still going on in these days and in 2-3 days, you realize it's impossible to carry out investigation experiments, anything to call the culprits. That's the first one. As far as death is concerned. Yes, forensics has concluded that these people did not die from shells, fragments, but, I'll tell you, from a heart attack. This has to do with these events, but it has nothing to do with the direct impression of this weapon. That's why I reported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u26	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u27	I understand, but I'm a fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u28	Taras Cranville, Deputies Group Center.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u29	Dear reporter, would you please tell me if you've got the method of setting up what number of missiles, missiles really exploded, and how much inventory has been left in the warehouses to make that difference, the amount for which the warehouse was actually set on fire? That's the first one. The other one. Do you have any inventory data for other warehouses? I understand it's not a matter of your ministry, but since you're going to have to dig up those floods after that, are there any inventory data from other warehouses on the available match, the number of weapons before what's declared. And the third. Don't you have some random information from the Ministry of Defense that's going to be ready for arson for the next few months?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u30	I didn't get the third question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u31	Which in the near future the warehouse will prepare for the fire like this. How did this happen in the previous two warehouses?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u32	First question. I reported how many weapons were stored in these warehouses. Today, the warehouse is destroyed. According to previous estimates, but this is a preliminary estimate, about 900 wagons of these munitions flew outside the warehouse at an area of 314 square miles [314 sq km]. And there were 4,800 contingent wagons of ammunition in these warehouses. It's about inventory. May 15th must be an inventory of this warehouse where this extraordinary situation took place. And the 15th May Commission was to report to the Ministry of Defense on the state of affairs on this basis. But, you know, there's been an explosion, and today, practically this base is completely destroyed, and the explosions continue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u33	Plutinski, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Gregory Vasilovich! Maybe this isn't really up to you. I, let's just say, I don't think there's anyone from the Ministry of Defense here, why isn't there a minister here? Maybe he would even report it, as they say, not to you, because you're already doing it post-factum? That's one thing. And the second. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Tell me, please, how far do these missiles need to lie down, do they need to be destroyed, or are we really going to fight, and that these 2 million 400,000 tons of shells should be found today, and people would walk in fear, as they say, of God, that something might happen tomorrow? I don't want to call it a warehouse, because it might be some kind of secret, but there's this warehouse on Winniechinni, which means it's completely unprotected, there's a lot of weapons. I'd like to give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u35	As far as I know, I know that the Ministry of Defense is doing work on the disposal of ammunition that we have left behind. Because I called it 2.5 million tons, and according to experts, we need about one million. So there's a programme to be developed by 2015 and it has to be allocated in the budget to do everything they can to reduce this weapon, they say. Because it's hard work and it can go for a few years, because weapons are piled up a lot, and the cost is very, very little every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mr. Secretary, I have three questions. First of all, one of the vice-premiers called the figure three billion bracelets, the total damage that could be caused by this catastrophe. Do you think it's the second-largest disaster since Chernobyl? Second question. You called it, and many said that the reason was human. But that's a very abstract concept. You call it a disorder, and you don't think it's possible, this fire, these explosions are the product of other unfavorable actions that happened there. And the third question. How much do you think the government has to allocate immediately to eliminate the consequences of this accident as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u38	Well, first of all, according to the damage in the case, I called that figure, it's only 2.5 billion dollars in ammunition, it's one and a half million dollars in population. What you're saying is, I previously called, really, to say today, what happened there is too early, I think, because there are many different reasons, as they say, and I think the following organs, and there have been, and there are previous evaluations. That is why it is too early to say so today. The government has allocated 7 million dollars for today and 4 million dollars for now. And I don't think, and I was at the scene on May 8th, an extraordinary situation -- this is about a house where there was a five-story, three-story house, one-story house. These events that were there, I mean, leaked windows, frame inserted. Soon the authorities will take everything in order to bring order and roads and houses to a better state than they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u39	Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down, Grigory Vasilovich. Gregory Korniyovich Kruczkov is head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please. At the end of the procedure, Gregory Korniyovich will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, colleagues. Minister Grigory Vasilovich Reva objectively highlighted the situation and reported on the measures that are being taken to deal with the consequences of the disaster. As a member appointed by the President and headed by the Prime Minister of the Special Commission after visiting the area of the disaster on 8 May, I can confirm directly, and colleague Pecklusenko, who was there on 9 May, joins that the government, the ministries of emergency situations, defences, internal affairs, health care, the Attorney-General's Office, other public authorities, local authorities and self-governance structures, their officials are clearly deciding on the issues that arise, working to find out the causes of the tragedy, as quickly as possible, to bring people back to their homes. Decisions to turn citizens into action are being made expeditiously. The work of the government commission led by Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Kluev is effectively organized. Soldiers, law enforcement workers, and other authorities work loyally. An organized total state-of-the-art verification of the conservation and disposal of ammunition in all the chains of the state's military organization. A few remarks. First. I would like to ask my colleague about the immediate cause of the disaster on the basis of the culprits, etc., to limit myself to this stage of information to the special commission, returning to it after its completion. An investigation is under way. The law enforcement authorities should be given time. They're working out all the possible versions. I can't rule out what can be found enough, I'm picking a delicate word, I'm taking it into my quotes, I'm taking "interesting things," which the people's deputies, I'm convinced, will be informed, and the problem will be taken up in the complex. The other one. There was a disaster, a catastrophe with more serious consequences. This raises a perfectly clear concern in society. Finally, operational reliable information is needed. Sadly, some journalists, especially Russian TV channels and some of our emotions, have lost their objectivity. Numerous victims were reported to have been killed as a result of the explosion of ammunition in the city of Novogoddanovka, etc. But this does not correspond to the reality in which we are convinced of the place. And the right atmosphere in society is created. Hence, there is a need to work out a clear system of objective and timely information for the population in such cases. And I call on my fellow journalists not to overwhelm them without the need for passion. Always remember how much the word from the television screen weighs on the radio or in the press. Next. It is now evident that what happened under Melitopolis, and before that in the area of Artemis, is the result of a human factor. The key problem here is indeed the state of discipline, responsibility, control, demandingness in the Armed Forces and not just there. Not today nor yesterday did this problem arise. The issue of the conservation and disposal of ammunition, the safe maintenance of ammunition was dealt with in various institutions, the approval of decrees, the issuance of decrees, but radically the situation did not improve. And what we have under Melitopol could not have happened on one of the nearly three hundred bases, warehouses, arsenals, where almost 2.5 million are stored. A ton of ammunition, since many bases are still intact, ammunition is stored there under the open sky. Recycling is involved, and I'm drawing attention to this, private structures that are the least concerned about security. The Ministry of Defense needs to take a thorough look at this and establish a state order. Clearly, without adequate financial support, the problem will not be solved. According to the Ministry of Defence, it takes about 900 million people to do so. That's right. In the meantime, estimates based on government-approved projected budget expenditures for defence by 2015 are projected to target the disposal of weapons, military equipment, ammunition in today’s and the following years by 20 million. That's right. After the tragedy in Artemis, this sum is slightly increased, but it is obviously insufficient. Obviously, there will have to be substantial adjustments. The Prime Minister, at the meeting of the commission, gave appropriate instructions to the Ministry of Finance, at the same time asked us, the national deputies, to approach these issues with understanding. We also deserve the offer to transfer a piece of property released in the Armed Forces -- helicopters, etc. to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Borders. Dear colleagues, in view of the events that we are currently considering, I cannot help but draw attention to the fact that the national armed forces are now experiencing a very difficult stage in their development as a result of military reform. I repeat, the state of ammunition conservation, their disposal is only part of the acute problems in the defence field. The rights, imbalances and delays in this process, the process of reform, the lack of resolution in the legislative order of the social protection of military personnel released from the armed forces have had a negative impact on the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u41	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u42	Especially in the moral-psychological state of the officers and the generalitarians. Under such circumstances, it is difficult to expect order, and discipline can be strengthened. On April 13, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine addressed these issues. We hope that today we will receive the proper submission of the President, and tomorrow we will necessarily need to consider both the submission of the President and adopt, in the second reading, an appropriate bill as a law, thereby ending the uncertainty in this matter. In general, the situation in the field of defence needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. Such proposals were made by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u43	Yes, thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. What? For three minutes, write your motives down. The procedure, to be exact. And with motive and procedure, all together. Please sign in. On the board. Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u44	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear colleagues, for example, I learned from the report of the lead reporter that smoking is not only harmful to health, but it has caused some damage to material values. Yesterday, the S.T.B. channel made it clear about the actions of the officers after the evacuation of the civilian population from dangerous zones. And it showed what was going on in the robbery, that our soldiers, our soldiers, were going into the houses, stealing food, personal belongings, valuable things. And just according to Ukrainian custom, what they did not eat was eaten, that is, destroyed. It is. Someone has to answer for that, too, and someone has to investigate it. Is there a sense of shame in our leadership, in our ministry about this marauding, because I think it's caused the biggest damage, even more than those explosions, because that's what we have, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you not to blame the Ukrainian people. In Ukrainian customs, there is no stealing, robbing, or anything else. Let us not identify individuals or groups with the entire Ukrainian people. Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u46	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u47	Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u48	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I didn't understand why I was reporting today to the Minister of Emergency Situations. It was a disaster — let them do the work, let them eliminate the consequences, and then report back. But where are the culprits of what happened today? We need to invite the Secretary of Defense and let him know why this has been done. I have always opposed Ukraine’s disposal of nuclear weapons. And now I understand why America wanted to. If we had nuclear weapons left, we wouldn't have America. We don't have a single missile flying past the target -- they all hit the target. Prepared well, they are about to fail to control those who launch these missiles. I'm asking you to invite the Secretary of Defense here. And let him get back to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u49	Mikola Rudzkowski instead of Suska
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u50	I'm addressing the minister of honor. Mr. Secretary, you have reported that you are a representative of the Minister of Emergency Situations. Don't you think we've had an extraordinary situation in Ukraine since Marchuca was appointed Secretary of Defense? After his appointment, first in Artemis, now here, then the army in Iraq. The decision to change this situation in Ukraine should probably be taken by the government to consider the issue and ask the Prime Minister of Defence: why we have a constant explosion of warehouses. And this is not the first time. A commission for Artemis was set up. No findings made. It's the same thing. Iraq. Secretary of Defense Marchuk was standing on the Supreme Council standstand, deceiving the national MPs that our boys are going to Kuwait to perform peacekeeping operations. Now they're fighting and dying. We must, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the information has been processed. Replica, please. Peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck, peck,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I am a member of the Zaporozhye region, was the 9th directly at the scene. At this warehouse at a distance of 600 metres, where they exploded, and saw the real feat of soldiers, saw the real feat of Zaporozhye, the authorities, the medical personnel, the law enforcement authorities. How do we not see the obvious? What else do you need? Nikolai Rudzkowski asks, "What does it take to keep this from happening?".. We have to stop politics. Economic issues must be addressed! We need to work for the Supreme Council! Then there'll be fewer of those explosions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u53	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Dear National Deputies! I want to get back to your knowledge that we agreed on a consensus board and there was a decision by the State Commission to report on the state of affairs and on the measures that are being taken to eliminate the consequences of the disaster, so we can assess the event. But judging from the reaction in the session room, we're not interested in the content of the information, but we're actually interested in the fact that we're asking this question. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to emphasize that when we talk about heroism, we always have this heroism in the background of gross insurrection. First we create a problem, then we tackle it heroically. Then we're going to have to address this issue in a comprehensive way, but according to the work of the State Commission. I'd like to ask our chairman in this regard, which is headed by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, to keep this issue under control and prepare it for an exhaustive review with a report from the government, from the Ministry of Defence, and from the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Maybe it's from district management. If we have no objection to such a proposal, we have concluded our consideration of the information. You don't? Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the calendar plan for the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is another day of the Ukrainian government meeting this morning. By a decree of 4 March this year, the Supreme Council set out its theme "To meet the requirements of legislation on the promotion of agro-industrial production and the priority of rural development in Ukraine in 2004 and to develop effective mechanisms for their development in the future. The government's spokesman is the minister of agrarian politics. The following regulations are proposed: the Cabinet of Ministers' information on this subject - up to 20 minutes, the answers to the letter, the oral questions of Ukrainian MPs - 30 minutes, the co-report of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations - up to 15 minutes and the discussion before the end of the morning session. To give us the opportunity to speak out as many deputies as possible, let's make sure we don't take a break at 12 o'clock, because then we'll have exactly 3 hours to deal with this issue, if you don't mind. Out of procedure, please, Assadchev. And the minister's closing word is up to 10 minutes, and the committee's closing word, if necessary, is up to five minutes. This is the order that is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u54	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your word. I would ask you to keep us informed, because somehow we have an unusual agenda. We haven't had an order of the morning, the evening. Is there going to be an evening meeting tonight? Let me know what tomorrow is. They say tomorrow will be a full day of plenary, and Thursday will be transferred. Because not all deputies know how the Conciliation Council has been defined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! We voted in favour of moving the plenary week in the previous plenary session. So we have a full - time workday today. There'll be a morning and evening session, tomorrow we'll also be working full-time, Thursday we'll be working for lunch, we'll be meeting in the morning, and at 15 hours we'll be hearing Parliamentary hearings about the problem of higher education in Ukraine. On Friday we work until 14 o’clock. Here's the schedule. Manchulenko, please, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u56	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that in the near future we hear information from the Minister of Internal Affairs, the heads of the Security Service, the Attorney General that they have investigated Mukachevi, who have concluded that the bandits are responsible, together with the authorities and law enforcement agencies who have committed crimes in the elections of Mayor Mukachevo. And the second problem that we insist on is its consideration. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the decree to hold in April months, at the suggestion of the faction "Our Ukraine", parliamentary hearings on the state of the Ukrainian armed forces. As we can see, these hearings have somehow not taken place and have tragic consequences in the Zaporozhye region. When these hearings are held, we will deal with all the problems in the armed forces of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u57	Dear National Deputies! I'm informing you that we haven't had Government Day for whatever reason. And we periodically create a problem, we block it, and then we start working heroically. So this is the fault of the entire Supreme Council, primarily the leadership of the Supreme Council. It's about Mukachev. I've informed you, maybe not everyone has heard, and once again, I want to say that at 1:00, I'm going to have a meeting with the leaders of the power structures. At 1:20 a.m., a meeting will take place with the heads of the task force, and we agreed that we would listen to the information in order to be able to consider this matter tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. without delay in order to save time. So I'm telling you, let's stick to the schedule. We have a scheduled session that includes 150 questions. But you, your respectable colleagues, are drowning, and you are not allowing yourself to consider these questions. I mean, either we focus on small things or we fail to fulfill our obligations. Yes, let's move on to Government Day. Please, Slauta, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, has the floor to provide information on compliance with the requirements of legislation regarding the promotion of agro-industrial production and the priority of rural development in Ukraine in 2004 and the formation of effective mechanisms, their development in the future, for up to 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and members of the government. At the beginning of my speech on behalf of all agrarians, I would like to thank you for addressing this extremely important issue in the higher legislative body of Ukraine, precisely in terms of compliance with the requirements of legislation on the agricultural sphere. We are already adopting good and fairly specific legislation, but a large number of bills have not been adopted by now. Unfortunately, this does not provide a comprehensive solution to the problems of the development of the APC and the social sphere of the village. Hence, there is a proper and certain lack of confidence in State agrarian policies and measures that are being taken. As a result, agrarian reforms have not yet been filled with economic meaning, and State support is insufficient and non-systemic. For justice, it must be emphasized that only over the last two years have there been positive developments in the consolidation of government and the Supreme Council's efforts to expand state support for the agro-industry complex, to improve its mechanisms, and to respond better to the direction of budgetary financing with the rules of the world trade organisation, etc. In particular, measures taken by the government during the current marketing year allowed for the stabilization of the situation in the grain market, which was not a bad basis for crop cultivation in 2004. The government is taking additional measures to stabilize the grain market, and this year it is envisaged to buy directly from farmers into the state reserve, to make collateral transactions, and to purchase about 3 million tons of food grain for regional needs. This will be a crucial prerequisite for price stability in this market. One important feature of State support is the introduction of industry tax. Thanks to a fixed agricultural tax and special regimes, taxing added value since 1999 is a mediocre state support of up to 3.5 billion dollars a year. I will underline that it is 1.7 times higher than the total expenditure of the State budget for 2004 to finance the needs of the APC, including agrarian science and education. Today’s tax system has been forced and temporary and has been defined as a specific form of agricultural support. I'm going to point out that before the introduction, the rate of tax pay was only 35-40 percent. At the time, the debt to the budget was above 7 billion dollars, to the Pension Fund — 2 billion. As a result, the economy’s finances were completely balanced, and the economy’s bankruptcy in general and its related processing sectors were generally preconceived. And that, as you can see, posed an economic threat to the state. During this mode of taxation, the annual amount of taxes paid by APC companies increased by 2 billion or one-and-a-half dollars compared to 1999, including the fixed agricultural tax amount of 2.2 times. This is evidence of an increase in the economic activity of agriculture, agrarian markets in general. Thanks to State support at this stage, there has been a substantial increase in income from the budget, improved tax discipline, increased sales costs for farmers, and increased incentives for livestock production and manufacturing, which are very important. At the same time, the government believes that the current tax system requires improvements. For this purpose, appropriate bills have been prepared, and I will stop later. The next important thrust of State support is to finance the needs of agro-industrial production at the expense of the State budget. The government is working to ensure the priorities of agriculture, such as increasing the budget for the financing of targeted state development programmes. Yes, in 2004, total expenditure from the State Budget increased by 2.1 times compared to 2001, including for the financing of targeted agricultural programmes by 2 and a half. Agrarian development is known to be largely dependent on the purchasing power of the population. Agro-industrial production does social work to an extent, is at the beginning of a chain of social production and is a multiplier for the development of other sectors of the economy, such as trade, chemical industry, agriculture, transport, construction, finance and credit, etc. And the main thing is that agriculture makes the village network work, which is the source of our national traditions, culture, mentality. Unfortunately, the limited capacity of the State budget, and you understand this, is not able to provide sufficient support for agro-industry production at the level of the developed countries in which it tends to fluctuate between 25 and 40 percent to the cost of production. But today the necessary support for the competitiveness of domestic agriculture is becoming particularly relevant, as Ukraine is liberalizing its trade policy according to international requirements, increasingly integrating itself into the world food market. Such a situation requires the introduction of modern, internationally tested state-support mechanisms. In most cases, limited resources from the State budget are allocated to the implementation of the listed and legislatively defined programs, unfortunately, only 35 - 50 percent of the cost of development is needed. This is primarily the case with the financing of government programs for radical land improvement, agrochemical land transportation, pest and disease control, anti-epizootic measures, and others. Despite the government’s efforts for these same reasons, it has also not yet been possible to initiate funding of legislation - based programmes to prevent and eliminate large cattle from disease - related diseases. Infections in Ukraine. The development of animal protection products based on modern technology, the development of fish farming, the construction of fishing complex vessels, the development of hydrolysis, and some others. To this day, they have strategic significance. For the introduction of Ukraine to international organizations and generally refer to this, and you know it, to the so-called "green box," that is, allowed directions of state support defined by the WTO rules. Taking into account the situation and the increasing capacity of the State budget in recent years, the government will propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the coming years to significantly increase the budget support for agro-industrial production. More than once in the walls of the Supreme Council, it has been stated that 2005 should become a year of priority funding for the APC. Moreover, in our view, support should be provided at least at the level of the neighbouring countries. The World Bank estimates that the level of state support in Ukraine among countries with economies in transition is, unfortunately, the lowest. It is less than 0.6 percent of GDP, while in Romania 5, in neighbouring countries about 3 percent. It is enough to say that nearly half of the EU’s budget is spent on supporting the agricultural sector. In such circumstances it is clear that the Ukrainian agricultural sector is difficult to count on competitiveness in the world market. The international financial assistance provided under inter-governmental, international agreements, most of which are ratified by the Supreme Council, is increasingly important to the people's national MPs, the market transformations in the agricultural sector of our country. Since the following year, it is planned to launch a World Bank program to finance the development of a village worth $250 million. It covers important areas of infrastructure development, financial security, direct lending of farmers, new jobs in the countryside, and so on. You are asked to have a large, distinguished national MP support the program. Thanks to international aid, 1.8 million State acts will be issued on earth. In addition, I recall that the World Bank’s loan of nearly $200 million is available to accelerate land reform. Projects from the United Nations have also provided significant help in developed agrarian policies. A recent twenty-fourth conference of the European countries, members of the international food organisation FAUT(?where Ukraine’s agricultural policy was presented as a full participant. The ways of cooperation were clarified, including the provision of technical assistance to the State on improving the quality of production, information, the introduction of technologies from non - traditional forms of energy, the management of natural phenomena, and so forth. Technical assistance from the European Union through programmes and(?) provision is made for the establishment of warehouse certificates, support for business development, credit unions and rural counselling. Agrarians also receive considerable technical assistance directly from governments in some countries. In doing so, it should be noted that international technical assistance is a signal and a key prerequisite for the activation of investment activities in the regions. It has to be said that not all regions use it properly. In general, it must be acknowledged that the effectiveness of international aid in many cases is still low; it is not always clearly perceived in society. So the relevant authorities at the centre in the regions need to be more thoroughly scrutinized about all directions of international aid, because these are not small resources, as we can see. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy improves relations with various projects by expanding their ongoing consultations. Reports, expert evaluations, scientific and practical conferences initiated the development of regional investment programmes in the APC, etc. Honourable National MPs, agro-industrial production is a major part of the economy of Ukraine. It is estimated that the internal food market is saturated with domestic products by more than 90 percent. Based on scientifically sound consumption standards, the annual capacity of the food market is 155 billion. That's right. The actual consumption over the past year was only 92 billion. Or 60 percent. This first shows the low level of purchasing capacity of the population and, secondly, its increase in significant unused production reserves, both in agriculture and in the manufacturing and food industries. An important factor in the development of the agricultural sector is the growth of export potential, why the government pays great attention. Agriculture exports amounted to 3 billion. United States dollars. So this national economy sector has had a major impact in recent years on the macroeconomic performance of the state, inflation processes, the formation of a balance of payments in general on Ukraine's national security. Thus, the agricultural sector objectively requires adequate state support, directed primarily to support its competitiveness and to address the social problems in the countryside. As a result of the calculations on Ukraine’s entry into WTO, the amount of total state support should be at least 10 percent of the total budget expenditure. Dear National Deputies! The government is working actively today to improve state agrarian politics, as well as to address social problems in the countryside. A draft law on the basic principles of State agrarian policy for the period to 2015 has recently been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Preparatory Committee for Third Reading, which is an extremely important, so-called basic draft of the Ukrainian law on State financial and budgetary support for the agro-industry sector. This law is designed to determine the financing arrangements for agro-industry entities at the expense of the State budget and local budgets, the rules for State support for minimum purchase prices for individual strategic agricultural products, the mechanisms for regulating the agricultural market and the creation of its infrastructure accordingly, and lays down rules for supporting risk insurance and credit, for financing the construction of social facilities in rural areas. It also foresees the introduction of transparent mechanisms for the budget support of farmers for 1 hectare of crops and 1 head of farm animals. The creation of a state agency with special status, which will perform the functions of government regulation of the agricultural market, determines the list of products to which commercial and financial interventions are extended, the order in which minimum prices are determined. This is an extremely important law for the agricultural sector, which is desirable in the current session of the Supreme Council. This will allow us to take its requirements into account in the formulation of the 2005 State Budget, which is very and very important. In addition, draft legislation is being prepared today, for which purpose. on improving agricultural taxation. This applies, first of all, to the introduction of a special tax regime in agriculture and forestry on 1 January 2005. In particular, it is suggested that the initial VAT should not be reimbursed, but that the rate should be set at 10 percent, leaving it at the disposal of the taxpayer. This mode is based on the principle of volunteering. But for it to be implemented in the state budget, it is necessary to provide annual funding for subsidies to agricultural producers, based on the actual amounts of money left to producers under the current VAT tax regime. It is also proposed to amend the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance and Fixed Agricultural Tax Act by introducing a special reduction in tariffs, compulsory government pension insurance of 20 per cent from an approved tariff at the beginning of the year, with an annual increase to the current level of 32 per cent, and the introduction of appropriate compensation for losses to the Pension Fund at the expense of the State budget. In doing so, it is proposed to improve the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Tax on the Step-by-step Restoration of Congregations for the Universally Compulsory State Social Insurance in the event of unemployment and the factors causing the loss of employment. Taking into account the current situation in the APC, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2004 by increasing the expenditure on development of the sector at the expense of the general government budget fund by 1.6 billion dollars. These costs are proposed to target mortgage and intervention operations with grain, financial support for the production of animal production, as well as companies in special climatic conditions, partial compensation for the cost of complex agricultural production techniques, and so on. Nearly half of the expenditure increases are proposed to compensate farm subjects for the costs incurred in 1999 - 2002 for the construction of sociocultural objects in rural areas. That's the problem you know. Dear National Deputies! A separate conversation requires solving social problems in the countryside. I left the issue with the report to the end to sharpen the attention of the national deputies. See for yourself, the economic conditions for the functioning of the agrarian sector do not allow for an increase in the wages of workers who are less than twice the average of other industries, compared to three. And this gap continues to increase. The problems of the modest size of rural pensions are rising accordingly. It's a closed circuit that needs to be broken. The rural environment’s multiple backlog in the availability of basic life - sustaining factors — medical, household, commercial, transportation, education, culture, and so forth. Community services in the countryside are virtually failing to develop. Rural unemployment is the highest of all spheres of activity and continues to grow. Generally speaking, respected colleagues, failing to comply with the requirements of legislation regarding support for social development, the Institute for Agricultural Economics accounts for 5.5 billion dollars during 1996 and 2003. Perhaps, in large numbers, this is the result of the village’s treatment of the residual principle of budgetary financing for its needs. There's nothing to talk about as a matter of priority. Until this syndrome is overcome by politicians, government officials, managers of all levels, these problems cannot be removed from the dead. Moreover, the Budget Code does not clearly define the role of local self - government, the financing of the social sphere of the village, the rights and duties, and the authority of local authorities on these matters. It's a sad thing to say, but the real social situation in the country makes it hard to tell the truth. It also requires that state decisions be taken to resolve the problem. In doing so, I will point out that appropriate legislation is in place to address these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u59	Victor Andryovich, how much time do you need? 20 seconds. Well, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, it should be emphasized that the government is planning to start compensating for the cost of construction of socio-sphere objects to farmers in previous years since 2005, and if changes are made to the 2004 State Budget, this work can also be started in the current one. To conclude, the agricultural sector of Ukraine is able to significantly increase the volume and production and export of products. I'm sure in the future this will return to the state by the overall growth of the national economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u61	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, 30 minutes will have the minister's answer to the questions. The first question will be written, then lips. So please sign up for the questions. And you get ready to answer them. Please explain. Please, Victor Andryovich, in writing. And then Assadchev's lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u62	From the faction of "Our Ukraine", the national MP Ivan Fedorovich Tomic asked three questions that I would answer. During recent years, the drinking weight of sunflowers in the structure of sown areas has exceeded scientifically sound standards. In this case, how should public policy be implemented in the field of rational use and protection of agricultural land? Unfortunately, practice has shown, Sir John Fedorovich, that in view of the structure of the sown areas of the Ministry and the authorities should not be released. But what I'm going to say is that this problem happened in 2003, as you know, when 60 percent of the winter grains died, something had to be planted. True, perhaps we could go to other cultures that are traditionally late for grain. Thus, the Ministry, together with the areas this year, has worked hard on the structure of the soybeans, where there is a significant increase in corn crops. The sunflower program is optimally defined in the structure. It's 2.5 million hectares. This year in the seedling program 2.5 million is going to be optimally sown in the structure of the sown areas. What the government specifically plans to do is to come out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u63	Victor Andryovich, please wait. You answered one question, now it's a question of the place. Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u64	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I have a lot of questions for you, too, but I can see that the Chief will only give you one chance to answer. But as a preamble, I would like to remind you that according to the graphs you showed, you got in 2003, when your government came in, an increase in agricultural financing almost three times in comparison, let's say, in 2001. But it was in your government that the great grain crisis itself was shattered, compared with all the governments that were before you. That would be interesting for you to analyze the consequences. You've got three times as much money and you've caused a crisis. And I have a second question. The VAT you're talking about, on agricultural production, you voted, and you personally, and your agrarian faction voted in favour of introducing this VAT. I would like to know the consequences. And the third. You know, there's a question in society right now that's going to raise the price of bread again, because Ukraine won't live to see a new crop.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u65	Valerius Mikhailovich, for three questions, he will answer for 10 minutes. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u66	I'd like to make sure you're okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again, don't forget that there's more than one national MP in the session room. I'm asking you one question. You want to ask it for a minute, because it's your rule, but only one question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u68	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Assadchev. As far as VAT is concerned. I've already said in the report: that's why the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, and most of them have supported this position this year. That's 2 billion, so let's say, indirect financial flows to farmers. And that worked very well for the agrarians. I have no information that before the new crop there will be an increase in the price of bread. This situation and information from the regions, and we're monitoring and tracking, I don't have that kind of information. On the contrary, there is information from the regions that the prices of bread and bread - making products to the new crop will be stable and durable. And the government is said to have its hand on the pulse. So, what? There was a tragedy for the state that year. I've already told you that the winter wedge, which is 60 percent -- in fact, the bread -- wasn't sown during the winter period, so the situation that occurred in that year or in this marketing, nevertheless, the government worked, managed to stabilize this situation, and I don't think that's where you see the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u69	Please have a written question. Prepare Korsakov. Letters, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u70	Letters, Mr. Tomic: "What exactly does the government plan to do to come out of the agrarian sector crisis which. Is there a projected investment in the development of Ukraine's agriculture of between 8 billion and 9 billion dollars, which is scientifically based on the needs of normal industry? Well, in order to get the agrarian sector out of the crisis, we need, and it's a good thing that we're being supported by a committee that's profiled, agrarian, a series of legislative acts. This is also the law on the basic principles that are laid down in the Supreme Council. A very important, fundamental, particularly important is the basic bill, as we call it. We need to finish reforming land and property relations, protecting the rights of owners and tenants, and creating financial and credit mechanisms. And it is important to establish agricultural support standards at least 3 percent of GDP or 10 percent of expenditure in the state budget. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy is making these proposals to the government and is going to submit 8 to 9 billion dollars to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u71	Please, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u72	Viktor Andryovich, in the village today, there is an urgent need for a specialist in agriculture, a skilled workforce. How does the Cabinet of Ministers plan to improve this situation, and what are the prospects for raising wages in the agricultural sector and increasing its share in gross agricultural expenditure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u73	Thank you. It is in this bill, which has been introduced to the Supreme Council, the basic principles, that there is a unit that touches the human resources in the country. There was a large outflow, now 19 percent of only higher education professionals remain in the village. Good experts, you know, in this situation, you've moved away from the agrarian sector. That's why we write the "long forgotten old" too. It's both housing, and wages, and loans that are available for construction in the village. These will be set forth in this law, the Basic Principles of Agrarian Politics Act 2015. The problem remains that issue, and the President and the Prime Minister are putting this issue on the line. Although agreements are signed with trade unions, trade unions have signed agreements to ensure that the share of wages and expenses is 30 percent, unfortunately, 13 - 15. This is a problem for everyone. Now there's a group of experts in the Ministry that's working on some kind of proposal. There may be some administrative milestones involved. Production growth should be adequate to increase wages at cost. That's what the Ministry cares about. And we need to get this problem out of the way in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u74	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u75	"What are the causes of the damage to state-owned enterprises in the agricultural sector of the economy? What are the possible ways to heal state-owned enterprises and their future destiny?" This is one of the main problems. We don't have that many state enterprises, but by 2003, they had caused 48 million losses. A commission headed by the prime minister’s deputy is also for the rehabilitation of these state - owned enterprises. And we're going to be taking steps to improve the organizational structure of governance in the near future, we're going to have to take a look at it if it's possible where it's real, and the business that can become, they say, at the feet to make financial support for strategically important products. Let's see. We will look at questions related to the state price regulation of basic agricultural products. Well, let's look at those enterprises and figure out which might not be of such importance to the state, and we're going to rent them and we're going to give them up for privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u76	Please, instead of Sunshine, Omelyan Nikonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u77	Victor Andriyovich, in 1996, the Supreme Council passed a land tax decree to return to the land. But practically to this day these costs are not going back to the ground, and this is an improvement in fertility, it's a melioration, it's chemistry and other measures that need to be done on earth. And there's still a little question. This is a very difficult day for animals in the countryside. And animalry for Ukraine is a priority. But the 200 million that are allocated to the selection of plants and animals, I think it's too little. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u78	Well, first of all, according to animal production, it's only been two years now that the 2003 budget and 2004 budget has laid some groundwork. But it's very, very little support, and it's precisely in order to support animal welfare and change in the 2004 budget that we put 200 million dollars into the 2005 draft budget, taking into account that we should not lose the whole of the animal industry and this industry, it's said, to restore both the livestock and the productivity of the animals and the population in the agricultural sector should be calculated, and it's said that the number 2.3 is justified. 2.5 billion dollars, which is what we're working on right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u79	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u80	About the pay on the ground. You know, when the land pay should go to a major improvement of the land, as farmers say, all of them are relieved, they say, "died." But for four years this rule was somehow removed from legislation, and now a group of deputies, including from our faction, Mr. Borgich, Kalinczuk is making proposals to return to this standard. And I asked, if possible, to maintain this standard. Head of the Agrarian Party of the Ukraine Gladys. The Ukrainian Act on the Priority of Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the People's Farms provided in article 6 to 2000 for the implementation of State programmes on gasification, water supply, electricity, the construction of roads in rural areas, as well as the resurgence of labour-depleted, declining rural settlements. So what are these programs running? Unfortunately, you know, these rules about the priority of social development in the village and the agro-industrial complex didn't work out, unfortunately. At that stage in 2000, it was likely that it was early to put those tasks to completion of the gasification, water supply, and rural electricity programs. Above all, the basic positions were unendurable. There needed to be financed as this law provided an opportunity, at least one percent of the GDP in Ukraine. In addition, it stated that at least 5 to 10 percent of state-owned cappuccinos should be used for the construction of non-productive objects in rural areas, as provided for in the 6th article. That's why the law didn't work. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy is now working and developing, and the National Social Development Programme is almost completed by 2011. There will be written and written specific: and financial assistance, support. Such specific volumes will be adequate to the budget next year and subsequent budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u81	Please, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u82	Dear Victor Andryovich, you are very professionally responsible for the organization of the Ministry's work, which impresses all agrarians, all who are in pain for the development of agriculture, which is essentially the most pervasive but stabilizing sector of the national economy. So you'll agree that, to a large extent today, it can be said that the funds allocated from the State Budget to compensate for the value of the loans would have to be transferred to the financial support status of the producers of fertilizers and support for commercial banks, not to the support of the village. [[And that's almost half a billion bucks.]] And that's why I have a question for you. Do you not think that the State’s exit to the domestic market for seed purchases at mortgage prices will make it more difficult for agricultural enterprises, farmers growing grain crops? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Yes, this compensation program, it was said to have tortured me as both the minister and my colleagues. Be in a state of war with the Ministry of Industrial Policy for three months, especially with companies that release minabratives. That's terrible. So we need to rebuild, and we're going to make these proposals. You already tried everyone, the Supreme Council last year, giving 360 million to support the winter wheat by one hectare. These funds immediately allowed in December to purchase 100,000 tons of mineral fertilizers that were stocked and used in the spring of this year. Only the market conditions that the market price's downgraded, you need to help the manufacturer specifically, he has to buy a minibar there. This program is bad, and we're going to change it. And secondly, mortgage prices. The collateral prices and the mechanisms that we're working on, that's the problem with harvesting, well, one and a half million tons of grain at once. There are manufacturers who haven't taken credit, they've borrowed some money, they're going to knock down the price, they're going to be right the same day from the start and they're going to have 300 dollars per tonne of third-class grain. So it's going to be a price collapse. So and because of the mortgage price process, if it works, we'll be able to pull about half a million tons of grain out of the first seed, yes, plus that we're going to buy a million tons into the reserve, and in the first place, we're going to get 1.6 million to the crop areas this year. Therefore, in large numbers, the mortgage prices have not worked for another year. And we're going to ask just before we change to the budget by 2004, we have to cover. This is a financial problem. And for once, this position will work, and then some practical analysis will be done, whether it is alive or not. Therefore, 200 million, honourable national MPs, support us to adopt this important weight at least this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u84	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u85	An article on rural development is available in cases where the construction of the listed objects is done at the expense of its own owners, and the costs incurred are reimbursed from the National Budget of Ukraine, the local budgets. For 1995-2002 alone, operators have not recovered more than 726 million dollars. When will these costs be reimbursed to the operators they have spent on building social facilities? Dear friends, once again, because the budget did not have four years, the standard fell out. The government is initiating this program to be restored in 2005. To date, we have documented what is on our hands. There are 726 million that need to be compensated. And it's potentially 1.2-1.4 billion dollars. That's why we're writing it down, and the government is making this proposal for the 2005 budget. But in the draft regulation, we're writing down a rule that is important before the 2004 budget changes, even though some of the 726 million have already begun to compensate this year. I ask the honourable national deputies to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u86	Honorary colleagues, according to the government’s Day, answer the written questions posed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers. So first of all, I'm asking the people's deputies not to wear them to the rostrum, but you, Victor Andryovich, to ignore them. Answer only what was given in advance. Please, Steak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Noshchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u88	Please, noschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u89	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 deaf constituency, Hard Ukraine. Dear Victor Andryovich, as you come to terms with budget usage, you've become more and more. That's the support of the last member of the Kaletnik. The question is. You talked more about the development of the industry, although little has been said about private agriculture, farming, although the left-hand side of production will soon surpass all others. And who will be responsible for the social sphere. Whether it was a matter of determining the responsible authority of the government. A higher government authority, for the development of trade, medicine, culture, education and so on, because you don't come to a settlement where there's no legal person? First question. The other one. Not a word about the priority development of territories. And the third. State funds are largely supported by traders, not producers. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u90	Please don't give up a dozen questions again, because you won't get all the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u91	I'm from the last one. Thank you for asking. And it's just this year that we're going to go around all the traders, the middlemen, and we're doing a lot, and 90 percent of the programs, so that the costs go directly to the producer. We're going around the Association of Peasants, the Sadwinprom concert, we're going to go around, that's a lot of associations that went through these costs, and then when they bought the resources, they gave these resources to the producers. That's exactly where we're going to put order and that's how we're going to do it. But they're compensatory. So where's the compensation for the same minibars? There's no need for traders. Or where there's some kind of fuel purchase memorandum for us, let's say. As long as the trader works, well, there's a clear trace of these issues. What's affecting the social sphere. Now the consumption of the function is yes, a little bit everybody is responding. And the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, although it's already said that it's not an order, it's Minekonomics, Minpraci, Minosvets, so now we're still studying questions. I'm afraid to make that sound, but maybe the Ministry of Agrarian Politics should be the main, let's say, singer in that sense. We are now working on serious material with the calculation to bring it to the government to show and to make sure that someone else is responsible for these questions. Well, Karal. I mean, we have to go back to what happened. And the Ministry of Agrarian Policy has been tracking all the programs and finances that were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u92	Yes, please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u93	National MP Simonenko. In accordance with the decree of the President of Ukraine, the rural radospas are eliminated, the land is destroyed, the remains of the technicians and the basic funds are divided, and the social objects left behind are not financed, stolen, destroyed. What specific measures are being taken by the government to preserve and develop socio-cultural objects, and when will the government grant the Supreme Council a bill to compensate operators for the cost of building social infrastructure? Well, on that question, I've already answered the second part. Answered. Not the first part: To complete the process of transferring social objects from agricultural producers. But there's a big brake we need to take off, they say. Well, first of all, healthy weariness, amortization, and there's no salt to bring them to a condition to pass - once. It's very unfortunate that you and I have not passed a law here that would remove this nonsensical tax on the transfer of social objects to the territorial communities -- it's nonsense, it's very damaging. I think the people's deputies will be here soon. It's a law, and we have to accept it, and it's going to remove a problem. Thus, as soon as possible, 30 percent of the objects will have to be transferred to the local community, and territorial communities will have to be provided with financial resources to preserve these objects, so that they can feel normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u94	Please, from the question point. Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u95	Since I am speaking, please give the floor to Stanislav Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u96	Please, Nikolaynko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u97	Dear Victor Andriyovich! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. You're an experienced reptilian. I have some questions for you. I've just come from Hersonian, and I'd like you to pay attention, and I have a request for this, for a problem. The fact that there is now a terrible threat to the south of Ukraine is locust fever. Well, the people say locusts. If we don't now for a week or two work intensively with aviation and government forces at the Minagroprom level, the Ministry of Environmental Security and so on, we can completely lose that little crop that, thank God, after the rains, has improved, and there's going to be a huge disaster. I'm asking you to pay attention to this. And the second is drinking water. Victor Andryovich, you're from Donetsk, you know, there are no wells in the south of Ukraine. If we pay for a kilowatt of electricity for 30 copies of drinking water, the whole south of Ukraine will be decomposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u98	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Well, we're investigating, and in the winter we've been tracking what's being done in the earth with locusts, so these rainfalls that have been through in the South, some percent of what could have been, have just died: there are eggs, and those larvae that were first reborn. A commission of experts just came back from there -- about 40,000 to 50,000 hectares -- is a very, very special area where this fire can be set on fire. But there's tracking and there's other territory, there's resources to protect, there's funds, there's services that work in this position. And we're here, they say, investigating the situation. Yeah, by the way, 1,200 villages with imported water in the same Donetsk region is a very big problem. And in the social program, and by 2011, it's going to be the water supply that's going to take on a large, left-hand share of the capital investment. We're going to have to go back to this position to take this problem down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u99	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u100	People's MP Sklar. "The Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 18 February 2004 approves the use of the funds provided for in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2004 to provide financial support to agri-industrial enterprises, short- and long-term loans, which provide for extremely hard, only individual producers with a requirement for partial repayment of interest on loans. How does the specified loan-pending mechanism work, and how many businesses have taken part here, and whether the government is planning to improve the loan-pending mechanism. Yes, we're going to improve this basic task and ministries so that we can access as many manufacturers as possible. According to the analysis in that year, 14,000 companies that touched and had credits, but we listened very much to the position of the National Bank and what the banks said. Because 2003 is said to have been a very hard year for only 88 percent of the loans taken in 2003. And what kind of memorandum we didn't write there, but still a lot of warnings not on our side, we're standing in the position of the producers to get them involved in the loans. There's been a lot of warnings from banks. But so far, we've taken roughly the same amount of credit. If 815 million dollars in taxes were taken that year, this year, it's already under a billion dollars. And the main thing is the long-awaited mechanism that you, the distinguished national MPs, have set up, is to borrow long-term loans. Such loans have already been granted under 30 million, the main means of production: access to technology and basic means of production. So this mechanism will be improved by taking into account so that most of the producers can take credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u101	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u102	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Victor Andryovich, I'm going to show you my respect both as a politician and as a professional, and I want to ask you three questions, but I ask you to answer them for a minute. First. Do you realize that we are not ready for the private property institution since January 1, 2005. And if we go to unprepared reform one more time, we'll get what's behind you in the pictures, but already. We'll never be able to lift it. If you understand that, what will you do as a minister? The other one. When we finally deal with the social sphere and budget it, because you spoke for spirituality, you said that tradition, mentality. And if there is no appropriate social sphere today, which is angry and there is no one to finance it, and the budget does not pay any attention to it, the village and the Ukrainian people will have no prospects. And the third. Do you support the idea that the next year should be declared a year in the village and the budget should guide all its finances to really show that we are an agrarian state and the village is being cared for with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich. At the 50th anniversary of the census in Kazakhstan, when they went out in the towers and I was a representative there, Nazarbayev probably did this in front of delegations from other countries: "Well, tell me, what else haven't we done in the legislative plan for the village? [[Vice Prime Minister in the village, there, tire minister]] The Land Capitalization Act?" - "Yes, in mid-December they did, writing about these problems in Ukraine." - "The risk scare, what's important, did we do it?" - "Yes, December 25 is exactly signed, risk insurance for those sitting in the alleys." So the very painful question is the first thing you said. I'm out of politics and don't buy or sell the land. I'm for what's going on under the table, and what we have now is 4.5 million acres of land can be nothing. The pensioners have 30 percent that they don't have. No heir, no. When a person dies, he simply leaves these hectares on his own. We have to figure it out. And the second. If we have access to credit and reduced financial support, then let the land itself have some value, some price, to be able to use the mortgage. To come to the bank and take some credit in a more or less normal state. So by the end of this year, we're giving a number of such bills, if your honor, national MPs, this is also about the land market, about land registration, about land cadastre. If we're in the complex, maybe we should take a step, take a second. That's the first one. I'm behind the budget, supporting what you've formulated with two hands. Social sphere and technology. We need to allocate real money and move it from the dead spot. And the third. And I support 2005 being the year of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u104	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. Have a seat, please. I think we should all thank the minister for the clear and comprehensive answers to the questions asked. That's the first one. And the second. Let us note the undeniable fact that the Supreme Council is directing its best personnel to the Cabinet of Ministers, as the report showed. Yes, please report to the Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tomic Ivan Fedorovich. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the government, national deputies, distinguished voters! First of all, let us express our deep gratitude to the Ukrainian peasant, who vividly demonstrates the qualities of workmanship, self - devotion, love for the earth in today’s unforgivable conditions. In all respects, the rural situation is unabated: unemployment, moneylessness, and the countryside are desolated. The productive, human and socio-cultural potential that has been acquired over the years is being destroyed, and to a large extent it has already been destroyed. With full awareness of the State's adverse consequences of the deep socio-economic crisis, the food and economic security of Ukraine, there is still no evidence to date. While there is no denying that there has been no attempt on the part of the legislative and executive branches to remove the agrarian sphere from the crisis, above all at the legislative level. Only at the previous session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 73 bills adopted by the Supreme Council of 6 have been discussed by the Committee, and since the beginning of the convening of 31st From the initiative of the Chief of the Supreme Council, Parliament held separate days for which the committee brought bills to the national parliaments, in line with the government and the Minagropolitics. The growth in the number of bills adopted, both in the Committee and in the Supreme Council, is evidence of efforts to stop the negative socio-economic processes in the countryside. By the number of bills passed, we went to the leaders, both in the middle European countries and in the SND countries. However, it turns out that the number of legislative acts is not a decisive indicator. One of the main causes of our troubles is that the vast majority of agrarian laws are not being implemented, especially in part of their financial security, which is known to be the main factor in their activities. A red-spoken illustration can be found in the Law on the Priority of Social Development of the Village and the Agro-industry Complex in the People's Farms, Article 5 of the Act provides for a standard for channelling central government spending in the amount of 1 per cent of GDP to strengthen the material and technical base of the village's social sphere. However, this requirement has been ignored all past years. What does the chart show? So over the last few years, it's been set aside, think about it, a total of 92.5 million dollars against the required legal provisions of 14 billion or 0.7 percent. As a result of this state policy in addressing rural development, nearly 2,000 people today have no schools. Of these, 90 percent live on more than 50 school - age children. More than 1.2 thousand villages with a population of nearly a million use imported water. Today, this was the subject. There are no health facilities for 315 villages with a population of more than 500. Not every Ukrainian peasant gets an average salary equivalent to one U.S. dollar a day at the best in the world of black lands. These and other factors give rise to an extremely complex demographic situation in rural areas. It is noteworthy that nearly 90 percent of villages in the last five years are more likely to be born. And in one tenth of the time, no child was born. The same level of implementation of laws aimed at State support for agricultural production, its profitability. Among them is the Rural Development Promotion Act 2001-2004 on the share of the State Budget for Rural Development financing, which should be at least 5 per cent; the Crop Insurance Act; and the grain and grain market, where the problems of the Tinning of the Grain Market have become particularly acute. Reserve, mortgage, intervention and regional purchases of grain are not carried out in accordance with the law and the President's decree of 29 June 2000 on urgent measures to stimulate the production and development of the grain market is not implemented. As a result, last year’s balance in the market led to a significant increase in the price of bread and threatened the country’s food security, its import dependency on food wheat. Failure to implement a law to stimulate the development of domestic machinery for an agro-industry complex, which provides for the annual allocation of one percent of the total government budget expenditure, has led to a critical threshold for the technical security of agriculture. Today, more than 90 percent of the available technology in agricultural enterprises have worked out their depreciation period. Almost entirely ignores the implementation of previous year’s laws on farming, on personal farming. Although almost two thirds of agricultural production and more than 2.5 million agricultural production are now concentrated in the private sector. Workplaces. The government has not been able to develop a national programme in accordance with the laws. It should be noted that a category of producers is often ignored even when it comes to participating in government budget programs. There are assurances, and there is, in fact, a growing number of government programs, but they remain low-efficiency and far from transparent. As in general, direct support for agricultural production amounts to less than 500 million this year. A bracelet that goes for direct support. As an example of the inefficient use of budget funds, this year, a 140 million - million - dollar program can be cited. A bracelet aimed at the cost of mineral fertilizers. So far, only 40 million of the total has been used. That's right. If, for example, the average price in the last year without a program was 496 dollars, this year the average price is 628, with almost half the ammonia saltpeter purchased at 776 dollars. The question is: Who are we supporting? Whether or not to take the APC industry's debt lending mechanism out of the budget. If in 2002 the interest on commercial lending banks to agricultural producers was 25 per cent and for the national economy 19, in 2003, 20 and 18 respectively, and today 19 and 17. This is because the lending of agricultural producers is done on the basis of the mortgage on liquid assets in the equivalent of almost one to three. So this mechanism is basically about supporting commercial banks. The adoption of a number of laws on agricultural reform and its adaptation to market conditions did not reinforce the positive developments observed during the year 2000, when not only the growth rate of agriculture’s gross production was 20 percent, but after four years of loss, an average of 4 billion dollars received in the first and a half billion dollars. The credit went up more than twice, it was Yushchenka’s government year. In recent years, however, agricultural production has again become profitable. At the beginning of the year, up to 70 percent of the out-of-pay companies, the loan amounted to 1.8 billion dollars, twice as much as the receivable. The intersectoral relationship creates an even greater gap between the city and the village, and this is a vivid demonstration of the table where our village is located. Here's the answer, ladies and gentlemen. The socio-economic crisis in the Ukrainian village is the result of long-term non-professional actions by executive authorities at different levels without adequate human resources. The change in human resources policy -- over the course of the 13 years -- 11 ministers, policy at regional level -- is evidence of a lack of human resources policy, a clear, comprehensive and comprehensive policy. Agrarian development programmes in principle are new market conditions due to violations of the requirements of current legislation, not only in property and land rights and market formation, but also to the enforcement of laws aimed at preserving the soil as a basis for the wealth of the people of the environment and environmental security. These are the laws that we have recently adopted on land protection, on State control over land use and protection, and on the fertility sector program. In 2003 there were only 3.7 million dollars in the State budget, 10 million in 2004 with an annual need of at least 350 million dollars. As a result of almost 70 percent of the damage to agricultural enterprises, they've virtually stopped agrotechnical measures. And as a result, only the areas of acidic and salty soils today make up more than a third of what we don’t get as much as a quarter of agricultural produce. Limited investment in material and financial resources leads to land degradation, which now accounts for nearly five million acres [5 million ha]. The acceleration of soil degradation, the decrease in humus, has become global in Ukraine. The loss of nutrients in the soil exceeded the limit limit of three times. What are we preparing for future generations? And with this output, are we preparing to join the World Trade Organization and looking forward to competing with the countries of the European Union? Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! We don't have the time and human resources to realize the adverse effects of the socio-economic crisis in the country. So I am deeply convinced that our actions should be followed. First, the change in the ideology of agrarian politics should be based on the abandonment of software support for production and the transition to support the integrated development of rural areas, where there is a rural person in the center, more than 17 million of our citizens. The second is the development and adoption of a long-term integrated rural development programme that calculated the gradual elimination of social problems in rural areas and the creation of conditions for profitable agricultural production, the development of services, the creation of jobs in rural areas. To this end, at least 10 per cent of the total budget expenditure should be foreseen annually starting in 2005. Thirdly, the revision of the agrarian legislative framework and the development of new bills, which is the most important of which is their unconditional implementation in accordance with the rural development programme and the principles of agrarian policy in the country. Fourth: To scrutinize in terms of efficiency and transparency of the State support mechanism for agricultural producers, directing budgetary costs per hectare of agricultural crops and ensuring price stability to agricultural production, without increasing the tax burden on agriculture. Fifth: reform of the structure and management system of the agro-industry complex for the development of agrarian market infrastructure, the creation of a state system of monitoring, the development and development of advisory services in the country, and the implementation of priority provisions for the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation into European Union standards. People's Honourable Chosen Ones! A set of practical measures to improve the production and social sphere of the village and to remove the prolonged crisis of the field is largely proposed in the Supreme Council’s draft decree, which is unanimously approved by the committee, its members from various factions, registered on May 7 under number 5460. The government's implementation of the recommendations of this decision aimed at changing the very attitude of the agrarian complex will allow for positive trends in the situation in which our village is located. I look forward to your support for the ruling. I'm convinced that agrarian policy is being adjusted. The logic and relevance of the basic and sufficiently painful transformations in the countryside, and certainly will contribute to the achievement of the stated goal of substantially increasing the productivity of the sector and improving the standard of living of millions of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u106	Thank you. Sit down, Mikolo Fedorovich. There are no questions for the co-reporters. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to go over the information of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're going to take an hour and a half to do that. Regulation 3 years. The statements will first be made by factions, then by list, and by factions also by order, as recorded by the list. The only ones, dear colleagues. I remind you once again what question we are hearing today. The village is a very, very wide issue. But today we are hearing with you the question of compliance with the requirements of legislation, I repeat, of compliance with the requirements of legislation for the promotion of agro-industrial production and the priority of rural social development in Ukraine in 2004 and the formation of effective mechanisms for their development in the future. And that's why I'd like to follow exactly the order of the government that we've approved with you. A word from the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine is Shurma. Get ready for Bandurca. I can't see Shurma yet. Bandurko Alexander Markovich. You don't? Then please, Chevchenko, the Agrarian Party. Prepare Yukhnovsky from the People's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u107	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, Ukrainian Agrarian Party Today, listening to this issue on Government Day provides an opportunity to analyze the economic and social development of the village and to anticipate measures to improve it. It should be noted that thanks to the constructive position of most national MPs, the persistence of Ukrainian members of the Agrarian Party, Ukraine’s first government budget for 2004 has provided funds for a number of programmes and is launching in 2005 the financial year of the village. In addition, the State took on bank risks. We've continued to fix agricultural taxes, increased subsidies for agricultural products, freed private farmers from taxes on sub-farms, tax and garden land. Despite the increasing support of the State, however, the economic, financial and social situation of the agribusiness complex remains complex. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is not enough, but there are a number of APC laws. Sadly, they do not always come true. Experience in recent years has shown that the lack of a balanced long-term strategy for agricultural development slows down, on the one hand, legislative work and, on the other, creates uncertainty in the direction and mechanisms of this important sector of the economy. Thanks to the personal position of Prime Minister Janukovič Viktor Fedorovich, the agrarian bloc of government has worked on the basic principles of agrarian policy until 2015. These are the requirements of time and the request of agricultural producers. It's like an agrossion. The "Friendship" of the Pokrov region, a hero of Ukraine.; Agriculture of the NovoMoskovsky region of "Friendship", hero of Ukraine.; Rostot farm of Nicolaus Merculov and many others who are waiting for mortgage prices this year at least 700 dollars, buying grains by the state at a fair scheme and price. Reimbursement for mineral fertilizers, regardless of the cost of purchase. Returning to the last year’s system of donation of one kilogram of animal production and implementation of a number of other measures. Halfway through, it always leads to destruction. So if we continue to declare market and motivational incentives on the basis of private ownership of land and property, we will remain faced with the fact that there is almost no property, and the right to manage the land only after the owner has died. At best, it's based on imitation. As it is in the Ukrainian Law on the Social Development Priorities of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the People's Farms. When no cost has been recovered from 1995 to 2002, almost 700 million bracelets. Taxes continue to be placed on social infrastructure in the village by local authorities. I think it's time for the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to introduce a deputy minister to take care of the newly created Department of Social Policy. Then the funding will go from the Ministry of Economics to peasants. I would ask for a determination when she votes in the debate, to support all the most painful issues in the agricultural sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is where young deputies come in and accuse me of violating the Rules. I asked them to read the Rules, but I feel that he does not walk or wear the Rules, so I will read it. Article 4.2.3., third paragraph, states: "Each parliamentary group, the faction has a guaranteed right to speak to its representative on all matters of the agenda at meetings of the Supreme Council and its organs." It's written on page 49, Mr. Barranov's Rules of Procedure. Please have Yukhnowsky from the People's Landing faction to prepare Kirilchuku. Isn't Yukhnowsky here? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the government. I sincerely hope that the path of trial and error, which is how you can characterize the state agrarian policy, is already over. both the government and the Supreme Council have the opportunity not only to make a real assessment of the situation, to correct the shortcomings, but also to do so. We should also be motivated by the negative experience of 2003 in agriculture, which has highlighted the invulnerability of agricultural production in extreme situations and the processes of globalization in the world economy, our desire to become a market economy country and join the WTO. Let me briefly focus on some problems that I think need an urgent solution. First. The creation and operation of an organized agricultural market must take account of a number of factors. It's an extremely low purchasing capacity for most of the population that can't pay high prices for food. The consequences of this situation are seen in the internal consumer food market, where for mass use our people are increasingly offering a range of food products from the category. -produced products with various cheap fillers and substitutes, full dependence on domestic market prices on fluctuations in the world market based on a type of food product without economic weights to support the government at a relatively stable level. The absence of institutions to warn the reproducing of a product that for agricultural production is more a threat of bankruptcy than a deficit. This is due to the lack of an effective economic forecasting system for the necessary quantities of production of certain agricultural products, the timely informing of the situation in the internal and external markets and the methods of State influence on these processes. Under these conditions, agrarian production is more dependent than on the internal market, but on the ability to export produced products. It's different. It requires substantial changes in the fiscal and credit tax policy. So the budgets for the current year are projected to increase substantially the cost of supporting the agri-industrial complex. This is certainly a positive fact. But the existing state budget support system itself is imperfect and opaque, either selective or total, or purposeful, financing of government programs. By spending the budget, the state does not have the necessary influence on the formation of a rational structure of agricultural production, both to meet the needs of the internal market and to form an export market, taking into account the world economy, and has not become a full participant in the market. I think it is necessary to urgently consider and adopt in the Supreme Council draft laws amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of APC taxation and support for social standards, their employees, registration number 5483 and the basis for financial and budgetary support for agricultural production. The adoption of the last four years has been unjustifiably blocked in the Supreme Council. Registration number 0975. The adoption of these draft laws will allow for a systematic, integrated approach to solving the problems of the agri-industrial complex. And administrative to clear clear market mechanisms of state support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u110	Please, Kirilczuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Prepare the Pole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u111	Honorable participants in parliamentary hearings, distinguished voters of peasants. Today's session, today's hearing should be called, say, the salvation of the village from its final collapse. But by analyzing diagrams, graphs, diagrams, percentage comparisons that the government has multiplied, distributed to the national MPs, it seems that everything in agriculture is normal and nothing has happened. These diagrams will finally reassure the President, the Prime Minister, most ministers, and deputies, who are virtually rarely present in the villages. In addition to the heads of government taking the tour, there are still several farms in each area that ignored presidential decrees, Galchinian instructions, savluks, large-scale production, jobs, wages for peasants, and social institutions. These are just islands in a sea of terrible turmoil in the countryside. Today, peasants can be assured that nothing will change after these hearings and even after the adoption of the laws listed in the village. There is no major analysis in the government's information - what has criminal agrarian reform done for Ukrainians and Ukrainians? There are no answers to dozens of questions that bother peasants, and first of all, who will be responsible for the fact that without war, without plague, without natural disasters, peasants have suffered losses from kushmian village policies a few times more than during the Great Homeland War? That's why there's no graph government material, a diagram of how many millions before the 1990s have been reduced by cattle? How many millions of acres of fertile land have weeds grown? What has happened to the improved systems, the meliorated lands, that have been the most resilient? Where have entire fields of agricultural production, such as hops, shepherding, and others, disappeared? There are no main indicators in the materials: production of 100 hectares of salt, livestock productivity, fertility, because it depends on how they live and how much income the peasants receive. I'd like to ask, what prevented the government from implementing the basic law on rural development? There is practically everything to lift the village from its knees, but it is ignored. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I can confirm that all six years, all six budgets that have been adopted, have never been reduced in the budget committee, but only increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u112	Thank you, sit down, please. From the faction of "Our Ukraine" Poljancic. Get ready for Bandurca.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u113	Our Ukraine faction, 168th, Ternopolish. The village of Ukraine is more difficult than ever. By its potential, Ukraine was an agricultural and industrial state at all times. Yet we have confirmed the unique status that has recognized world co-operation and Europe in particular, the criminal and corruption state at the centre of the European continent. To avoid being loud, I want to do some analysis of the development of the APC during an independent Ukraine, and I would like someone after my speech to deny me the number of people responsible and responsible for this during this period to date. According to the State Department, in 94th year -- out of 12,000, 726, 95th - 3734, 96th - 8,500th, 98 - 90 percent and 2003, practically all farms. Agriculture has become a beggar class. The demographic map shows that between 100 and 150 rural settlements deteriorate and disappear from the state map each year. In more than a thousand rural settlements in the past year, it has been difficult to find children between one and five years of age, and the income of peasants does not exceed $100 and $160, or $15 a month. This was not the case with any kings and emperors. In western Ukraine, people in whole villages, besides disabled people and children, went out to look for a piece of bread outside the country, left schools of teachers, doctors of hospitals, engineers and skilled workers, and rural roads turned into Iraqi post-war ruins, cultural institutions into ruins, because in winter no one could afford to burn them, and workers with wages. The employee became a state in line with the bumblebees. I would like, dear friends, to ask other questions: Did the state have the opportunity to be a village today? 1995-1996, $2.5,000 was purchased under government guarantees. It's worth 2,000. $250,000, the real price at the time is $140,000, stolen by $110,000 on each hand. That's $275 million. And that's how you can make arguments today. In the absence of time, I cannot do that. I would like to emphasize that only in these years have more than $65 billion been taken out of the village, or stolen, or visually it's about 125 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u114	Please have the word Bandurka, the national deputy of the faction "Democratic Initiatives". Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Today, in Ukraine, almost all agricultural lands are leased, and the Ukrainian Land Rental Act, which we adopted back in 1998, is in force. And in general, there are dozens of laws and regulations in the area of the agro-industrial complex, which are well-known instructions, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, decrees of the President, which often conflict with each other. Our legislation is based on the fact that the land is passed on to a peasant free of charge. Now let's look at the order that is real. If the landlord passes the land, he must collect seven legal aids, at least two of which must be notarized. Now let's think about the 20-30, and sometimes 50 and 70 kilometers, once and for all, it's not possible to get all the help not only at the most intense desire of the peasant, but even when the official creates the right conditions for him. And now we're going to have to travel the peasant two or three times to the center, which is absolutely not cheap and pay tickets. In any case, two assignments, a duplicate of the State's right to land, would cost 60 dollars in that case, at the very least. If the tenant, the tenant, and the various legal documents need to be collected, seven of which need to be paid in the form, the amount for which they are received may be between 103 and 230 dollars per pie. Since this procedure will be repeated several times, changes in owners, renters, rentals, or otherwise. Well, maybe 100 or 200 bracelets are not that big, but under the most favorable conditions for renting and renting land rations, the village needs 87 working days or 119 calendar days. And actually there's a pay-per-view and a land-forming. Now, considering that there are still a bunch of mediators between the peasant and the state structures who also demand money for services, I think that the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Commission, should pay attention to this, because in article 16 on land leases, it says, "The transfer of land, defined in nature, to a lease without changing its purpose, is done without the design of the project taking it away." But in practice, we also have to pay for the project. There are certainly other comments, and I will hand them over in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, a word from the faction of the Social Democratic Party has Schurm. [[united]] Get ready for Komaru, "Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u117	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] As we examine the current state of the agro-industry complex and the village as a whole, we cannot help but note that the country’s food market today is 95 percent produced by domestic production. The government’s presence in the area of crediting the agro-industrial complex is increasing annually. Yet, this list of achievements actually runs out. The real situation in the agroprom remains extremely difficult. Traditionally, problems remain that there are no real possibilities for increasing the capacity of the food market as a result of low cost-effective demand for people, under-performing financial security, driving credit resources of the banking system, regardless of the application of the mechanisms for their cost-effective spending, increasing the price distortions of agricultural production and industrial production. The Ukrainian villages today suffer from unemployment, the impact of the working population abroad, the growth and spread of the depopulation. Socially destructive processes are stable. The poverty of the rural population continues, effectively excluding it from the country’s overall system of shaping plentiful demand. The agricultural sector is becoming increasingly less attractive to rural people, especially young people, as employment. In the near future, if existing trends are maintained, it is real that the problems of agriculture’s employment, the degradation of its labour potential, and ultimately the food security of the country are exacerbated. What are some real ways to deal with such a situation? In our view, Parliament and the ranks must formulate and legislatively establish clear strategic goals and priorities for agrarian policies that would provide a comprehensive solution to the productive and social problems of the village, which are organically linked. This could be facilitated by the adoption of the agricultural policy doctrine of Ukraine, for example, by 2015, which could be materialized in the National Programme for the Reconstruction and Development of the Agricultural Sector of the Economy for the same period. I would like to remind you that as early as February 6, 2003, such recommendations from parliamentary hearings had already been accepted. The need to develop and adopt both documents at the same time as the National Rural Social Development Programme is a fundamental requirement. In this regard, it is appropriate to provide for a draft decree that we can vote on. The government's mandate to develop a national rural development programme for the period 2005-2011 should be removed. The Supreme Council must be consistent in its decisions and thus formulate clear tasks before the government. The country's budgetary funding standards should be realistic. Today, there is a lack of discipline in law enforcement, and it is not desirable that Parliament's adoption of a regulation that contains a set of very specific rules would be a further declaration of populist tendencies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u118	Please have the word from the faction "Ukrainen Regions" National Deputy Komar. Get ready for Melniczuk, Soccer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u119	Deputies! Today’s report by the minister of agrarian politics highlights the problems of agriculture that need a solution. In my speech, I will address some of the issues of foreign policy. It can be effective if our production is competitive in value and quality in the world market. The first is known to be achieved by two ways: reducing production costs and increasing productivity. The reduction in production costs is related to the introduction of new technologies, new varieties of plants, and species of animals. And that can't be done without the funding of science. Increasing production productivity requires the introduction of new equipment and technology, the development of agricultural and food machinery, without which agriculture cannot take an effective step forward and compare itself with the efficiency of agriculture in developed countries. To go to other countries' markets, we have to have quality standards that match what's accepted in the world. Unfortunately, we don't even have laboratories that meet world requirements right now. And these measures need to be funded in the first phase alone, at 85 to 100 million dollars. In addition, for the development of standards that meet the world's requirements, there is a need to budget an additional 5 to 7 million dollars. One of the most important challenges for ensuring the competitiveness of our agricultural products is the level of domestic support for the APC. For example, the EU has 700 US dollars per hectare, 226 US dollars per hectare, 178 Czech Republic per hectare, and only 33 US dollars in Ukraine. Therefore, it is essential to anticipate in the next year's budget the appropriate level of support that we have confirmed in the WTO in the amount of 7.3 billion dollars, and this year's budget is only 15 percent of the required amount. This makes our position in the negotiating process very weak after joining the WTO. The increase in village budget funding is a very pressing issue that will ensure the competitiveness of domestic APC products in the internal and global markets. And the last. The 2005 budget process, which has already begun, and the issue of joining the WTO, needs to be combined with a radical change in the concept of government support for the village, adapting it to the WTO requirements, but with a much larger and better size and efficiency than it is now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u120	Thank you. Please have the people's MP Melniczuk, the faction of Soccer, prepare for Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u121	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Landowners' Association, and property stores. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished audience, the dear radio listeners. We're repeatedly asking what happened, who could have imagined Mr. President, his surroundings, such as Sabluk, gentlemen, Hajdewicki, others to carry out such agrarian reforms? Could we stop at the right time? Mowgli. The first two years after the reform was announced, the village lost some 60 billion circulation costs. We should think and ask ourselves, ‘ Where should we go next? They didn't stop, they didn't ask. Budget allocations, rural expenditure from 30 percent to 3 percent. Isn't this a disgrace to the whole of Europe for a state that had a powerful agrarian complex? More than 60 percent of the village’s technical park had been lost, and 40 percent of the remaining ones had already completed their depreciation period by 90 percent. Should I have stopped? Yes. Should I have taken measures? Yes. They didn't. Two categories of farming have emerged: population farming and agriculture. In the first category, production grew, not in the daytime, but in time, because the percentage of statistical lies is very high. The result is a tragic food crisis in the country. No bread, no bread, no bread. I had to buy high prices abroad. About 10 million acres [10 million ha] of fertile Ukrainian lands have been laid down with weeds. 80 percent of irrigation systems don't work. What is this operation? Is it not like a storm in the desert or a storm in a Ukrainian village? It's probably true. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that measures should be taken immediately. And what is reflected in the decision is that, in 2005, at least 10 percent of the rural budget expenditure is required to pass an export duty law on fertilizer. At least 1,000 bracelets can be found at the minimum purchase price for food grain. This will be our answer to the villagers about today’s Government Day. We have the principle of sending 200 million dollars to a subsidy for animal production. Reciprocate 730 million soccults. I think it's very principled, and the faction insists on it and will vote in favour of the decision that will help our village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, a word from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine is given to the Desert. Get ready for the Hapochki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u123	Honorable national MPs, distinguished representatives and members of the government. It's very simple for me today and it's very difficult for me to speak about the implementation of the law on the social development of the agri-industrial complex. With your permission, I want to go back to the two software documents that were developed, according to the APK, I mean, it was developed on 11.03. In 1999, it was called the National Programme for the Development of Agro-industry and the Social Recovery of the Village for 1999-2010. I mean, Ukraine 2010, I think those who work in government know very well. And I'm not going to comment on those figures, the indicators that we were going to achieve in 2004, in 2010, but what I'm going to say is that today, in the APC, a catastrophe, in virtually all areas of development, in the direction of an agro-industrial complex, in terms of agricultural engineering, in other complexes. I'm not just going to talk about it, but what I'm going to say is, today, how do we evaluate this entire gap, which in 98, there was more meat production at the time, by slaughtering cattle and birds than is planned today in the new programme that was developed, and I'm going to show you what's called "the economic, social development strategy of Ukraine through European integration." [[2004-2015]] That's more in the year 98 than it's going to be in 2011. And what was written in these programs? The goal of the 99th National Programme is to halt the decline in the stability of agricultural production, to ensure the food security of our nation. The main tasks are to create a multi-faceted agrarian economy, to support the development of an agro-industry complex, to protect a domestic producer, to develop market infrastructure, to channel investment towards the restoration and development of agrarian resource potential, and to provide a basis for state regulation that determines the creation of the necessary legal framework. What does the program called "Agrarian Development" say? We're in the draft regulation, I want to say the following, unfortunately, in three minutes you won't say what's written here, what we've read: the complete distortion of production structure, the low efficiency of agricultural enterprises, the distortion of price proportions, the irrational use of land resources, the critical wear-down of basic production funds, the imperfection of investment insurance mechanisms and the complete absence of social reform in the village. [[I'm done.]] It's in this program. I didn't cook it. So what I'm proposing is that there's no time, the government, the committee and the people's deputies that are behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u124	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich, for not hearing you. Please have the words of Hapoczka, the National Choice MP group, to prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I have also prepared two talks, but the time is only three minutes. So, I think, with your permission, the thoughts of those who sounded, so to speak, from a voice. Speaking of the agro-industry complex, I wanted to draw attention to some of the directions of today's agricultural problem, what is being addressed today is the social issue in the countryside today. I want to say this constructively: we're talking about the development of the social sphere, first of all, we need to make those decisions, the financial security, the economy, the conservation of the active one that was built, the social sphere in the countryside during the years of the Soviet government, the collective production. It's a large, very large social sphere, which today is disruptive, today it's being destroyed, today due to the absence of a host, it's almost today. And we're talking about building today when there's still a great potential for a social direction that today is without a host, and the main task today is to find the funds, to determine clearly and unequivocally a host that would be able to preserve the active potential of the social sphere. I want to remind the village in terms of social development, one of many is housing, the development of rural housing, which was a presidential decree. We were the fundamental territory that followed in Belgrade, and in Lugansk we were talking in a row, in an area, and this program is operating all over Ukraine. But the lack of funding, the lack of system work in this direction is also inhibited. A very targeted and targeted program. Speaking of the work of the government today, I would like to wish one thing: today I came to the government of a normal man, a minister, first of all, a village with which I worked personally, I know this person. We worked with him in Donbas, in Luhansk, in Donetsk, in the village, and in Donbas, as one of the farmers said, "You know what a village is on Donbas? This is one sunflower, all terricones, one sunflower between the terricones." And we were able to do some volume there, and so I sincerely desire this minister and his approaches for today’s success in the work. And I want to assure you that, with our support, with parliamentary support, with the mandatory adjustment of the 2004 budget, we need to find the funds, support the work of the APC, direction and achieve the indicators that are desirable for the entire village of Ukraine. I'm going to do everything I can to achieve this. I want the government in this direction, and I want courage, and I want a firm position on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u126	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Gabrieluk, the deputy group "Centre". Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u127	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, respected members of the government. In preparation for today's meeting, I have carefully studied the materials that have been proposed for our consideration of the village. There are many figures, facts, and they speak and acknowledge what is difficult, but there are, of course, positive, positive developments. I want to tell everyone convincingly that our group is working for the government to make the best changes in the agro-industry sector. But I do not want the figures and facts to hide the real situation in the country. Because you and I are very well aware that when, knowing and despite these figures, the graphs that we have given us come to feel that the crisis is already in the back and we are all in the way of being set up. But enough to come to any village and look at the reality of the situation, there is a feeling that the crisis is on fire and before it is resolved or overcome as it is to heaven. I will take, for example, one medium village in the centre of Ukraine. One day, 15 or 18 cars with fish from this village drove to Kiev every day. The warehouses were full of grains, many cattle, birds, tens of thousands of birds. What's going on there today? Scott cut out, no birds, no birds empty, no mosquitoes empty. And the worst part is, there's no more brick left than one foundation. Recently, a 26-year-old boy - young, healthy - was held in this village for the holidays. But like most people in the village, he was unemployed. He died under the plate just like the bird that he had to understand and was pushed by the situation that exists today. But he was full of strength and health. I think that this example of this guy's death is a symbol of the disaster in the village. Today the village eats what was created by our fathers and grandfathers. The village infrastructure's broken. What's the status of the clubs, the post office, the medical checkpoints?Oh, my God! In this village, on the brink of extinction, on the brink of death. But there are other situations that are not better. And most of all. There's no power in the village today. Soviets were destroyed and no new ones were established. Who's to be approached by a peasant today? To the head of the country? What can he decide? To the police station? So he's alone in two or three villages, and there's no gas, and he's sitting in the middle. That's why people turned up, became violent, locked themselves in. Culture in the country is a teacher. What can they do? There's no writing. What knowledge, education, and information can they provide to rural children? If you look at the spirit that rural children are brought up today. At the pioneer place, the comsomola came up empty. As a result, reforms in themselves are good, but we can see that this requires serious work by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u128	Thank you. Please have the word of National Deputy Simonenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! First of all, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the situation in agriculture has reached a critical limit. For the first time in Ukraine, 90 percent of food grain, 60 percent of sugar, 40 percent of bird meat, and tens of thousands of tons of other products were imported. The main conclusion, whatever the so - called reformers say, is that Ukraine’s food security has been lost for many years. And a few more conclusions need to be drawn before we can identify the main measures that we believe would help improve the situation. One conclusion. As a result of reform, Ukrainian peasants today are not masters of their land. The main means of production have been in the hands of modern land barons and mafia groups, and a third of the circulation of agricultural products is done by shadow schemes. The second conclusion. The oligarchic reform of the earth has turned the peasants into unemployed, deepened social problems, such as poverty, unemployment, the outbreak of crime, low birth rates, and high mortality. But there are also a few problems that today need urgent action and a concrete plan. Let's think about not talking about reforms, how to implement them, when agricultural raspberries provide only 45-65 percent. Ninety percent have already recovered their amortization resources. The rate of annual wearout is several times higher than the rate of purchase. For example, in the Zitomir region last year, let's think about nine tractors bought and one grain harvester all over the area. Here are the reforms on the oxen and. with a statue. Three or four years later, a technical collapse will take place in agriculture. The cut-off line due to the lack of tractors will occur in early 2008. More than 50 percent of the crops will be lost in 2007, and in 2998, the harvest can never be expected. Next problem. It's a mineral fertilizer supply. Dear friends! For us to be able to have normal crops today, we need to be able to direct agriculture this year to buy minibars at least 11 to 12 billion dollars, because 1 ton of mineral fertilizers gives us 5 tons of grain. Thus, a ton of grain costs 700 dollars and a ton of mineral fertilizer. So we have 3.5 thousand dollars. What should we do? This is, first of all, to re-establish commercial agricultural production with scientifically based harvests, to address technical restocking of agriculture and, in the next two or three years, to address the issue of combines and tractors, to provide cheap loans of 3 or 5 percent per year, to the issue of price distortions for agriculture and the production industry and to the current customs policy. Such specific measures, we believe, can help to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u130	Thank you. Representatives of all the factions who wanted to participate and perform spoke. Now we're going to go according to the list. Please, Melnik, the Socialist faction, prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u131	Mikola Melnik, Winnichtina, Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies. It takes a great dreamer to believe the optimistic intentions of the bill, the State Program of several distinguished deputies. The APC State Support Bill, which we are hearing today, has only one percent of the funds that could balance the village's living standards with the city. So not before, as soon as 100 years later, the village will reach its present urban level. While approving optimistic intentions, a project designer who, after the presidential election, will accept another status, depending on who sits in the presidential chair, is not worth it. However, Your Honor, we now live in a state where laws do not work, because the political and economic ball rules criminality, and these are elite thieves in a law that is allowed to rob and not be held accountable before the law, in front of conscience, in front of millions of poor people. In order to become more aware of the political situation of the common people, it was clear who was ruling us, who would follow only one example, and who would be hundreds of them. The Minister’s office has attached an agro-industrial complex of five areas to the Cherkas Hembinata. The spring ends, and Cherka’s factory owners block the supply of Minvolvs on Kabmin’s premium quotas. After thousands of complaints from peasants, I am dialing the phone of the owner of this plant, Ernest Eduardoovich, my colleague in the Supreme Council, who came into politics at a wave, that he would take care of the state goods, and lied to the people. Just as a faction lied to him, in which he felt very good. Please weigh it and give with a good heart to the villagers what is rightfully theirs. In response, the national deputy Galiev brutally claims that I bought the factory for my blood, and Janukovic for me by his decrees at one place. Now, my people, my colleagues, what are the good intentions and determinations that have been prepared to vote in today's session? Never. Because thieves in the law aren't afraid of their "pagans." These, in turn, have no rights because their mutual interests are so intertwined that they create the only criminal whole. But there is a perfectly legitimate question: Did he buy Galie’s combination that cost a billion dollars for his blood? Of course not. He had no billionaires, no grandparents, but shamelessly, cynically robbed us with you. I'm talking to Yushchenk. Victor Andryovich, your faction is made Galilean. Tell me, what future does the village have? Sorry, there is no future for a peasant with such deputies. And today's session is an empty sound in the abyss of Ukrainian criminality, where thieves in the law are fighting not for democracy, not for raising the standard of living of the people, but for a partition of the already robbed. Where is the Antimonopoly Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u132	Yes, please, National Deputy Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u133	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Back in the early 1990s, some Ukrainian scientists and politicians had argued that Ukraine would be able to provide a much higher standard of living for the Ukrainian people than it was for the Soviet Union. But in recent years, the authorities, their servants, have been trying to attach the opposite opinion to the people. That is, today’s problems and problems are caused by objective causes primarily by poverty inherited from its past. But according to the statistics of the late 1980s, Ukraine ranked first in Europe in the production of caviar and steel, second in coal production, first in the world in sugar production, second in Europe in the collection of wheat. It had the most fertile soil and the largest herd of cattle in Europe. At the level of scientific development, UNESCO held seventh place on the planet and third place on military power. The domestic gross per capita product in 1991 amounted to $5,180. All of this gave the UN experts reason to believe that after the collapse of the Union, Ukraine should enter the eight most powerful nations in the world. What does Ukraine have today? After 12 years of independence, Ukraine moved about 90 places at the socio-economic level and 39 places at the scientific and technical level. And it has a category of distant state of the world. During this time, she lost more than half of her production potential. A large number of businesses have been destroyed. For example, out of 191 sugar mills, 37 were cut into scrap metal and tens in line. In agriculture, today, 50.4 percent of the basic means of production are working. The number of people in the national economy has decreased from 25 million to 18 million. In the past ten years, the village’s labour resources have declined by one and a half million. The majority of working peasants fill a group of employees in private households alone. Some 3 million villagers out of 8 million workers do not have a stable place of work and reliable sources of income. In rural areas there are now fewer than a quarter of domestic service enterprises. The number of retail businesses decreased by half. In the last six years, 335 villages have been abandoned by schools, over 3,000. The village of children’s preschools has been closed to nearly 500 district hospitals. In fact, there is no transport connection. This is what the village is like today. And here's how the government, in its paws, supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u134	The word is given by the national MP of Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u135	Dear national MPs, dear voters! Hearing the government in Parliament at all times with the worst in agriculture reminds me of a familiar fairy tale whose morals are spoken, brothers, if you don't sit down, and you can't play. Do you not hear that instead of music, there is a groaning, a groaning, of all the Ukrainian people? Last year, the best Ukrainian Blacklands collected record low grain crops, and the price of bread increased from month to month, and other foods cost. With today’s level of farming, we can get to the point where we can forget what the taste of milk is, and the cow’s normal, domestic cow will have to be brought to the Red Book because in the last year the number of cows in Ukraine has dropped by 16 percent. That's one and a half million heads. The rate of cutting up animals is increasing. The government now reports that in 2003, meat production rose by 26 percent, and in the first quarter of today, by 27 percent, it was time to place the breasts under orders. In fact, criminal cases would have to be investigated as to how and why the holdings of Hersonian, Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovsk, Zakarpatsk and Crimea were settled before 40 percent of cows and 42-56 pigs were cut in a year. It is literally barbaric that the mother’s head is destroyed. Tell me, where do we go now if there's only one cow in an area like Hersonska for 100 hectares? The same is true in the field of hops. The Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law according to which one percent of beer, wine, and cognac are going to develop gardening, grapes, hops. It would seem that this branch should be healed. Yet, money is spent on the budget. No, let's say there's no hop today, no idea where that money was being shared, and we're having meetings, is there a treasury in the state or not? There's no way they can make it clear by now. Politics also failed to justify small - scale commercial production. We are, you see, oriented towards the hurling of ancient Poland, because our President likes to whistle with Mr. Kwasnevsky somewhere in the border vines. And it's not funny for the government to decide whether to prioritise agrarian politics. I had to study the agricultural sector of England. An interesting part in Britain is the sale of land. I'm leading this to the fact that we have since January 1st to sell land. In England, at least 200 acres [200 ha] are implemented in one hand, but since the cost is 16,000 dollars per hectare, you can understand the cost in order to obtain a minimum. And these funds never occupy themselves there. So the land in them is practically not bought; it belongs today, practically, to pension funds that rent land, and thus today they have stable pensions. So today we have to go back to financing the gas pipelines to the villages, so we have to go back to updating the tract. The tractor park through the agrolysis system. The government has something to work on. And hopefully the conclusions of today’s hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u136	Thank you. Please have the people's deputy Masenko, the Communist faction, prepare Tkachenko. Please, Masenko. I repeat, please leave the rostrum. Well, you could say ten. Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please take your seat. Once again for the Baranowski MP, who just writes, not reads. Which, sadly, I now work for the queen of the Rules. I've already called you one page. Now I say, page 18 open, paragraph 9, what the chairman has the right to do. Open page 41, and so on and so forth. [[I'm going to add these two minutes because we've had some arguments.]] So not only do you write, but you also read, it will be so much. Please, Masenko. Get him ready, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u137	Dear national deputies, guests. The fact that all the normative acts relating to the reform of the APC, in my view, are criminal is clear. But I'm surprised by this. Presidential decree on earthbending. Although he is unconstitutional in my opinion, he is well - exercised in executive power. And all the structures of the state were interested in it being implemented. And the National Programme for the Development of the Social Sector of the Village until 2005, which was approved by the President's Decree, has not been implemented, well, nothing has been done for so many or so many years. So what's the approach? It was the President who issued the decree, and his service is not all in compliance with this norm. Well, that doesn't fit in with normal thinking at all. Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on granting loans to agricultural producers Well, if they did, most of the most farmers don't get credit. The report, or the information, said that banks put sticks in their wheels. Who created those banks? To whom do they serve, and to whom do they serve? And what about the state, what about the power that can't do anything about the banks that have been stolen from the peasants and now they don't want to give it a hard time? 251.6 million wages. Can't you just give long-term credit? The other thing is there's no one left to give. I agree here. Because these kind of trappers showed up, they blew it all up. There are no law-abiding people anymore, no one. To give these loans to someone who's going to be accounted for indebted wages, that's a really difficult moment. But it has to be done. It is not the villagers who are to blame for this reform. There, I'm looking, and Danilenko's walking, and they're sitting there like this, Polančic said. For someone to deny it, I deny it. Here many were sitting in the hall, committing crimes with their own hands when they voted, pressing buttons for these laws. So it's time to answer. And we need both the Attorney General and the parents of these reforms, and Sauluk, and Hadewick. Let's see how these normative reform acts are now being implemented. I'm not blaming the current MinAPC leadership at all, but I'm addressing you. The inhabitants of the villages of the Comishna, the Great Soročinci of the Mirgorod region of Poltava, Koshmanovka Mašinsky district, Artemiuk of the Chutovsky region, Biliika Kobiljak, Iskivci Lubenski, where everything was stolen. It was unfairly privatized, broken up. Now people don't fight anywhere in the Attorney General's Office or in the President's office or in the minister's direction, no one's going anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u138	The word has the national deputy Tkachenko, a faction of Communists. Get Phydenka ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Tuck, Communist faction. I think that the degradation of society and the agro-industry complex as the foundation of Ukraine's economy today can only be confirmed by how much we produce and how much we provide our own people with food needs. By 1991, we per capita produced an average of 3.5 thousand kilocalories, now consuming 2.2 to 2.3. Degrades the population of Ukraine. The other one. I think for the first time in the history of Ukraine, I've lost food security, and today I need to shake both the President and all the government officials to shudder. And the third. This is a historical sign that today we need to change not ministers, today we need to change the food system, and in this case the political system. Then the question arises, "And who will take responsibility for the restoration of Ukraine's past glory as the grain of Europe?" Call me that political party, that political power other than the Communist Party? I think everyone understands that today. Today both the minister and my countryman from Ternopol told me what they had done in the Ternopil region, which was an example in agro-industrial production. Today, dear friends, in fact, only the Communist Party has enough knowledge and expertise to co-operate in an agri-industrial complex. Solve the question of how to save people in the countryside. That's question number one. Today, no technology, no chemistry, how to save people. Of the 4.6 million people directly involved in production, we lost 18 percent of the working population in 12 years. So, dear friends, I think the Communist Party is working today on a new national program for the restoration of the state and in this case the restoration of the agro-industry complex and its food security. I think the Communist Party can take on this responsibility in the October elections. If the Ukrainian people listen to us today, I think they will come to the right conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u140	Thank you. The word is given by the People’s Deputy, Phydenko, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u141	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Volin. Will you yet find such a state where agriculture is so openly and cynically destroyed by calling its criminal acts a reform? And most of all, no one is being punished for it. And on the bench of the defendants, the people will still sit and sit on it, first of all, by all the vice-prime ministers in the village who worked after Alexander Tkachenka. Their agrarian party of Ukraine and its faction in the Supreme Council are to sit with them. It's a special place for agrarian academics to take care of the village's collapse with their intelligence. It was also time to issue a black book listing the names of those national MPs who voted in favour of the criminal Earth code, which was sold by a fraudulent method in this room. A few months ago, one of the agrarian reform ideologists, the scholar Sabluk saw through and wrote a letter to the President, a corresponding note where he painted the terrible state of agriculture, and he said that, literally a few years later, there was a complete collapse, and this is an ideologist of reforms. A peasant now lives in extremely difficult conditions. Today, he is not interested in his work. Its wages are twice as low as those of the whole in Ukraine, three times less than those of the industry. In fact, the village lacks proper household, commercial, medical, transportation, and cultural services. The village today became totally unemployed. Rent-a-mine relations between peasants are a terrible form of exploitation. Who determined that only one percent of the value of the pie should be based on the rent, so to speak. Rent-a-man relationships in Volina, for example, I want to show you where one of the most terrible forms of pie rent exploitation, the rent in cash is only 11 percent, the grain is 32 percent, and this is expressed in natural terms. 2-3 sacks of barley, and services about 40 percent. I mean, I gave the horse a look at the city, and it was you and me that got the combine to grind a little bit of grain there, that I was counting on you. That's terrible! As for social development in rural areas. The Rural Social Development Parity Act provides for one percent, at least one percent of the value of gross domestic product, to be allocated annually to rural development. This is not done in the state at all. But today they're funding Earth reform, and we have, say, agencies like the United States Agency for International Development, and they're allocating two million state acts, and they're putting it on the ground. Two hundred million dollars to accelerate Earth reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u142	Thank you. The word is given by the National Deputy of Orzhachovsky, a Communist faction. Get ready for Kozlowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u143	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear government day! There is much to be said about the harmfulness of agricultural reform. The Left Powers, in particular the Ukrainian Company, believed and believed that reforms should improve the production and livelihood of people in the countryside rather than deliberately overthrow them. The negatives of the made, the collapse of the social sphere, the production base, the service units, are already being talked about as we have heard both authorities and scientists. One has probably been understood by all — small - scale manufacturing in modern times is unsuspecting. Got it. However, the actions of the government, local officials, were not understood. The question of the day is how to avoid hunger, unemployment, and moneylessness. Unfortunately, the answer is neither science nor agrarian government. Probably because we have to recognize the unacceptable ideologies of rural agro-reforming. And the President, you see, regrets the situation if we can't reverse the moratorium on land sales law. Leonid Danilovich, go to the village, people will tell you that without the support of the financial and technical land, it will not bring joy. Many today advocate a return to the socialist form of land use. As for me, the words of the guarantor, not of the village, but of the individual oligarchs, to whom there will soon be no need to buy in Ukraine, so give them the land. The president also mentioned the difficult work of veteran heroes for 40 to 50 years in rebuilding the war-torn agriculture. Unfortunately, we have not heard today, for which happiness we have ruined the state and collective forms of farming. Probably just for the sake of asserting its authority and power of action. For people who have lost social security and received land, reformers are worse off than those who have been protected by our veterans of war and back. History has shown that the agricultural policy of socialist Ukraine was projected, and patriotism and internationalism accelerated the mountains. Today, in Ukraine, the village is viewed by prism as a means of destroying it and earning a measure of profit. Hopes rely on foreign investment and people’s capital. As for the first ones, if they do come, the peasants don't see them, and the second, where the money comes from. During my days in Hersonian, I met with our voters. Hersonians today remember that last year the government did not help them, did not help them in the spring. Today, these are the main requirements. It's legal to provide a village so that people can protect themselves. The other one. Today, everything is being done to ensure that our graduates in the schools of Silgosprofetstechnics do not receive the appropriate documents because they have to pay a lot of money. Today, exams are suspended in classrooms.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u144	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Kozlowski, a faction of the Agrarian Party. Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u145	Anatoly Kozlowski, Mikolayevščina, 133 constituency, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Honorable chairman, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national MPs, respected broadcasters. Today we are discussing a very important question. And in his report Minister of Agriculture Slavuta said well, I must say, prepared well and responsibly, and I think he has revealed many of the issues that we need to resolve. We must know today, comrades, that the government and us that Ukraine cannot be rich without a prosperous village. In meeting with the electorate, village and city workers demand that we, MPs and executive authorities more effectively influence agri-industrial affairs, raise living standards, increase jobs, increase wages, and retire. the priority of prices for production. Workmen and students, pensioners demand power from us, to live by the law, not by the way we do it today. They ask: When will the oligarchs finish ruling the state? We felt it in the supply of mineral fertilizers. As long as our vice-premiers haven't tried, we're as good as we can get. Yeah, we got more fertilizer than we did last year, but we need a lot more than we got this year. I don't understand why we have electricity in a village for peasants much more expensive than all over Ukraine. Honorable members of the government, the modern aspect of political life, are the need for adjustment, as required by the prime minister, fruitful cooperation, and mutual responsibility of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers on economic, political and social issues. In keeping with these relations between the legislative and executive branches of power, we must conduct these hearings and make such responsible decisions, laws in which we must be assured by executive authority. In my opinion, in order to make this situation a fundamental one, it is essential to ensure that the legislation in force in Ukraine on the priority development of an agri-industrial complex is implemented, that budgetary funding is increased. The Agrarian Party faction had already declared this at the 2004 budget. We insist that it takes at least seven billion dollars for 2005. We'd like to be reintroduced into the Ministry of Economics by a department headed by the First Deputy Minister of Social Affairs. And this is the most important issue that we must resolve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, national deputy Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party, prepare for Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear friends, colleagues! There is no other sector of the economy except the agrarian sector, which we would not consider so often in Parliament on Government Day. There may be two reasons for such attention on the part of the Supreme Council: or, indeed, there are new urgent issues that need to be resolved by the mandatory intervention of the legislative body, or vice versa, that do not solve the timely old problems that pass into the chronic stage. In my opinion, it is one reason and the other that has led to the consideration of today’s issue, for there is nothing new, yet unknown. There are old pains, unfortunately, and the treatment of these pains is ineffective. The question is, why does this work? I'll also allow myself to make some suggestions. First, until we solve all the problems related to the employment of the rural population, with wages not only for agricultural workers, but in other areas of budgetary financing, including pensions, no socio-economic stability, no enhancement of prosperity and no restoration of the village in general can be achieved either. I'm sure it's this triangle that has a steady job, a high salary, a decent pension -- the future of the village, so Ukraine. Based on these factors, we need to build our agrarian policies. Second, so we need to change the state support and aid system, and to do that, the rural sector needs to be divided into two components: the manufacturing, agricultural, and business, and the social sector, respectively, and finance them. In particular, agriculture or production needs to be approached, like anyone else, of course, and given the seasonality of production, the slow circulation of capital, the use of land, and so on. For its development, the State must provide, first and foremost, clear, transparent and efficient market rules, and, more specifically, create appropriate conditions: legal, investment and tax. As far as the social sphere is concerned, the focus should be, first of all, the human being, the village dweller, no matter where he works. That is why the basic support of the State must go to his address. And to do that, instead of the corner unit that my colleagues at the Ministry of Agrarian Policy have been talking about today, you need to create a state department for social development. In the early years of independence, if you remember, a similar state committee was already in the Supreme Council. Moreover, a commission was created and a deputy minister of agrarian politics was created. Another serious problem is technical policy. We need to change it immediately. One: I also make a proposal to create a government committee from rural machinery and to add 150 million dollars to the budget for the second half of the year. And the last. I support the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin: 2005 to be declared Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u148	Thank you. The word is given by the national MP Mironenko, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u149	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. There are calls to announce the year of the village and so forth. But let's face it, let's not pretend. A few words first, let's say that, let's say, now the Crimea has suffered tremendously from April's frosts. And, of course, the Government of Ukraine is obliged to assist Crimea agricultural enterprises in order not to defraud very many businesses. But let's not shift from one of the main reasons to the next. The main reason is not in the face, not in the freezing, but in a capitalist way. In 1991, private banks were selected for capitalism, and a huge credit rate destroyed the economy and the people. Who doesn't know? Everyone. Why are some quiet here? There have been private entrepreneurs who have “accepted” energy resources. The economy is suffering, the people are suffering, the population is suffering specifically, and tariffs are rising. Shut up. Agriculture is destroyed - silence. Why the right factions and so - called centrist factions may not have the truth in this regard. The clerk is immobilized in our time. Why, the distinguished gentleman who screamed from the center now? Why? Because it's capitalism. Because no one's answering. The thieves don't answer. Thieves cover for thieves. For example, let me give you an example. This applies to agricultural enterprises. The Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Kirpa, issued an order to redirect the money of all ports from the Lozman charges in favour of one entity - deltolotzman. As a result, only in the city of Kerch will unemployment increase by a thousand. Do you, respectable right and centrists not care? You must be worried. And so will other port cities. He broke several laws. I addressed the President of Ukraine, the head of the Government of Ukraine, the Attorney General, to the Antimonopoly Committee. Let's see how they react to that. If there's a response, we'll see that this order is cancelled, so there's still hope. But first, I'd like to invite everyone. Respectable compatriots! It's time for us to come to a conclusion. Without an end to capitalism, without a return to the socialist path, without the restoration of public investment banks, without the return of strategic sectors of the economy to the hands of the State of the people, we will not lift up agriculture, we will not raise industry. The people will continue to suffer and continue to be hypocrites in front of the presidential elections, to give gifts to the population, and to tell them how good they are. The lie will continue to ensure the victory of the supporters of capitalism. Therefore, I call upon the well-respected compatriots to be naked in the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u150	Thank you. The word is given by the National Deputy of Sulkovsky, a faction of "Ukraine". Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear members of the government! Honorable National Deputies and Presence! It's a pity that today we have such an important hearing -- about the state of affairs that happened, about the situation in the village, where, to a greater extent, I think, I've realized that there were more political implications than there were in finding a solution to the difficult situation, in fact, in which our village ended up in the years of our independent Ukraine. And that's why it's the biggest regret when a national deputy comes forward who really wasn't involved in the leadership of executive power, and that's when a government official comes forward who even led the government, and who, during his leadership period, really fell down the village, and who today doesn't make any accusations on his side, but who names the government who, at last in the years of an independent state, wants to be recognized, doesn't want an opposition or a neo-oppositioner, and, in fact, the government in the years of an independent state really has not really responded to the situation that took place in the village. Before assessing compliance with the requirements of existing legislation, an assessment of the legislative framework that is designed to regulate agri-industrial relations should be made, because it is the establishment of a full legislative basis that insists on the parliamentary hearing recommendations that took place in February of last year. At present, it is characterized by an excessive number of legal and regulatory acts, which have varying legal power, and agrarian and legal rules, by legislative and legal acts, of various areas of law, are scattered. There's a great deal of drinking about the weight of legislation, which is often not in line with the relevant laws. The laws submitted to the Supreme Council are coming with considerable delay. The Earth Code doesn't give intended returns due to the absence of laws that complement it. Over the years since its adoption, more than half of the legislative path has been passed, so more questions have been accumulated than answers. Dear friends! I would like to say that, in fact, today's report is meaningful to us by Minister of Agrarian Politics Viktor Andriyovich. I think that, at last, the politics of our native Ministry of Agrarian Policy, because I am a member of the Agrarian Committee of the Supreme Council, I think that if there are such political approaches, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u152	Thank you. Yes, I can't see Demyokin. Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction. Get ready for Odysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u153	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! It reminds me of today’s discussion of this important issue of running on the spot. Why? If we look at Project Regulation 5.6, it's about how to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the National Program for Rural Development for the period 2005-2011, the State Program for the Construction of Rural Social Infrastructure. These are very appropriate proposals, but at one time you and I have adopted the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 6 February 2003 No. 495 "On Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, Reform Procedures and Measures to Improve the Situation in the Village." It was there that these positions were repeated: to submit the National Programme for Restoration and Development of the Agrarian Sector for the period up to 2010, to submit the National Rural Social Development Programme in advance by 2013 and so forth. Finally, there was the Presidential Decree of February 15, 2002, on the first-ever measures to support the social sphere of the village. The Cabinet of Ministers was commissioned to submit a project for 2002-2004 of the National Rural Social Development Programme for the period up to 2011 and other very interesting things. And the questions are, isn't that what we're talking about right now, and we're even perfecting in the draft of the decree, just the osmosis? I want to say something like this, in the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, we have already received and are now studying the drafts of appropriate legislation on gas supply for the Blackwater areas that have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, namely, the village, the provision of clean drinking water to the rural area, even a state-wide programme for socio-economic rehabilitation of polluted areas or more specifically proposed to develop it. And this is recorded in the recommendations until the 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. It seems that the left hand in the government doesn't know what rights do to the village. And finally. There are such proposals in the draft regulation, proposed to create a state land cadastre, registration bill 5394, proposed to ratify the loan agreement and finally the state mortgage bank. Our faction will not vote if there are such proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u154	Please, Odynik, the faction of our Ukraine, prepare Sokirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u155	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Winnitzkin. Honourable MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine, a respected government. Today we're again listening to the most painful question of the day, it's a question of agricultural development. Why did I emphasize the word "listen"? Because most peasants, thousands of these peasants no longer have anything left to listen to. Because they've already taken everything. They took the right to work, tore the farms to nothing, and took away the right to rest. In every village, either there is no house of culture, no club, no kindergarten, or they look as scary as after the war. Hospitals, they don't think there's any need in the village today. Why? Because the peasant doesn't have any money to treat. So you can go to one hospital for 20 to 30 villages where a peasant can get to, or maybe he won't get to. So today the villagers are listening, and I think everyone wants to shout and say, "Can you lie to yourself enough, can you lie to your own people enough that we have so good?".. Today, too, I would like to say: Where do we go, what do we do, and what do we live for? We are already saying that we live almost as well as we do in Europe. At that time, a peasant has nothing to buy, not something more necessary. That means when we talk, it means that we don't see what's happening in reality in the village. Why, of course, does the question arise, Why is this happening? I think the main reason is that all government programs are so word-populistic. If that's not the case, let's figure it out. A good program has been adopted to help the village with the minibars. But how does this program work? How were these minibars distributed in the regions? How is it distributed in places? I think you all know, and I know. But let the peasant know, the simple one, that he's being distributed: that's what he's going to give, because that's what he can take away, and that's not what he needs to take off his job. That's why I want to talk to everyone today. Let's get back to it. Let's look at the village with real eyes. Let's tell people the truth once, and they'll understand, understand and support us, and support us to rebuild the village. If we don't rebuild the village today, it'll be a year or two, and we'll lose Ukraine, we'll lose its independence! Maybe they've even lost. I ask all of us, to the sanctuary, to treat the earth as a mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u156	Thank you. The word is Sokirka, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare the powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u157	Mikola Sokirko, "Our Ukraine" faction, "Solidarity." Dear members of the government, dear colleagues! The situation today in the agro-industrial sector of Ukraine’s economy is simply catastrophic. The village is debilitated, devastated, corrupt, and broken - down technology, a ruined communal sphere. This situation is the result of reform. And despite the government’s fine assurances, agrarians today have no reason to expect that the situation will soon improve. For the last time, the village experienced real care when the government headed Victor Yushchenko. Yes, for the first time in years of independence, peasants received real support: a mechanism was developed and implemented to credit the agricultural producer by partially compensating the interest on loans from commercial banks. The village was provided with mortars and fuel. In 2001, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted the special programme "The Grain of Ukraine 2001-2004". And most of all, this program has started to come true. In 2002, the country collected a record crop in recent years. Instead of effectively managing the solution, the next Kabmin contributed to the purchase of grain into peasants at a reduced price and to the mass sales abroad. Such actions by officials who, instead of growing their own, can only sell with foreign hands, lead to a severe food crisis that we saw and observed last year. The government did not use the situation for the benefit of the village, nor did it fill the government’s reserves of grain, but it helped to make it available for sale at no cost. Today's government, like its predecessors, the government of Kinach, has failed to demonstrate understanding of the processes in the agro-industrial complex and has not taken any real steps to support the village. Instead, problems in the sector are trying to solve administrative problems -- by curbing food prices. When the price of grain began to rise, instead of starting an intervention with the State budget, the current government pressured the producers that they had fixed the price of grain and flour, that is, you, peasants, sell grown bread, milk, meat, at fixed prices, and God forbid, they'll go up, we'll order. And in return, we'll sell you fuel, interfacing, engineering, spare parts and any other goods at free market prices. But, excuse me, how much can you fool this peasant? Do you think private farmers will sell bread at reduced prices? Or will supermarkets and other private stores take advantage of the damage? No, of course not. The food market can be effectively regulated in only one way, through the granting of subsidies to agricultural producers. Either we need to make up for the cost of growing crops, or we need to make up for the cost of farming, or we need to make up for the cost of fuel, minibars, remedies, and techniques. It seems that the village’s genocide is being carried out in a special way today, so that the area will be completely bankrupt, and the destitute peasant sells the last thing he has — a nursing home. Earth. Yet there is no way to launch today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u158	Thank you. The word is made by the national deputy of Chernevski, the faction of "Our Ukraine". And in view of taking the time for some discussions, prepare for Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u159	Dear Chairman, distinguished people's deputies and those who watch us on TV and radio! Darnick electoral district, leader of the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”, Leonid Chernovetski. I want to tell you that the government's programme should actually be as follows: not about pediment in general, but every peasant in particular, because, in fact, I've been to the village and I'll tell you some very interesting things: we're going to be able to do some guided tours in the villages soon, because our peasants are becoming the first-born people. They smoke, for example, if they smoke, well, they just smoke. And they're wearing clothes that were still in Soviet power. Well, it's just a nightmare, that's all. Soon they'll just be walking around in bandages. But what I want to say is that I'm not expecting anything from the government programme, but from the Agrarian Party, I want to express my support for it, at least because we already have a village, first of all, we have an Agrarian Party that understands where the problem is. The problem is that we do not support those who still want to work in the village. We've got all the businessmen, we've got the security services turned into organs, not organs, but criminal groups that keep peasants from making money, especially farmers. They are distracted by the presidents of the former colchuses, every local official. There is no reaction from the Public Prosecutor's Office at all. 17 million people, the figure that has been called today, are in dire shape. It's just some kind of nightmare that's even hard to imagine. And it would be nice if we took the entire Supreme Council and went to a nearby village one time and looked at what we were doing. I can tell you that, in principle, it's difficult. We could start reforming the village at least from the major cities of the areas. But even in my village of Bortnichi, which is in the middle of the city of Kiev, I can tell you that those who want to produce don't even get gas. Well, it's just a nightmare! What do we want to wait for from the peasants who are in?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u160	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Lechchenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u161	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro "Unfortunate Ukrainian village, you're my pain! No one today needs you to be prosperous, wealthy, developed. Today’s bourgeois authorities and bourgeoisies around power see it as a source of gain. As a result, there is no national agrarian policy in Ukraine. It's just anti-national. It's not created in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics or even in an agrarian government block, it's just the kind of policy that these organs serve. It is created in the International Monetary Fund of other political and financial circles in the West. Main performers are Minfin and Mineconomy, government management, the presidential majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. My words a year ago to Janukovich Viktor Fedorovich that the government should return face to the village and agriculture, unfortunately they did not find support. The most important thing for the government is to turn the land into a commodity, and then they say they're going to invest in mortgage lending. This is a willful deception on the part of the people of Ukraine. It's going to be the same thing as government property, the same equal terms. The goal is to take the land to the peasants. We, the Ukrainian national deputies, should by no means allow the trade in land. The mortgage is a mechanism of concentration of land in the hands of a group of passersby mechanics, it's against the people. In pursuit of a basic goal, all temporary governments, including today’s, have fallen and rolled down the village and agriculture. Laws are enforced only by those who are advantageous to the rich. Who asked the peasant what forms of farming in the village would be introduced? It's all about force. The results are well known: a damaged material and technical base, bare ribs of animal housing, worn-out technology, a shortage of headquarters, wild fields once fertile, broken social spheres, roads, moneylessness, unemployment, population degradation, and loss of food security. Disgracing and aging in the white world by bread. Last January, there were parliamentary hearings on the progress of reforms and measures to improve the situation in the countryside. The decree of the Supreme Council has not been enforced by the government. The hearing was forgotten. Today’s Government Day will end in a similar way — a branch will be set up and all. With this bourgeois power, the village will not be better off, because the main goal remains to take the land away from the peasants. The peasant agrarian issue can only be settled in favor of the people of Ukraine by the national Soviet authorities. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of the draft decree, because there are components that are a continuation of destructive agrarian politics in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The time we spent with you to discuss this question is over. Now, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm going to ask you to sum it up. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine for the agricultural and industrial complex. I'll be there in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Today’s interested, emotional, and even painful discussion of the problem has clearly shown that the remaining principle of supporting the village and agriculture has exhausted itself. There's no such thing as miracles. Over the past 10 years, the state support for the APC has decreased by nine times, and this has been discussed today. The government budget share of agricultural expenditure fell from 34 percent in the 1990s to 2 percent in 1996-2001. The fracture only started last year when funding increased by 2.5 times, and the share of expenditure reached 4.5 percent. But that's not enough. So the agricultural sector has the least investment attraction. And even now, there's not going to be a 20th share of the capital investment in the village, even though there should be a third. The other one. The main thing is what we talked about today. The main task of the State is to make the village attractive, both economically and socially. And that's what the MPs were especially talking about today. This will facilitate the adoption of a law on the basic principles of public agrarian policy, which is approved by a professional committee and prepared for consideration in a session hall. And what the MPs have talked about today, and I am grateful for this today, for the adoption of the Basic Law on budgetary support for the APC, which has long established the principles of State support for the development of agri-complex and the development of rural settlement networks, pricing policies, the functioning of agrarian commodity markets, and so on. For days he will be in the hall for the third reading. I thank you, taking this opportunity, the members of the Supreme Council of all factions for working on it until the third reading. And we very much hope that he will be supported in this room. Third. Today, there are changes to legislation in the introduction of a special tax regime in agriculture. Because in our last year, we have laws that determine tax policy. In accordance with this law, including VAT, 10 percent of the premium is paid, but it remains at the disposal of the farmer if he invests in production. Four. We also ask for your support in resolving the problem of pension insurance for workers in the rural sector. You know, this year, we've kept an active order of fixed agricultural taxes for 2004. But pension reform should also apply to villages. It is therefore proposed that a progressive system be introduced, over six years, to increase insurance premiums for compulsory pension insurance to the level of applicable standards by introducing appropriate compensations from the State Budget. As stipulated by the Pension Reform Act. Such suggestions have already been processed and will be in the session room in the near future. We worked with the people’s deputies. Which is the most important in this topic, by the way, also to be deputized by all factions. Next. We need a full legislative settlement of land issues, and this has been said very sharply today in the last speech by the Head of the committee of colleague Leschchenk. Projects that are appropriate, including from the deputies, we thank the bill MPs for their approval by the Supreme Council's profile committee. They'll allow you to create a reliable system and social protection and finance a mortgage-based sector. And this is a major question for the agricultural producer and our peasants. By the end of the current session, the government is also proposing to consider draft laws on the Earth cadastre, the state registration of real estate rights among others on the profile committee of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, and who are also ready to be considered on the Supreme Council in the session hall. Fifth. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay particular attention to you. We need to amend the budget code, unlock the budget code. In the area of solidarity financing, central and regional budgets. Today, regional budgets are unable to help the village because of the budget code. And this is proposed today in the decision, and we support it. This is not the case when the center allocates fifty times more than the region. In the middle of the Nineties, and you said that today, it would be comparable. The funding was solid. And it was, of course, much bigger. Such proposals in the draft regulation, I stress once again, are and we support them. And one more question. He was also spoken of many times today and also painfully. In keeping with Ukraine's prospects for membership in the global world trade union, I will point out that it is the State itself that must guarantee the competitiveness of the agro-industry sector under new economic conditions. To this end, the regulation provides for a substantial increase in financial support for the sector in the next year’s state and district budgets in order to reach nearly seven billion dollars, as envisaged by the relevant agreements. These costs will be aimed at stabilizing livestock, supporting the internal market and a cost-effective price for farmers, producing crops, especially food grains, technical updating and implementing effective financial instruments, such as short- and long-term loans, crop insurance, which we still don't have, etc. All of these measures, which are envisaged by the draft decision, we hope that a large group of national deputies from all the factions have been working on it, and they express this expectation that these measures will allow for increased profitability of the sector, an increase in wages, which has been discussed in every speech today, and solve the problems of social reconfiguration of the village. Thanks, colleagues, and the government are asking for support for a decision that has been taken together by the agrarian bloc of government and by the national deputies of all factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-11-m0.u164	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, we will take stock of the Government's Day, which was dedicated to meeting the requirements of legislation on the promotion of agro-industrial production and the priority of rural development in Ukraine in 2004 and the existence of effective mechanisms for their development in the future. I think, my fellow Members, that each of you will agree that we have really spent time today, in spite of a rather busy schedule of work, especially during this sessional week, to discuss this issue. I think you'll agree that the discussion was really business and constructive, and each of the speakers and noted that both in the minister's report and in the answers to the questions that were being answered, he clearly and clearly spoke about the problems that are in the country, and in the co-reports of the committee of profile, and in each of the national deputies, whether it was the factions, or the people's MPs who participated in the discussion of today's issue, really, first of all, spoke with knowledge of the matter that we were considering, secondly, not only about the problems that exist in our agricultural complex, but also made specific proposals, the wish that we had the village get the prosperity that it deserves. Moreover, many of you, especially farm workers, know a well - known saying when there are a couple of raindrops in mine, as they say about agronomists that we don’t really need them. And we're going to hope that those rains in my mine have happened, so we have good crop species in all situations, there are good kinds of things to do with the executive power, and that's the most important problem, we're going to achieve law enforcement. Because once again, I would like to point out that today we have been looking at compliance with the requirements of legislation, that we have talked to you about what is already in place, about the legislation that should be in place, and what else we need to do to develop this legislation in order that we, in the richest villages, in the best, more faithful countries of Europe, have much less problems and could provide the people of our country with our own bread, not lend their eyes to Sirca and not stretch our hands abroad without strengthening their products. So I think we haven't wasted, I repeat, much time to discuss this problem. And we now have every reason to support the draft ruling, which, as the rapporteurs and speakers have said today, has probably been prepared as none of the previous rulings that have actually found a common language and representatives of the government, and the representatives of the profiling committee that prepared this decision. That's why I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution: "To meet the requirements of legislation on the promotion of agro-industrial production and the priority of rural social development in Ukraine in 2004 and to develop effective mechanisms for their development for the future." Bill number 5460. The decree is voted on as a basis and as a whole. For -246. Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, let us wish the Cabinet of Ministers that when we listen to their information about the implementation of this decree in January of the following year, we have more hope and more prospects. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communists - 0, Social Democratic Party - 26, "Trudova Ukraine" - 26, Socialists - 19, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The People's Government" - 15, "The Center" - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "The Agrarian Party - 15, NDP - 12, "The People's Choice" - 13, "The Postfaction" - 8. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The opening of the evening session at 4 p.m.
