ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-10-1.u1	According to Article 16, the president has been informed about changes in human affairs. Congress. From the Group of Congress: Helga Vala Helgadóttir, who is the head of the welfare committee, will replace the Goddjörg of S. Brjánsson of Gün, and Logi Einar Einar Einar Einar Einarsson will be a substitute for Albertína the Friðbjörg of Elíasdóttir. The Guðjón S. of Brjánsson will take place as the head of the Environment and Transport Committee instead of the Helga Vög Helgadóttir. In the Board of Directors and Controls Committee, Guðmundur and Andri Thorsson will replace Helga Vala Helgadóttir, whose Godnaður S. Brjánsson will be a substitute. At the same time, the daughter of Oddný G. Harðardóttir will sit with Albertína the Friðbjörg of Elíasdóttir as the deputy of the Foreign Affairs Committee. There has also been a report of a change in the Parliament's committees of Pirates: Thorhld Sunna Ævarsdóttir will be taken as the head of the administration and monitoring committee in place of Jón Þór Ólafsson, who will be a substitute. Jón Þór Ólafsson takes his seat as the lead in a professional committee rather than the Ævarsdóttir Orvardótir, who becomes an assistant. Finally, Jón Þór Ólafsson will take his place as an assistant to the Foreign Affairs Committee instead of Thorfjörður Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-10-1.u2	Prominent prime minister on behalf of the government, as stated in Article 62. Conferences, and discussions about it, will be on Wednesday, September 11, and will begin at 6: 00 p.m. 6:30. Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. Passing takes three, eight minutes, five minutes, and four minutes, but prime minister has 16 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-10-1.u3	Relations have to be searched from the council, i.e. 4 mg. Section 3. Congress, which includes the seat of the council members, is that they are next to the hall and are drawn to one another. If you don't object, look at these variations approved. Class presidents have, with confidence that this would be approved, as these seats are drawn. So Halldóra Mogensen goes to his seat 2, Birgir Ármannsson of Aarnar 7, Þór Þórsson, site 8 Guðmundur Inn Kristinsson, number 13, Gunnarsdóttir Olnsdordótttsdóttir, 22, Gónu Bragi Sveinsson, number 23, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardydrótts, 44, and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, seat 45. In addition, there has been a agreement on what things should take place before the wind. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land so that she can have a seat that is especially convenient for her. Gets Inga Sæland Place No. 6th
