ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u2	A respectable president. I come up here to ask the highest. The prime minister whether the government intends to allow continued big fishing this year. With big whales I mean fishing on long-eared; while 844 whales of that kind have been caught by the company Hval Hf. Here we fished for long periods of time, and in the summer of 2009, ten years ago, commercialism began. In 2018, it was the last year of a five - year period that had been given out of government to fish for long periods of time. If the hunting continues from this whaling stock at the coming summer, the government will have to issue a new fishing permit and will no later be in the summer's beginning. V.E.G. Last year, the prime minister, both in the media and in the General Assembly, said that the decision to distribute new whales would not be published until the assessment of environmental impact, animal protection grounds, social influence, and impact on the Icelandic economy had been made. Last week, Iceland's High School of Economics released a report on the national impact of whale fishing. Here it is, the good report. It is, in fact, there. concluded that whaling does not harm the Icelandic economy. I'm not going to discuss that report any more here and now, but point out that it has already raised an argument. There is a difference of opinion about whaling in society, including has left movement ◯ green supply, category at the top. As president of the United States, prime minister firmly opposed whale hunting with Iceland officials. In the controversies of the category since the fall of 2015, the President's permission includes: ▪ Fishing is the means by which inhuman fishing methods are used to maintain the interests of a small group of developers. A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Will the government again issue new fishing permits and salutations to hunt long-time in Iceland's jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In fact, the release of a whale fishing company is under the marine outlet and agricultural minister, which is also answered, but I shall gladly review where this case is going to be. Hv. A senator correctly quoted me as I pointed out the need for us to meet the impact of whale fishing on the basis of sustainability before making a new decision. I think it's normal and professional to do that. There is a very different view among the members of the government, as well as those of the General Assembly, in whaling, but not specifically in a government contract. There was no political decision thereafter. Rather, we had to make this assessment our primary concern. What has been done in this regard is that the National Institute of Marine Research has provided a report on the status of whale strains in Iceland and has then returned its report to the National Economic Institute for Marine and Agriculture Ministers. As we have seen, both in a whale. Councilman and others, have identified the report as well as the basis for the stock size, economic impact, and whether we adequately consider the coverage of a report by the Economic Institute. On that basis, a new decision will be based. And because of what? A senator asks if the decision has been made, so to speak. A senator's decision has not been made. It must be based on these grounds. But I'd like to say, and it's not really the first time I'm saying that I think the tools the government has to measure what I'd like to call self-sustaining certain resources, whether they're fishing from fish stocks or using energy sources -- I think they're still short-finished. I can discuss it further in later years in my reply, e.g. how I think they're embarrassed when it comes to using energy resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u4	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I'm actually referring to exactly what I expect to the highest. The prime minister came to his senses. I'm fully aware of what the Ministry is doing to the jury, but I'm also aware of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and her party is in charge of this government and has had a clear and clear view of whaling in Iceland. In fact, I think there's more to the animal protection policy as such. Last summer, one person was fishing. Actually, the nation is almost split. Now the question is this, and I'm satisfied with one answer: Will the highest. Prime Minister and her company at some point accept the continued version of a new whale evasion this summer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u5	Mr. President. I can give you what? A senator's answer is the same as I have previously given to others why. Councilmen. The answer is that this is not part of a government contract. The three groups have a different view of this matter and the way we have chosen to go is to base our decision on as professionally as possible. I mentioned earlier that although governments are not equipped with machines, I often have been used by resources. Let me give you one example. In a frame plan, we expect sustainable use of resources to be assessed by environmental factors, economic factors and social factors. In fact, at the last session of the General Assembly on a Framework Program, we were recognized as having no means to evaluate social effects. Perhaps we are faced in some way by evaluating the environmental impacts of stock and animal protection in some way when it comes to hunting times, but primarily by stock size and by our appreciation for these species to be at risk and by the economic impacts that may be easier to evaluate. [[The president calls.]] However, a new decision has not been made, for we will better review the available data and see if there are any reasons to draw further data to base the decision on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u6	President. The Iceland Medical Association yesterday introduced the results of an exploratory study among its members on the condition and condition of the profession. First, it should be noted that participation, age and gender distribution was very good, but this only makes the results even more dramatic. Over 30% of doctors in Iceland are at work for over 60 hours a week, and 4% work over 80 hours a week. Though they work every day of the week, it is 12 hours a day. The effects of prolonged stress on judgment are well - known. We're missing details, we're getting worse, we're making mistakes. I'm not saying that these 30% of doctors are making mistakes, but the risk is certainly higher in them than in others. Another factor to consider when considering the results of this study is that there is a possibility that there will be a loss of job activity. The responsibility of doctors is great, and the pressures are constant. Added to that is excessive work time, and you ask when your defenses are broken. Research has also shown that physicians work less hours at work reduce days of illness with the potential benefits for health management. My question to the highest. Healthcare Minister is, how's the highest possible. Ministers to respond to this information and what action must be taken in order to ensure health care in Iceland without endangering staff health care? Remember, too, that we may know that new generations of doctors are not quite as ready to work these long shifts as the previous generations. It's obvious there's some kind of change to come into.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The study will be done in detail on medical days as far as I understand it, and it has not been available, so there really is no more than what has been presented in the media, and I have been able to get to know myself as far as possible. A senator has done so. For this reason, I can only respond in a very general way. First, I'd like to say that what is presented here is of course a concern, but at the same time, we have to be careful that there is a general challenge to the health - care industry for decades and that has actually been a global challenge. In fact, our sights have focused primarily on nursing in the capital area but also on health care and family medicine outside the country. A little depends on whether we are talking about a country or a capital area which is the main challenge in the man - made process. A senator asked about it. However, I would like to make it clear that the working environment of doctors and other health care professionals is, of course, responsible for their own health care institutions and caregivers where the people work. There is something that those institutions must look to. With new health policies, we also look for ways that each institution is responsible for the success and quality of the service there is. But so they're also involved, I expect to meet with the president of Iceland's Medical Association just over the next few days, based on a number of issues, but I assume that this case will also be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u8	President. I appreciate the answers. It is good to know that the survey will be examined in more detail. But this was just a bit striking and linked in all discussions about the shortness of work week, which I'd like to say is certainly not only on the hands of social and child - care ministers but also on health issues, especially when we look at how much cold work there has been. It would be interesting to know if the highest. A health minister agrees with me in terms of health issues, that we need to consider shortening the workweek. But it would also be interesting to hear from the highest level. A minister as to whether this is a matter of ensuring financial support so that health care professionals can work within the medical system without working all over to make ends meet and whether we look for ways to solve the problem of design. I know we'll talk about it further in special discussions with a part-sized surgeon on the emergency crisis of the Land Hospital. Are we willing to solve the manipulative problem by adding extra funds and raising pay, for example? Nurses and medical staff and others who do not plan to do this work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u9	A respectable president. I want to know in my answer that this week I will send a letter to every health center in the country, asking for a response to certain proposals and ideas intended to improve the working environment of nurses, and by itself a health care provider. These suggestions apply to general employment, as it were, i.e. Other than standard labour agreements involved in flexibility in the work environment, monitoring pressure, etc. I'll share any concern that might be expressed at any moment. A senator who believes that thebbreviated week of work is a big public health issue. I think we're all supposed to go there, not just for health care professionals, but for the whole nation. I also want to know that there is, of course, special pressures that doctors face that work hard at part - time. There is likely to be something better involved in the overall data on the reasons for the pressures involved. A senator points out in his inquiry. [[The president calls.]] Likely, we will find a clearer answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u10	Mr. President. A host of health - care services in a group where Iceland and I are now having little to do with ourselves, whether it is using existing innovation and technology or with regard to the health - care organization itself. There is no need for a wide variety of benefits for the local population to use specialized health care services in urban areas with such technology to mention how positive it would be for the more widely distributed communities to use such techniques and a new approach to health care providers, experts who could look after both their immediate and faraway environments in this way. I have issued a request for a special discussion with the highest degree. Health Minister for this case group, but I would like to steal now and ask specifically about the ministry's investment in equipment for long - term health care in the South and East, which was taken in less than a year ago. In particular, then, a seminar at the local community was welcomed that both the East Health Organization and the South Health Organization had obtained equipment for use in eight places in these health - care districts. The money was bought for the welfare Department's financial resources. Of the relevant health institutions, normal expectations for the new technologies and changes in approach were high. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is this equipment being used in less than a year? How has this proved to be so? And what kind of changes, if any, have been made to the health - care system in connection with the new development of remote health care? Have the inhabitants of the health care system benefited from that investment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's job is to ask a question that would help me get more information. She asks about an investment in a certain service. I can say, however, that we see an enormous number of parishions in this, all of which are called telecommunications. I think it's important for all of us to talk about the present service, which is improved by increasing technology, i.e. that is, not really, a new service, but a ministry that becomes even more accessible, regardless of the location. In this way, we are especially looking at the aspects of health care support and an increase in the emphasis on psychological and mental health care in the forward line of health care. Hv. A senator specifically asked about the South and the East and mentioned in this regard a village monasteries. I recently received, I think it was before a year's convention, October or November, a report where all these parties had joined together on the basis of our main application for distant health care. The result was that the Akureyri Hospital was to be a key figure in organizing and building distant health services throughout the country. We will also look to special funding through a regional program. In a structured program, earmarked money is used to build up and improve distant health care. I just want to say in this discussion that I would like to be granted a request for a special discussion on these matters, where you can better prepare and examine the details and statistics in this case so that there is more to my answer than there is here in an unpublished question period. But it's clear that there's a lot of parishion here, and we're just starting to take advantage of that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u12	Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is quite true that this is not necessarily the information that a minister has on his hands with little or no notice, but I can inform her that I don't think they are in use. There are a number of reasons. This may be a warning bell for us in that great case because it would be very bad if we were to go along a way that we know a bit well, which is to rush into investments and buy things without having set exactly down our policy. How will we train our health - care providers to use this as well as the vital addition at the highest level? A minister mention? Does the study really need to take into consideration? So, what's the payment system gonna be like? What will motivate them to use that service? What are we really going to get out of our system? I'm glad that a minister is going to bring information and be well armed in a special discussion of that matter. I don't think there's only an important growth wand for Icelandic health care, but it's just one of the equipment we need to fix and be on the lead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u13	A respectable president. I'll take this information to the Ministry and we'll review it. With respect to policy, because of what. A senator speaks of it, I refer to the report I mentioned earlier. I think there's good reason to point. Senator on the report, I assume it's available on the Ministry Homepage. But because of him. A senator in particular asks about the motivation to use the ministry, so we expect health policy to be the state of the state that buyers of the ministry have ideas of what service we want to buy. Of course, that is true of prolonged health care, such as other services. And if we are to live up to the name of health care that people can benefit from, not just regardless of their economic situation, but regardless of their estate, we must build that kind of motivation into that system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Prime Minister on the ideas of the government and the administrative board on the pressures of road taxes on the public of the country. Now the agreements are free, and negotiations with the labour market parties are turned away. Yesterday was shown in a case of the highest order. Prime Minister that the government was going to suggest a discussion over the next few days on the decline of taxes at the same time as the proposed taxation in the form of road taxes on the entire population regardless of the economy. We are just as clever as it is to believe that those who can be paid, but those who favor liberalism in politics are more likely to pay for those who use it. Where there's a platoon. The prime minister has been largely classed as a left class, which speaks for an increased equation, and where the policy allows to detect strong opposition to road tax pressures, I would like to ask the highest level. Whether her party is in agreement with the board's recommendations for the pressures of road taxes on the public regardless of the economy. I would also like to ask if this new tax system has been discussed with the labour market partners and if intelligence was the economic influence of this new tax system will have on the public in the country, especially the chemical memory in which there is a flat tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u15	Mr. President. Hv. The senator discussed some of the basics of the tax system. I can agree with that with what. A senator that I believe the income tax system is not only a government fund system but also a income balance system. Hv. A senator took me up to the ideas and suggestions for changing the income tax system, and they are just about to increase the balance of the income tax system and thus meet low income groups and lower intermediate groups. We completed a meeting at noon with the labour market, where we crossed the foundations of the initiatives we are now working on. I'm also part of a green category where we maintain the ideologies that the population of the population and that we could say the fuel and oil expenditure was such a tax base so far in our transport system. Therefore, we have been able to ensure that those who drive vehicles using environmental energy, such as electricity, will enjoy special elements. Now, however, there are changes in these costs, so I view the debate over expenses as twofold. On the one hand, how we're going to keep the financing system in the long run. The Minister of Transport has set down a group that examines how to finance long - term transport systems, including Norway, where road costs have certainly been collected and used to transfer transport to environmental transport. It is interesting to see that the charges surrounding Oslo have been reduced to 70% in the construction of public transport. However, the task we know is that within the council there is a transport program where contributions are being made for building up, as shown in a government contract, where there have been ideas on whether they can make further progress. I'm just gonna say that I'm open to looking at the change in financing, but there's still no direct suggestions in that field. [[The president calls.]] It is far too early, then, to tell what they will look like and, as a result, far too soon to discuss it with the labour market partners as well. A senator asks about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister is eager for these answers. In Iceland, income costs are much less than remuneration, and there's a chance that you can get more in that box. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if there is a plan in her government to seek funding from the broad pies before taxation is taken into the public regardless of the economy and ability of road taxes. The energy exchange is a fact, but the target charges due to reduced revenues are probably not considered until March, according to current environmental and transport information, so we're not talking about this. It's not time to discuss it, but since there's just been a talk about major climate initiatives, I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Prime Minister how she likes the ideas that exist today that only 7% of the necessary contribution in the city line is in the ideas of more things, i.e. to put 800 million in the next five years, while the annual need is 2.25 billion, in the city line each year. And how does she feel about not placing extra money in public transportation all over the country that is so upset? That's what I'd think is part of this climate crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u17	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked many questions. I can be happy with it because it so happens that in the governments I've been running, the capital tax has been raised. First it was done in 2009,2013, and then it was done again last year. So I figure there's some correlation between that, which is why. The senator must celebrate. However, there is good reason to compare the capital tax system we have here and anywhere else in the North, where we have gone different ways. Tacrolimus is lower in Iceland than elsewhere, but there is also much lower access if we look, for example, at the same time. to Norway, where taxes are higher than those of a far greater population, they distinguish between different types of capital incomes. I think it's an interesting discussion for the council. Hv. A member of the council discussed charges and city lines. The urban planning of the state is already being financed by a transport program of 300 million. K. During 2019 and 500 million years. K. in 2020. It is not expected in the country society's ideas in the capital area that projects will begin until 2021, and the State's declaration of will and the local community in the capital area are expected to work together on this project, and that we will be able to finance it even if the project has not been negotiated for a final change in how the project will be financed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have to say, I feel like I'm asking why. For the discussion, a senator conducts the conversation with a clear will. [[The president calls.]] I can make you happy. A senator by having a member of a rural society in the capital area have the next meeting on that assignment tomorrow, so it works well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u18	The president has to ask for the highest order. Minister and minister. In due course, members of the Parliament will be discussed on the road and transport agenda, not when the talk is over. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on policy and policy support. Many government agencies come to the seminary in one way or another, and the State has many supports for the job. But I have often felt that there is little or no overall view of the government on what route it is or why it wants to support the agriculture. When the article somehow passes over from one piece to another. I'd like to give you an example. The state is in the Food Institute, with high costs of animal doctors and experts in many areas. It generates a standard and maintains control. It can be claimed to provide heavy management for the agriculture economy, and some of its measures are also causing high costs for production and processing. Most people are happy with the rigid rules and maintenance in the end, and the conclusion is that in many ways we are far better than other nations in very important areas, and we know that we can do better. But what happens next? Without much notice and with no apparent concern, let alone the opportunity to perform something, is opened for a large import, e.g. has meat from countries where we know that maintenance and caution are not maintained to the same degree as here. Especially is it true that prominent doctors in this country say that antibiotic resistance is one of mankind's greatest public health problems. They also believe that the import of raw meat is a great help in disrupting our fine standing, which is not least due to the State's involvement through MAST. What, though, if we receive these problems from other countries that have not been mindful of these things? At times, it has been necessary to take extreme measures to achieve a good standing. Was it mere nonsense, or was it a mental determination of an institution that lives in his own world without guidance? There could be many more factors, such as the Contestant, regional, and economic issues. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether she can agree with me that it is like a complete lack of vision. Is she willing to work to create it and then give the political leadership needed to draw to the goal of this multitude of rulers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I don't know what to say about the arrangements of the Food Agency, but it's all right, I like to get all the requests myself, I'm happy to get this inquiry. I will not, however, comment on the arrangements made by the Food Organization, for I do not know them. But as for the big movie as it comes to a vision of food production in Iceland, I can say with severity. A senator says that we have, first of all, enormous value in our food production, either in agriculture or in the fishing field. I believe the value of these things will increase even more. Why do I say that? I think there's a climate problem in there. We are to consider the carbon lines of food that we bring into the land and how we can contribute to the greater use of less carbon - based foods. Of course, this has to do with what happened. A senator mentioned the import of food. We are also to watch food production based on public health views. We know that the high risks ahead of us when it comes to health care are about human health, lifestyle disease, and what we are eating and how we are acting. There we also have tremendous valuables that we can further increase by promoting domestic food production. I'd like to look at the food policy for Iceland, as a marine eco-gri-gri-gri-ef, so that we're taking all these views into consideration, we're also looking for innovation in food production and making more valuables from the original products that we're getting from domestic agriculture and domestic seas, and we're using the much knowledge we have in innovation and research to make more valuables. I also want to see an increasing level of food education, because I think that we have countless opportunities when it comes to building food production in Iceland and celebrating all the support we get to work on that project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers and welcomes her view of farming. But this is exactly what I was saying: We always say, but it's as if it's not in the process, except for a very vague and very misleading message that farmers receive. For example, at times they may need to respond. Now there is an increased import of meat products. The cattle are being gnated to respond to an increase in competition, but it will take 20 years. This is because we are going a very careful way to which the Food Institute decides. It is not possible, however, to try to control institutions or to use your fingers in the way they make decisions. But we need a full view of where we're going and we're going to work accordingly. I sometimes think it's like Lísa's í Undraland, and I asked where she was going, but since she did not know where she was going and didn't care where she went. [[The president calls.]] The danger is we're just gonna end up somewhere. That's not a good ending.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u22	Mr. President. I'm just fascinated by this last illustration and I hope I'm not the queen of hearts or the queen of spades or whatever it was that all the other characters in Lisa, Wonderland, were one of my favorite stories when I was a child. But we're preparing these policies, and I've mentioned the preparation now being done by a marine- and agricultural minister that's trying to map the situation when it comes to domestic food production, not just production, but consumption as well. We need to consider just how much of what we consume in our own food. I would also like to mention policy in public shopping, which is intended to reduce carbon footprints due to government food consumption. I'd like to mention food waste as well. I visited a travel service company in South America last week. They have reduced food waste in their business by 57% for each guest. This is what I love about it, seeing a private driver step forward and taking the lead in such a course. This will show me how much opportunity we have. I only mentioned several cases earlier that I thought should be involved in this project, but it has to do with industry, such as tourism, and has to do with the local language. A senator mentioned. [[The president calls.]] I think this should be our project in the near future, especially because of the climate situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u23	Mr. President. Life is saltfish, the poet said so memorable. But life is not just a saltfish for us. We don't want to live in a plant. We want to enjoy art and culture. The decision made by the Bank of Iceland to preconceive certain arts owned by the bank has attracted much attention and discussion. The decision has been severely condemned by various factors, including by the U.S. artistic Alliance, which describes its surprising decision in the Federal Bank and speaks of the strange temporal mismanagement of censoring art in this way. I'm bound to obey to receive the response of the bank's senior officer, so I ask the highest officer. Prime Minister: What is the highest attitude? Minister to the controversial decision of the Council Bank, which has been so severely condemned, including of Icelandic artists' alliance as I could? On the one hand: Since the bank seems impossible to take this art collection, which is quite large in interest of interest, and to show respect for artists and their work, does a minister agree with the view that the bank has developed, would it be pleased to hand over the Iceland's art collection?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u24	Mr. President. To me, this case is two-way, and maybe three-way with a question or two. Senator. First of all, I am a great spokesman for artistic freedom, thinking that we should never compromise artistic freedom. That's a basic point in my mind. Second, the news of an art transfer within Iceland's Secret Bank is that it has the art of that art at the location where it was and in the context it had an impact on the well - being of employees. In that case, I feel that it is the secret ingredient of the National Institute, the Secret Bank, to ensure that art is shown in the space where it does not have the effect of being placed in an uncomfortable relationship for the employees. I understand that art can be promoted, and I think it is important that the government agencies treat their employees with dignity and due consideration, but at the same time I strongly object to the fact that art that shows nakedness, or whatever it is, or political messages, we can take a Hypothetian example of political messages - I have one such piece on my wall. I'm sure that's what helps, but it's okay, and they just don't come back to my house. Of course, in a government institution or in a public workplace, it is important that employees be shown a certain degree of courtesy. Hv. A senator asks: Should the Secret Bank hand over to the National Gallery of Art? I don't know any better than the Navy's got a good place in its own art collection. They're going to have their work on a night of gathering, where I'll be their guest on February 8, and no doubt they'll be able to arrange a museum for it. But I feel that the decisions made by the institution are important to me by both views I traced earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention that the debate has learned about works by Blöndalur that we enjoy Gunnlaugur's work at the General House. Of course, this is particularly a picture of his 1851 national meeting in the lobby of the Assembly Hall, where he clearly highlights the outstanding leadership of the outstanding son of Jón Sigurðsson, at that very moment, a crucial moment in the history of the nation. I know every member of the film, two of every county, and if you don't mind me telling you in my personal notes that I sometimes get involved in being a descendant of one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u26	Mr. President. It is important that we be well acquainted with our cultural resources. It is important that we fulfill our laws, that public institutions should be exemplary when it comes to starting the arts in glory and respect. Because of what? A senator mentions this beautiful piece of the meeting on the floor below, except that the project is beautiful, to educate the young generation when I have the opportunity to do so. I'm sorry, but I'm rarely asked by the generals to receive school groups, and they take into account what I'm saying now, but then I use the job to discuss the history of gender equality in Iceland, because if I can remember correctly, there are only men in the picture. Thus, the work is not only beautiful but also powerful evidence of historical evolution. But the big thing about this is that it is important to preserve artistic freedom. It is also important that we show affection for one another and act on it, while showing respect that art is all kinds of things and that it manifests all kinds of views and so it should be. [[The president calls.]] That's why we can't lose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u27	President. In accordance with the convention arrangement, the president has not observed his details, which may not be surprising when the purpose of the matter to be presented is to break a council in a shameful way. Maybe we could. Not expected President Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to be a fair president. Yet, we could not expect anyone as forward as we have seen from the president in recent times. Yet, in recent years the president has shown that he does not accept laws, even when it comes to national interests, nor is he just when he wants to achieve his goals. Who, though, could have suspected that he would insist that the lawgiver disrespected the laws that apply to the council itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u28	Mr. President. I'm sorry to have to say this, but I'm sure it's interesting to find that President's humble progress in this matter. I'm going to let myself draw attention to the fact that we were. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has not received any information on the case at the Presidency Committee. One day, we read in the magazines that the president is going to employ the phrases of a retrospective law to prove his will in the matter. Another day, we read the highest. The president intends to use a program in Congress to guide people on a special prime committee to carry out his own decision that he himself does not act out because of his inadequacy. [[The president calls.]] I am surprised at these tactics and also called attention to the fact that we have not received protests in this trial all but to the privilege of expressing ourselves to the prime committees and the Governing Body.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u29	Mr. President. It's true what's happened here. We have not received any information or have had any access to discussing how the case should unfold. Yet, the end of this matter has been determined. In fact, the decision has been made to set up a time line that tells us that the case should be completed in April, if I remember correctly. It's nothing but abuse of power to me. I feel very uncomfortable standing here, but that's all I can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u30	V.E.G. President. Now Pink is shocked. This is a seminary, and as far as I'm concerned, there's no warrant for what's to be done here. According to stories where we've received no evidence on this, the highest is going. President hanging himself in 94 st. Congress, which I don't see quickly, can be used in any way. This is a misuse of power. However, according to Article 3, he will be able to select a new prime committee. Congress. If we do this, we'll have a 6. In, that new men can be chosen, but then the election was made invalid. Surely we must call for the Council to be held in Congress. We must call for law to be done. That's weird. I would like to hear the answers, if it proves that members of the council were investigated in order to see if they were qualified to discuss this matter or not, who conducted that investigation, on what grounds, by means of which law it was made, and by investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u31	Mr. President. Although only for the fact that we, these two independent non - group members, are kept completely in the dark with regard to all the contributions on the Presidency Committee and need to read in the media what is on the couch, as if to make the decision that a reserve subsidiary committee should be chosen to handle this matter - this we read in the papers - it is also surprising to look up at the highest level. After describing his inadequacy in this matter, the president is presented in the media, declaring that it is necessary to select a new prime committee that would have the sole purpose of directing the case to the Committee of the Nations. In other words, he is measuring out what an unorthodox prime committee must do. An incompetent president is giving instructions on what the name of Lotin is to be called. [[The president calls.]] We, these independent senators, have not received a single letter since December 18 of our work. All of this has happened later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u32	Mr. President. They're going to give it up to independence. The chairman of Congress drags himself into such an impasse? The same man who was about to drag the president of the Independence Party to national justice? No member of the Independence Party voted by any man, neither an independent nor a controversy, to a national court. If they agree with the abuse of power, on what road is the independence party like the people living here? I'm gonna say what. Councilmen of the Independence Party: do right, do not suffer wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u33	V.E.G. President. The present unfortunate event, the election of two new vice presidents, has set in motion. As far as you're concerned, you're going to use 94. Congress contracts to move the case forward. Six. According to Congress, the election of presidents and vice presidents should apply for the entire ideal period and if it should be changed, request and request should be made by a greater number of members of Congress. Obviously it hasn't shown up, since men became quite tired of this case, which was certainly not good. Then there is the use of 94 st. which so far has been used to do things other than step six. If so, you may also be aware that it has not been the will of the Lawgiver, for it has been 94rd. never was used in this way. I'm amazed at how this whole matter is being made, and I think it's repugnant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u34	As the U.S. Senate knows, a prime committee arrived before Christmas, requesting that the committee discuss the possible violations of six appointed senators on the Code for the General Assembly. The prime committee discussed the discussion at two meetings, December 15 and 17, which led to the conclusion of the president and then each of the vice presidents on the basis of 2 mg. 17th par. They would have to report the case on official recommendations. The committee then assigned the meeting on December 17, office of the Parliament to keep the case disappearing until the President's reputation was corrected. In addition, a prime committee has received another issue regarding possible violations of ethical principles for conduct related to the case. At the meeting of the presiding committee on January 14, this issue. told the president and all vice presidents of that matter. At the meeting of the presiding committee on January 14, this issue. In fact, the president's plan to propose to the council that special elections would be made to two or three vice presidents in addition to those who are already in charge and who will complete the procedure. The vice presidents declared support for President's proposal, all but one. The following day, on January 15, at a meeting with the chairman of a council meeting, the president reviewed the case and presented his proposal. There were no comments to the trial. After presidents and vice presidents reported on matters, it has been found that the main majority of members of the Parliament have expressed themselves in a way in the media and on community media that they can rightly question their objective in considering the matter. Therefore, the president has examined whether it is possible to obtain members of the council who are likely to qualify to accept it. There are few candidates, and on the basis of their observation, the president now suggests that at this meeting two new vice presidents, who will be 7th and 8th of the Council, will be appointed to take the two related protocols received by the prime committee. Thus, according to Article 94, the president suggests that there will be a variation, as permitted. Congress, to be removed from 3 mg. Section 3. about the number of vice presidents, as well as 1st. Section 6. for terms so that the General can temporarily select two new vice presidents to handle these protocols. I'd like to state that it is a unanimous position, both on the presiding committee and on the scene with members of Congress, to take the position of the prime committee in this respect as to the protocol for review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u35	V.E.G. President. As you can hear from the top words. He is now presenting, after expressing himself incompetent, two names of members of the Parliament, found after a thorough investigation that is not given how or on what basis. There is a possibility that in this hall there should be five or six members of the council who are not incompetent to take part in the handling of the case. I suppose, then, that if the vote as agreed, there will only be five or six votes in the voted out of an incompetent president to take on a certain task. I don't suppose that everyone else in the hall, according to President, certainly has been fully examined that he can or cannot take a stand on the matter, will do the same. It must be of interest to us if the vote is made to observe who votes, whether it's all incompetent or how it is. [[The president calls.]] I think that would be advice, my chief. The president, taking a brief break and reviewing this matter with the presidents and members of the council before continuing in that unfortunate situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u36	Mr. President. The Speaker apologized for six members of Congress without realizing what he was apologizing to each other. This he did in the December 3, issue of Awake! in which he called the nation's total destruction of the nation over the six. On this occasion, I ask the highest. President: Exactly what did I put into my mouth on this occasion that called for their condemnation and apology? Exactly what did I say that calls for the president of the Generals to apologize for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u37	President. Now, the president has clearly described his unforeigned plans in the trouble he himself has set up with his treatment from the beginning. Before a year ago, the president declared in a written statement that he was willing to have the law changed and then applied it over and over again to reach a certain conclusion. Someone has told him that it would not work out, and then he introduces another path that, rather, will not go on and is simply told out, almost funny if it wasn't sad because she's concerned with the honour of the council. It is about the fact that the council shows that it is capable of obeying its laws. He expects to overlook the political law and to use a provision designed to speed up the progress of a group of 57 or 60 incompetent members of Congress can select two members of Congress whom the president has made a legal choice to give the decision that the president has established in order to deliver. [[The president calls.]] This, a respectable president, is a black spot on the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u38	V.E.G. President. I went over the time when I feel that this is an arbitrary procedure. This is shown in Article 6. Congress that presidents and vice presidents should sit for the entire elected period, except for the request of a major body of senators. It's time to go to the top. The Speaker of the Council to use 94 st. which has never been used in this way, but by the spirit of the law, if you pass over it, the lawgiver has not expected to do so. I'm asking, "Is it okay for senators to have 94th? " is it used in this way? This case is now in complete chaos, and I wish there would be a recession at a conference, at least, if this is not retracted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u39	Mr. President. This is a laughing matter. The end of this matter here at the council is the most laughful of all. Mr. President will be told how a unanimous committee of prime committees was in all its decisions. An incompetent prime committee was all alone to decide this and to decide the other. He declares what these qualified, minor, secondary, or vice presidents of two men should do. He's telling them what to do. It's a laughing matter. He's already told them what their role should be. This reminds us of the national court case in terms of a political issue that is over the case, except for these players with their left green self-instruction party of Iceland, who, in fact, paid all votes against the charges held by political indiscriminately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u40	V.E.G. President. I come up here to make myself incompetent in this matter. I guess I'm one of the six members of the council who were supposed to qualify, but I'm incompetent here because I've already spoken of this alleged case that I and many others feel is finished. This case is over. When a prime committee described itself as incompetent in this matter, including the president of Generals, the matter was in my mind. Going to follow some trails to get it back together with the vote of two vice presidents is all that I can think of. I express my disapproval of having to be involved in this matter. I went to the council to make a country any good, but not to stand in such an arraignment over nothing but a defeat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u41	V.E.G. President. This matter is remarkable. I would like to ask members of the Parliament to wonder what will follow if it is true that 94 stregs can be used. Congress to get this sort of thing going. What, then, is next? Does this mean that the legal government has been changed? Can we next divide a group from a particular committee, a environmental committee, or a transport committee, or anything else, because members of the Parliament are struggling? Is that good? I think we should think about what's underneath here. That's the state of the court. For example, the president of the Generals has chosen to make an attempt to do so. I think we should think about whether this is what we want, and we'll also consider whether we're going to follow our rules now and defend our constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u42	Mr. President. I listened carefully to a word that was best heard. A president earlier specifically noted that, as a result of this case, the rules for review should be reviewed, i.e. Rules for the Committee of Moral Affairs and the Committee to Presidency. I ask, why do you want to do that? Why are these rules not being considered today? There are any reasons to review them, etc.? This only means one thing: We're going to follow, if you either watch, right? ... ina casethat doesn't improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u43	President. There's a possibility that the case the president is going to publish here is not in accordance with the law. But the president will overlook the law. He will receive a gift from them. [[Up front.]] He wants the General to give him an exception from the law so that he can continue his hopeless course. The problem is that the method the president puts up is not legal either. It doesn't pass the law. It's not actually a constitution. That's what President knows. He has been made aware of this by means of business, now the last verse to be received by a president this morning, which covered the legal aspect of the case. Many of these matters have not answered, others seem to be going past, for the President has shown it now, and sadly, that everything else must be replaced; fair, correct, even law, so that he can reach the conclusion he gives. I restate the request that the president interrupt this meeting so that the presidents can meet and discuss the matter before the president leads the General Assembly of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u44	V.E.G. President. I went over it earlier that this agreement is breaking page six. Parliamentary law. It is not yet requested by members of Congress to vote for a new Presidency Committee. That's the way it is. 94 st. should not be used for this event. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u45	Mr. President. Of course, this will be the most reasonable form of our political opposers, most of whom are in this room. Of course it does. This folly is to be crammed in spite of the obvious inability of the political opponents most of us are in here, and everyone is to be hurt by the treatment of the case and its releases, and the defamatory laws against which it is backed up. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u46	Mr. President. I don't think I have anything to fear with the Committee of Morals. I have not been guided by comments that hurt or hurt anyone. I haven't spoken a word of it to anyone. But the General President is calling on the General Assembly for such reproach and humiliation and self - reproach in his presidency. I'll express my sympathy for what's happened. The members of the Independence Party were to have allowed themselves to become involved in what they evidently are in. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u47	A respectable president. Although the politics are often difficult, I have endeavored to defend a particular basic prince, and as a result, I have often come to defend people of other categories, political opponents, even when they have been difficult. How sad it is to see what the General Assembly has to do with a few princes! To be honest, I thought there were more of them in the Independence Party than there really are. All of this is done to bring matters to the Committee of the Nations, a case that does not even hear under the committee according to the rules that apply to it. The panels show that the matter is not even at home, where the president of the II Parliamentis intends to tread it. [[Up front.]] No matter what comes out of this board of ethics, I'm not worried about that conclusion, as do others who have spoken before, but I feel sad to see how the President of the Council has led the council into these difficulties, which, unfortunately, are bound to be just the beginning of a growing problem. [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u48	V.E.G. President. Inversely, on a sunny day, it is a dark day, but in my mind, it is a very dark and dark day to have to vote on this unfortunate matter. But I do it to stand my pillow. I have to say, this reminds me a little bit of that when I was watching the national court at the time, when it was going on here. Then I watched it through television. I felt really bad about it, and I'm not feeling better today. So I'm very sad on this day. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u49	V.E.G. President. I just want to rephrase what I said earlier: We're going on a journey that obviously isn't right where the highest level is. The president has said that there are clearly rules to consider with regard to the Committee of Moral Affairs and the Presidency. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u50	V.E.G. President. It's sad. There's only one word for it. What's being done here will draw a fancy after itself, I would say, because this is the use of inconsistency in the force of votes that have nothing to do with democracy. This may suffer at the council later. Now the supreme example is set. President, it is possible for a more serious body of elders to vote for new committees or to vote for security if that is the case so that we would like to pass certain matters through. And now it is done. It's live with a government state. I must say, my fellow independents, this is not what I expected. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u51	The president has received one list of the names of Þóra and Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. Since there are no more claims than votes, I shall declare the court as the 7th vice president, no other appointments, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, and as the 8th vice president of Haraldur Benediktsson of Glaciethon for a temporary review of the protocols held before the Committee of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u52	A respectable president. Here comes one of the strange confusions of this matter, and there are many of them. President will report what two-knuckles. Congress officials should take on the role that he had set out for them and describe in the news a few days ago, saying, "Make the decision that the president wants in the matter. " These delegates were chosen in a way that no doubt has been previously seen in the history of the Generals. One of many that the president will answer is: "How did this happen? Who decided that it would be reasonable for the president to hire the members of the Generals to inquire about the views of the senators in order to then handle the two members of the council whom he has now appointed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u53	The president repeats that Steinunn Árnadóttir Aarnadótir is entitled to the 7th vice president of the Alleglais and Haraldur Benediktsson as the 8th vice president, temporarily in order to discuss the particular case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u54	V.E.G. President. A few years ago, it was reported in the news that there was a serious situation at the emergency department but that if there were enough answers to the rights of patients, there are now some laws that can be met. Therefore, you should have a conversation with the highest level. Health Minister for the situation as it is right now. Another factor has been repeated, subsidiary, and particularly the subsidiary of nurses as well as other members of the Land Hospital, but the lack of nurses and also the usefulness of any means that it is not possible to have all the divisions open. In other words, it is possible to make use of all the beds that could be used. A part of the surgeon general's work due to a serious position at the emergency department of the Land Hospital says that there is a need to improve the work environment of the staff. At the same time, the staff says that the employee is good. I find this rather interesting to the staff who just tells me that they're going to try to keep it going. They will continue to work under these circumstances. You can see that it is impossible to wonder whether working conditions in a land hospital will make it impossible for people to work there. I feel like it, like I said before, something pretty important. We all know how to do our best, but doing so can be difficult if we do not see that our circumstances will improve. It may be difficult to endure, but it is clear that such classes need to be improved, as well as in the health - care system, as far as possible. Only then can we get to work as pharmacists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, social workers, etc. Since the land hospital would like to work across different castes and in good cooperation. The report also shows that there is an urgent need to increase the responsibility of rural and district hospitals as well as the establishment of a special home service. So it will be interesting to have this discussion afterwards, and hopefully these factors will all come out. You see, there are many things to think about, such as. The number of tourists has made a tremendous difference in the operation of land hospitals. It can be said that managers and staff, especially in emergency departments, have long suggested that the safety of patients may be compromised in the absence of response. At the same time, we can also point out that the problem is not just a land hospital's problem. He's bigger than that, but he'll only be solved in cooperation with all parties, including Land Hospital and any other organisations involved there. The questions I've raised that I want to ask the highest. HCPs are that the surgeon general's assessment of the serious state of the emergency department shows that no patient's rights can be met by a number of legislation. What will a minister do to improve the patient's rights? It needs to be okay. What, then, does a minister see to it that he is able to do in caring for the needs of nurses at a land hospital? Has a minister wondered how this emergency problem - which I understand is not directly improving, slowly receding, as someone said - has long - term effects on patients and less on staff? Not to be overlooked. What are the solutions to a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A senator for bringing up this position and at the same time thanking you. A welfare committee that has also discussed the matter. I think that's exactly how the committee's supposed to function, i.e. taking into consideration issues in the community. The committee responded very quickly, so I've met some of them. A welfare committee and a discussion committee, but I'm sure it was the same thing here at the Senate Hall at a request. Senator. As a result of the discussion of the serious state of the emergency department, it would be appropriate to refer specifically to two important indications that came from the local surgeon's office in part handed down to the Ministry of Health. These tips quickly appeared in a Decemberal memo and then again in part - time circulation, with a two - fold increase in the number of nurses and a guarantee of professional care, as mentioned. I want to use this opportunity to guess, because of what I'm doing. In his query at a hospital hospital hospital for nursing, a senator may not say so, for the space for those who should have already graduated but are to solve or meet part of the graduation problem is much more a waiting space than a real space and are defined as such. As also noted in part - time camps, there has already been a great deal of work at the Ministry of Health to increase the number of nurses and find ways to ensure nurses. Last year, I introduced large initiatives in the development of nursing nurses that are now being prepared and the improvements that come to be done in the months that follow should change the situation to a land hospital. It refers first to using a new nursing home in Seltananes, which has 40 new nurses, and if things are going according to their schedule, they should be in full use in March/ April. At about the same time, a new 60 - space nursing home in Hafnarfnarfjörður is expected to be used. In fact, there is only one other facility for nursing, but in the autumn months it is planned to open a 99 - space nursing home on Plain Road in Reykjavík. So this is where about 140 new homes will be added this year. When a surgeon's assessment was made, about 120 people were waiting at a nursing hospital, of whom 53 were in wards designed for other activities, i.e. In the emergency room. Clearly, then, this 140 medical facility will meet both the needs of those waiting there and those still at home who are in need of a nursing home. It is also important to meet the needs of those waiting at home, for when all is lost, they would likely end up at a land hospital that is not a good option for those in need of a medical space, apart from being an extremely expensive alternative, as it were. In addition to this, further ideas are being developed to increase the number of nurses to make this increase even faster. It allows us to examine the temporary use of old Sunvings, as well as the development of nursing programs that were previously introduced last year. Other services that add to the so - called flow of people and patients around the Hospital and the Hospital will also be of great importance to ensure that all the Service Committees become as active and as active as possible. Hospital will open in April, and although there is no medical space there, it will greatly improve the opportunity to provide additional services to those in need of a land hospital service, e.g. To them that come out of the land, to them that are self-said, but need the service of the hospital. The growth of home care is very important and increases in money, 130 million, has been provided to remedy it. It is important to continue, but KPMG's 2018 report shows that Iceland spends less money in home nursing than the neighboring countries. The effects of these measures will lead to better access to the patient's rights in the emergency department and the entire hospital. Clearly, the design of a professional is essential to providing good and safe health care and special attention to these matters. The 2017 Icelandic nurses reported that 24% of working - age nurses engage in non - nurses. It is safe to assume that this problem is severe and will not improve without action. So I have already proposed measures for the Minister's Committee on conformity. There are actions that call for cooperation between recruitment and the current work and that are expected to meet its success. A respectable president. I have to take a break to answer questions. At the end of the discussion, a senator will arrive at their home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u56	Madam President. National Hospital, our pillar of health care, is on the lips of people, and the press frequently uses the media each week. Not only because of the brilliant work being done there, but because of the pressures and insecurity and failures that are regularly faced with full - time treatment and are no longer needed at this highest medical level. The hospital will not be able to accept treatment without vengeful treatments and thus perform its full security as an emergency clinic, a university hospital. This is exactly what the hospital's director told himself about in the media not long ago, that circumstances were sometimes so critical that patients could not be safe. The case already under investigation was reported by the surgeon at the critical stage, particularly in emergency care. Madam President. The difficulty in business and operations of the Hospital does not sound like a new report to the people of the land, but the image may be different today but often before. It's not a financial problem that's in the foreground for this time. It's much more of a tightening, overcrowded hospital of patients who will be nowhere, and most of all, a overwhelming lack of professional employment, especially nurses. All these factors present great challenges for future activities, and rulers realize this. The light in the darkness is that work facilities will greatly improve with new hospitals in the coming years. As for the graduation problem, a new hospital hotel will no doubt be relieved of treatment, such as the highest. Similarly, a minister cut off the opening of a new nursing home in the capital area this year. However, the problem for humans is the most serious part, and that knot will not be released by old traditional means. [[The president calls.]] It would be fascinating, then, to hear what advice a minister makes in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u57	Madam President. It is appropriate that we start a new year by discussing this important institution, the Hospital. But that is how it was, as was made clear in the case of the highest. Health Minister, many preparations are being made, and much is being prepared in the water that will solve some of the problem in the Land Hospital. However, I have repeated it here in one speech after another when it comes to the Land Hospital that I often feel as if the senators were caught in the trap of thinking that the solution always lies in just putting more money on the problem. Rather, we should now consider seriously whether the Landspians are wrestling, e.g. We have a administrative problem, whether or not we need to get to the board of the Land Hospital, how he is organized, and whether the funds we put in the hospital - we expect the hospital to give us a service we would like to be given to those in need - to use the means we require. I have doubts about that. I think we'll have to bring it up to discuss with absolute honesty that there may be a pot broken when it comes to the Management Board of the Land Hospital. I also reiterate what I have said, that it is absurd that the largest firm - because, of course, the National Hospital is nothing but a company, with 5,300 employees - should not have an independent, professional government responsible for a minister and a council. [[The president calls.]] We should record it here before the council ends in spring, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u58	President. The first thing I want to do is that it's important to say that the surgeon has said, and I remind you, in part of the report, that the land hospital is very well fired, just to make it clear. The main reasons for today's major problem are the lack of design and that the flow from the emergency department is not guaranteed. A meeting of part-country welfare committee showed that one of the main causes of the crisis we are now dealing with is inaction of the former governments. Today's situation has, in fact, been anticipated for a long time. We have known of the people's aging age for some six decades, some 60+ years, but we are not prepared for this. In fact, earlier governments have tried their utmost to operate the health system on minimal donations. The increased need for health care in conjunction with the lack of financial resources for years is the main reason for the present crisis. Solutions include in an effort to open up and improve home care and care. It's at the highest. A health minister is quick and quick to respond, and I understand that she is. Why, though, was this operation not long under way? Why are we never prepared? Why Are We Always Responding? Is that an incompetent or political decision? Also, for years that have only recently been recognized, there has been a warning against design problems, but 24% of working - age nurses do not work as nurses do. To a large extent, the problem is an unreasonable work time and an unreasonable one. Nurses are essential health - care providers, and without them this case does not arise. It is understandable that they engage in other jobs, since this class has 12% less pay than comparable classes. What an unacceptable situation to correct! My biggest criticism of these matters is how short the political bitch seems to be. It's a total lack of long - term thinking, with groups and governments thinking only one terms at a time. Short - term solutions are in control as long as you can prove that you are doing something small right now in order to increase the possibility of re-election next time. It gives rise to the hope that the contribution of a new health - care conference will soon be expected by a health minister. I really hope that this can result in a transnational reconciliation so that we can work wholeheartedly on the structure of the health system. Let's fix this emergency now, but the political law on the way to prevent future disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u59	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagledot, for bringing up this important case and the highest. Minister for her input. A management committee has discussed this matter and has observed this problem and has called a special contact to keep the committee more informed on the matter. There have been some reasons for today's emergency problem, but it focuses on how difficult it is to place patients in beds where they are full. The ER is successful in doing its job, it has been observed, and living time is within limits, but then the problem begins when it comes to depositing people in waste departments. They are full and have difficulty in getting patients on appropriate treatment, including patients with aging diseases. Clearly, the problem of waiting for a medical space will be addressed. V.E.G. A minister here mentioned some options that are on the drawing table, which should be welcomed, but it is clear that there is no shortage of demand to be met. The following are solutions, such as a nursing home in Seltiannes, and more space is in the lake. There has been a call from rural communities, such as Hafnarfjörður and Acdéri, for the state to provide funds for the condition of the elderly who are now new to serve in another form of service. These are the ready and present and the staff is in place too, but they are missing the residence of the state. This is a solution that would help solve this short - term problem. The panel has spoken of the appointment of a medical conference that now exists, a health policy that would be essential for a better financial program that would be held. With good health policy, you can plan for the future health - care projects and will be able to prevent the current crisis at the Lands Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u60	Madam President. In part - time surgeon general's office because of the problem of the emergency reception in which we teach various grasses. It should be noted that it does well for the hospital to perform its emergency work, but the reasons for the report are the following: On the one hand, people who have completed treatment at the hospital cannot graduate and the other, the absence of staff members within the hospital. Yesterday we spoke here at the Hall of Congress on the political scene far and wide. He's a health minister's associate, my ass. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, said on that occasion, with president's permission: I've been sitting on a budget committee for quite a while... To be honest, I can't even remember that as few institutions complained that financial contributions to institutions were not decent and that even the Land Hospital had to be called in specifically because he didn't want to come and send in a review. In those words, the chairman's financial problem with the Land Hospital is not to blame for the present situation. Money seems to be missing somewhere else. I'll take my mind off it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned earlier, that it was proper to consider whether the use of money could be better than it really is. I would especially like to make a subject of nursing care problems a special feature and to compare with the fact that a few weeks ago we agreed to a budget was clearly cut down at the great protests of those who were working on these matters, claiming that they had something else to say. Since then, there is the man - made problem that has increased in recent years, especially among nurses. During the revere, we made a suggestion, along with a fine group of members of the council. In the spring of which the secretary of finance would be assigned to conduct discussions with the labour market partners and the Icelandic Community for special initiatives, national groups, in order to improve the interests of the female groups. [[The president calls.]] This was diluted in the way that the majority of the objects did not become a bird or a fish, so that it is now simply forthright. [[The president calls.]] Now, though, when we face the fact that this designer at the Land Hospital has become very serious, it may be the highest level of truth. Ministers and its fellow ministers in the Iceland government will break the tip of their manic episodes and look at a good case when they come out of the lesser part and admit that this is the foundation of the problem. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And there's a solution to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u61	The president would like to remind the senators to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. An adverb, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter, for calling attention to this urgent matter. And I thank you very much. Minister of health for being here with us today and discussing these matters. That is a short period of time, though, to discuss the great problem that we face and have been facing for a long time. This is a accumulated problem, of course, and the highest. A health minister has not had long to fight. But you have to thank what's good, e.g. The kind of nursing that we're about to use. But I would especially like to ask about the 40 nurses I understood to have been in the use of its Seltiannes this past year. Despite the 200 nurses we will now receive, we still have some 270 medical facilities. We still see the problem at the Land Hospital, but over a year ago, in the election campaign, some 100 older citizens were trapped in it and could not get out because home nursing was not available for these individuals. Now there are 130 of them. I would like to remind you of an article I read in the Morning Press this morning, which was a bit striking, and I was shocked. There, an older man tells his story. He has lived in Hafnarfjörður, with his wife, who has suffered from a mental illness. She has now been taken to a resting - place some 470 miles from him, to Húsavík. What's the big deal? Healthcare Ministers are involved in improving e.g. At home, so urgent, and that we better care for our people who suffer from mental illness and for making married couples better able to be together? I come to the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u63	Madam President. I want to start my case because of you. The apocalyptic, what. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter, and Minister for this very important discussion. Naturally, it is mostly the elderly who have the base of this condition, at least Especially, and this is not an acceptable treatment for those who have laid the foundation for the welfare society in which we live. The rapid growth of the elderly has been over the years. The last governments have, with complete complacency, refused to respond to the increase that has now become a fact and is predictable for the next few years and decades. I'd like to use this opportunity, Mrs. President, to call attention to a bill that I have proposed to change the law on the subject of the elderly to ensure that the funds of the elderly are spent on building houses for the elderly and to meet the costs of the necessary changes and improvements in the housing required in the law. In recent years, the sea has not been replaced with a fund that has slipped, not with new buildings and maintenance. The amount of money involved here is billions of dollars. If the bill were legal, the funds of the fund every year to build a home for the elderly would increase by 67% from the present level, i.e. 1.4 billion dollars. of about 2.3 billion. This is equivalent to 30 nurses each year. The nation is rapidly growing old, and this is where practical treatment is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u64	Madam President. It is true that the problem in itself has long been evident in the speeches of several members of the council. This does not change the fact that the government today casts down the suggestions made by the Central Party in the budget that could have been made to repair this problem in part by putting more money in the home service for those who are not receiving nursing homes, and therefore it is not possible to graduate because they do not have domestic assistance. 250 million suggested, but it was killed. A few days later, the health minister went to some Christmas bag and obtained 100 million, if I recall correctly, to set matters straight. But it might have been more painful to simply follow the suggestion presented by the Central Party at the time. I also want to stress that I agree with it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason says that an assessment of how funds go to the Land Hospital needs to be made. The McKinsey report presented a few years ago and was put directly into a drawer and had no discussion indicated that the funds given to the hospital did not benefit, i.e. that his efficiency does not show up, nor is it produced. There must also be some reason, other than pay, why nurses cannot be employed, as they say, that they do not qualify for service at the Land Hospital because there is no apparent lack of nurses in many other places. The landlord pays a fair wage, no worse than anyone, so there must be some problem that needs to be overcome in order to overcome this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u65	Madam President. We'll discuss a report on the state of the Land Hospital. It is especially a joy to know that there is a lack of a wording in this matter. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, who and her team have just been standing here in front of the staff of those who have wanted to delay building in the Land Hospital, and it's good that there has now been a change of business for this fine council, i.e. To realize that the situation is really bad at the Land Hospital, that real action needs to be taken and that delay in this situation will not help us at all. There's more than just a flow problem at the Land Hospital, there's also a flow problem, i.e. In fact, there are many more people who should seek the Land Hospital as their first stop. V.E.G. A health minister has already made a contribution to changing this situation. Health has been enhanced. The study of family medicine has been very successful in Iceland since the start of the Ministry of Health, and so on. The health policy to be presented to the council hopefully in the next few days will help us find our way to the future better. Let's find out if we were to make plans to stay with our present model in the development of nursing mothers in Iceland, where the situation today is that half of those 85 years of age and older who may be nursing in different institutions around the country, we would be up to 8,000 nurses after 30 years. Would anyone like the position and the operation that it would follow, 100 billion a year? No, we need to find new ways, so we must stress the importance of continuing to care for people where they would like to be at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u66	President. The land hospital is in place of a university hospital, the most powerful hospital in the country, and also a district hospital for the city of Reykjavík and the area, a local hospital. It is a task that cannot bring good luck to control. Because of the hospital's emergency role, plans for action have to be delayed. According to the surgeon general's report, last year, for example. 50 replacement surgery and a total of 109 orthopaedic surgery within a 12-month period were required. It takes nothing except patients. Therefore, it is a matter of opinion whether it is necessary, together with a graduation problem, to better define the hospital's role, who should be enrolled, whether it is reasonable to receive and receive all the patients for treatment, and whether any other level of health care should not be increased. I agree with what. paritaprevir In this regard Þór Gunnarsson's son Ólafur. The report says that by providing health care at the right level of service, we may be able to save large sums of money up to 20%. If that is the case, there is a significant waste in our health - care system. The report presents a number of positive results, not black, but the red thread is that various teams need to be oiled into the system to function much better. It is noted that there is a great need to be made up for walking services so that insurrections can be avoided. It is mentioned that there has been an increase in cooperation with health care and that this has led to significant results and reduced the pressures of emergency health care. So I ask a secretary if the health care and natural services should not yet be enhanced and strengthened, in order to deal with additional projects in this regard. Then it's the role of hospitals on the southwest corner. It is a question of whether hospitals need their own defined roles, that they are specialized, and even controlled by land hospitals. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. The opening of a new nursing home is short - lived if we do not change communication in the system and stop focusing on institutionalization as the big solution. Within a few struggles, we may find ourselves in exactly the same situation if nothing has to be done, or is not the highest. A minister would agree with me on that? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u67	Still reminds us of the president of what happened. The members of Congress are to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u68	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. As I would like to thank the minister's answers to her inquiries. I'm convinced that I'm at the highest. A health minister is doing his best, just as staff at the Land Hospital and in the health - care system are doing their best. We must remember in spite of all this discussion that we have one of the best health systems in the world. Let us not forget that many things can be done better. We agree on that. I am somewhat similar to my associates here who have spoken, that there may not be a chance of raising money to solve all the problems we face, whether at the Hospital or any other hospital. This year 240 billion are placed in medical care. Of these, 70 billion go to Land Hospital. In 2013 it was 40 billion. So it's a huge leap, but I feel that even though we make enormous sums of money into our business each year, the discussion will not develop much. I think we must, as we have made very clear here, and I have held on the Senate Health Committee, in line with the heads of the Land Hospital, to look for new ways, especially in the age cases, as noted earlier. paritaprevir Not long ago, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur. I think that in spite of the need for nurses at the moment, we must not let this hold us back from seeing the future. There are so many ways, health benefits, home care, and many other means that we need to make use of. Danes stopped looking at concrete to solve health problems. They took care of the health route. I think that's what we Icelanders are supposed to do. So I agree with my associates, who discussed this earlier, that we need to check whether the money is well spent, and if we have not come to the conclusion of going a new way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u69	Madam President. I pray in advance that I will speak a little fast because I am so anxious, there are many things I would like to say. The situation at the Land Hospital is described as an emergency. The main reason for this problem is the lack of nurses. That's a man's problem. You can't get nurses to clear positions. The reason is mainly the ideal class. Today's pay is over the pain threshold for many nurses. This is an important class, which is much more organized to women. As a female class, it is in accordance with the government's emphasis on correcting its salary. The government covenant, by permission of the president, says: To eliminate gender pay, certain steps will be taken. A normal step in eliminating homosexual amounts of pay must be to correct the wages of women's classes. There is a great demand for nurses in the community, but we now see that they are much more about going to other jobs where the work load is smaller and the pay is better. We must make the health system a desirable place in the workplace for people with appropriate education. Of course, it is the government's responsibility to provide care for the land hospital, and it is also the responsibility of the government to ensure fair and just wages for employees. This crisis is a knot, but as if I'm the problem, it's a two-way problem. On the one hand, it faces long - term problems. It is easy to have a certain sympathy for the highest. Healthcare Ministers because she had taken on difficult living conditions, including those because manure has not been controlled long-term, within the educational system, etc. However, there is a short - term solution, and after a good conversation with the governor of the Lands Hospital yesterday, I received this confirmation that as they look at the matter, the problem is mainly to the nurse's reward and that it could be cut off on that goorthous knot. I'm going to try to get ahead of time. [[The president calls.]] In other words, the pay of nurses has to be increased. When being paid, e.g. A governor is often referred to as a competition with a foreign labour market that justifies the high pay of directors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now I don't know if there's a big demand for any Icelandic presidents in another field, in foreign lands, but I know there's a big demand for nurses, there's a shortage of them. [[The president calls.]] I know the government doesn't want to send a message to the community that it's more important for a man than the medical staff position at the hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u70	Again, the president reminds us that speech time is marked.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u71	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the land hospital situation and the land surgeon's assessment. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the discussion, and just as I would like to thank you very much. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for reviewing the situation with us. I would also like to thank you for the assessment, which is the basis for the discussion, and as noted, the surgeon general failed to provide indications of a serious situation at the hospital emergency room. First, I'd like to say it's a pleasure to see our system, our surveillance, our tips and responses work, and to hear about their work from the highest level. A minister who asks to handle these matters. At the same time, I feel that it is important to open up the discussion, and I can give a quote. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S.. The Brjánsson of Brunan, that this report is not black. Despite all our difficult assignments in this area, we have a good health - care system. That's really what you take with you from this report. There is no delay that those who are the weak get a service. The mean residence time for graduates is not longest and is counted within the criteria of the international classification system. The problem we are discussing here, which has been reported to be more of a service to patients waiting for admission and the highest level of admissions. A minister did well with regard to the tools being done in the Ministry. But as we discuss this problem, we have high demands and are required to do so on the planning and use of funds, which are significant in the context of government funds. It is important to the future, a respectable president, both for Congress and for the nation, that we support the defined terms of the use of money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u72	Madam President. First, I want to celebrate this discussion. It's very important. We need to look at how we solve this problem and how we face it, in view of all the money given to our health system in recent years. That has truly been the priority of governments that have been in control over the past few years, and the expansion is considerable. The problem is that we do not have a measure of the performance of the medical system or the success of the financial growth that has been brought to that end by a legal committee. There's a lot of trouble out there. Clearly, in many parts of this system there is a lot of waste. We base our proposals for solution too often on political charges, e.g. When it comes to determining where the most appropriate place is to carry out certain health projects. There, there has been great opposition to any private operation, regardless of whether more practical measures are needed to handle them at that time or not. We cannot approach such a solution. We must be much more practitionable in our approach and seek the most practical and specificity in each area. We are, for example. to send patients on a significantly higher level of replacement operations than could be done by special members of the country. This is a deliberate waste of public funds. At the same time, it is quite clear that the health - care problem will not solve the current pay level. There is also the will to carry out the assignment. The current Parliamentary section cleared out a decree delivered by Parliamentary Parliamentaries in the final spring Summit for campaigns to raise the best groups of women, and especially by health groups. It is clear that when a nurse's initial pay is about 350,000 K. in a month at the same time as the lowest income level in this country has over 400,000 dollars. In monthly pay, this is not a very attractive skill to pursue. [[The president calls.]] This may explain the first and last problem with design.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u73	Madam President. I'd like to mention what happened in the news last night that doctors seem completely exhausted, a lot of that group. In fact, it seems that it even scars, or is about to become cold - headed in a job, and I don't know what or what. The situation seems to be gravely serious. They give up to double work loads a week, double full work week, up to 80 hours of work week. It's a terrible situation, naturally. I know that there are great and overwhelming jobs and great things to do. A health minister is struggling, but I don't think she's going to give it a good time. I have full faith in that. We just have to trust it, we're counting on it. In terms of 24% of nurses not working in the trade, it is a big challenge to get them to return to their professional class and start working in the hospital. It's a huge project, but I don't think anything is impossible in that subject, and I believe it and trust it to the highest level. Ministers of health, though I know that it truly has many irons in the fire, it will succeed. I wanted to reiterate my question about why these 40 spaces have not been opened on Seltananes, the nursing room for the elderly, and how these 270 nurses, who are thought to be lacking in addition to the 200 who are still fighting to use.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u74	Madam President. I thank you for all the tips I've received and we've received today. Clearly, there's a lot to do at the top. Secretary of health. But when I mentioned that there was no need for medical care, I was witnessing the words of the director of the Land Hospital who said that lack of nurses led to a lack of nurses, and that's why not all divisions could be opened, so I understood him. I'm very happy that the hospital should open now in April, and certainly it will improve the situation. You're right. There are no new news with overcrowded hospitals. Still, it is important that we take the discussion from time to time so that we all will be awakened. It was reported that even the funds to go to the hospital would have to be better handled better. I'd like to come into that, at least we need to know what's done with the money that goes there. At the end, I would like to ask: " Are there discussions with other hospitals? I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether there is some thought about turning people away from the hospital and using the hospitals that we used to have. I'm asking because it's time to expand my walking service. I find this to be something special because we arranged for specialists, who worked quite well. I want to know what's going on with it. Finally, I want to thank you very much for the discussion today, and it sounds like there's a combination between them all. Councilmen who spoke up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u75	A respectable president. I thank you for your excellent discussions and for your material well-being. It is truly beneficial, and it is of great importance to us, as it holds out in the letter of the Icelandic Health Organization, that the council is a step in improving the ministry. I agree that this is not a new project, and in some respects, it is accumulated in very long periods of time. I'm very aware of the problems described in the report and the effects of it, but whatever. A senator asked about the effects on staff and patients. All the measures I've listed here are to make things better and give evidence that I take these assignments seriously. It is also important to keep the responsibility of a land hospital to ensure the quality of the patient's service and security as well as to create a work environment that attracts employees. A land hospital assumes that responsibility, for it is very important that it be clear, as well as in new health policies, what is the responsibility, and what is the work of the Ministry and the individual institutions. I wanted to end this discussion, because I won't be able to answer all the questions presented here, to say that in a health policy that will probably be measured here in the following days - possibly next week and that is ahead of schedule, which is better because I believe that it is important to do so. A welfare committee has a good time - we're here to talk about the funding of the system. We're talking about funding the system regardless of the operator, whether it's private or public. We are talking about quality, of course, that is very important to all in the medical field. But the actions I've mentioned here are promoting walking services, promoting health care, cooperation with the Kraga Hospitals at any given moment. A senator and others asked about, building nurses, increasing flexibility in service to the elderly, who is also very important, as many have mentioned, and especially taking seriously the design problem with practical suggestions. A respectable president. I want to thank you at the end. A senator again for bringing this up. I think that now that I feel in my respiratory organs, there's evidence that I have much more to say, but I don't come back here at the end. [[The president calls.]] But I expect us to do what? A senator will discuss this further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u76	A respectable president. I recommend here for your bill to legalize your car insurance policy. The bill suggests that there will be special laws on the law of automobile insurance and benefits due to the damage caused by motorized vehicles. A set of road insurance and reformal responsibilities is now in XIII. a section of a current traffic law, but a bill to a new traffic law without a rule has been submitted to the General Assembly. The objective of the bill is, on the other hand, to clear up the current legal laws of driving insurance and to improve damage caused by motorized vehicles and to add new measures to ensure further corrective safety due to damage caused by motor vehicles. The main changes to the bill from the current law are: First, a range of values is more specific, and legal action will be made that laws do not apply when a vehicle is used for a purpose other than a vehicle. It will also fall outside the law's field of values when a vehicle is involved in a driving race in a restricted area where traffic laws have been obtained. Second, it is suggested that the term vehicle be directed to registered vehicles. Unregistered surveillance is excluded, and the need to allow insurance to remain in the registration condition according to the bill for a new traffic law is necessary. Third, a definition of the term handler is added, but that term is not defined in current traffic laws. A new traffic law bill has a comparable definition of that concept. Fourth, it is new in the bill that the exception of the damage efforts are the vehicles owned by the National Emergency Prevention Association when they drag other vehicles to rescue, as there are the approval of the owner, or the staff of the vehicle that is saved. The objective of the law is to reduce the number of situations in which solid vehicles block traffic because of inability to drive, resulting in a shutdown of road routes. So far, the rescue forces have been responsible for handling these conditions, an unacceptable position. Fifth, it is suggested that if a vehicle or another vehicle is attached to a vehicle, the vehicle and the connected object are considered to be one unit. As a result, the vehicle's objective responsibility is not appropriate if the car or device is damaged. Sixth, it will be clear that a driver of a vehicle is allowed to pervade it in his name. In such cases, however, owner is still responsible for the legal guarantee of the vehicle. Seven: The new fact is that the law of the insurance policy should rest as a law on vehicles for two years from due to due date. It is held that the law applies only to the law's insurance laws. The entitlement of the bill includes the collective appointment of the Icelandic car owners and trades and services of a member of the Committee on Revocations, instead of the Icelandic car owner's company. According to the current law, a member of the Committee is designated by the National Association of Carors and has been interpreted as having the common requirements of Icelandic car owners and trades and services. In other words, the bill suggests legalization of that arrangement. According to Article 9, the Commission's surveillance by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs is required to address only those who are under the law on official financial control, No. 87/1998. A tenth piece of paper is an adjustment to the expiration rules. Now all the requirements begin in the four years from the end of the calendar year that the demanding worker learned about his requirement and was able to seek it fully. But at the latest, the requirements persist in ten years from a devastating event. The bill suggests that a four - year expiration period is not relevant for physical benefits but is required in ten years. The effects of the bill, if legal, are largely due to changes in the expiration rules improving the quality of the rightness of the bill and to an end in terms of the beginning of the expiration period. However, due to this suggestion it is not expected that a highly measurable effect on insurance insurance insurance insurance policy would be to be expected. The impact of the bill on institutions is negligible. They should be equipped to deal with the changes recommended by the law. The bill has no anticipated financial impact on the wealth of the empire. V.E.G. President. The primary objective of the bill is to have specific laws on the law of road insurance and to make valid measures for improvement due to the damage caused by motor vehicles and newer regulations more clear, as well as to ensure further correct safety due to mechanical damages. I suggest that this bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u77	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 120/2016 of public shopping. The main objective of the bill is to make specific arrangements in current laws more specific, thus contributing further to the public's acceptable purchases. The legislation proposed in the bill is to ensure that the regularity of public shopping is more supportive of government policy and that there will be a discrepancy between national regulations and EU rights in their interpretations. Changes are then required to promote increased production in public services for the benefit of users, employees and taxpayers. The changes will make it possible for public buyers to take advantage of, in increasing numbers, of flexible shopping practices, especially in situations where offer is inaccessible or over budgeting. This aims to reduce the cost of shopping and to reduce the cost of shopping. With the implementation of a new global layer of public shopping in 2016, the field of values of the law improved and extended to social services and other specific services. This change had a burdensome effect on member and rural society in the sense that a more complex rule of work was involved in such a service. The proposed changes are aimed at clarifying the rules and simplifying the implementation of these rules more efficient and reducing uncertainty as well. The bill also outlines new recommendations on chain responsible contractors for subsidiary workers in accordance with government policies regarding the introduction of such a law in different sectors. To date, however, the buyers have not been considered prohibited from requiring chain responsibilities according to current laws, and some public members have had such regulations in their exports. The main objective of the law is to help prevent the possible misuse of labour in this country, along with increasing the awareness of the buyers. Then there is the proposed change in the operation of the government's headquarters, which will lead to the establishment of the Agency's establishment in the form of the trade but instead to the format of the Ministry's special work module. The effect of these changes is that the unit of activity and its projects become much more flexible and varied. In addition to government funds advisers, the work unit is expected to work on projects that contribute to increased cooperation and integration of institutions through more extensive headlining, e.g. in the context of general education, effective management, human resources advice and development of information technology in infrastructure. These are the changes targeted normally following the changes that have already been made in the activities of the Agency and fully in accordance with government policies. This is a significant step towards improving the Agency's improvement role and achieving the improved effectiveness of the work in a comparable way to that done with similar institutions in the North countries. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The budget and the 2nd. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u78	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the legal handling of crowns that depend on the specific restrictions and currency laws. As the bill shows, its contents are divided into two parts. The first part focuses on changes in the treatment of crowns that depend on the specific limits, No. 37/2016. First of all, it is suggested that the restrictions on the provision rights of property, which are included in the law be significantly removed. The advantages of foreign hands and their business practices are not the norms of national products and services that are held at a domestic currency market, a so-called national labour market. The laws proposed to change were proposed in 2016, and they were an important part of the government's budget for the release of capital resources. Their implementation included an estimated 319 billion dollars, about 15% of gross domestic product. Since then, governments have been working to solve the problems of such assets that now hold about 84 billion, or 3.1% of gross domestic product, compared with 15% previously. When the law went into effect in the spring of 2016, it was seen that the limitations they requested would be temporary measures and that governments would once again direct the emissions of domestic and national property when a better balance was reached on the domestic databases. However, the precise timing of this material was extremely uncertain. However, economic grounds now exist for the granting of an opportunity to free all of the land owners of the land. The available sources for the assessment of the bill are mainly three types. First of all, there is a general warrant for all landowners to disseminate foreign property to purchase foreign currency and move to a foreign bank. The source only includes the accounts and accounts of the Penitentiary Bank, but the owners of other types of land property, such as stocks or stocks, have the potential to sell them or after experiences wait until due due date, they want to use the source. Second, from November 28, 2008, there is a warrant for landowners who have had domestic property continuously in place of November 28, 2008, to free land property from the limits of the law. It is not a requirement to purchase foreign currency and to move it from abroad as in the general warrant, but it will be permitted to dispose of the property in this country. The source is subject to the confirmation of Iceland's Council Bank that the conditions for continuous possession are met. Third, it is authorized for individuals to take up to 100 million. K. on the basis of accounts that depend on specific restrictions. This warrant includes the deposit and deposit letters of the Sentencing Bank. It is not a requirement to purchase foreign currency and to export it as it is in the general authority, but it will be permitted to dispose of the property in this country. The source depends on the confirmation of a person's real possession of the funds. The second section of the bill turns to a change in currency law, No. 87/1992. An adjustment of regulations to temporary III is laid out in the law that stipulates the release of Iceland's Secret Bank to take up the commitment rights of budgetary flows. In 2016, the Agency's source, generally known as the budget device, was registered as part of the government's budget for the release of capital waste. The binding obligation to capital charge into the stock market and, in high interest, was put on because such influx had disturbed the sharing of the money policy and the overreaching of the crown was at risk before the release of an exportor. At that time, it prevented risks from being built up in the financial system because of the growth trade. The bill suggests a change in the setting of uninvolved funding flows, which include increasing flexibility in the form of the volume of cash for the new influx of foreign currency. The changes make it possible to fulfill binding obligations through reciprocal transactions with the Secret Bank's internal letters, but up to now binding has only been possible with indentations in bound accounts. Rewinding such trades have comparable economic impact and binding on binding accounts to the extent that yields of binding time as if it had bound money on binding accounts. The difference between the current route and the one suggested here is that investors who choose to fulfill the binding obligations in a new way are not tied out the Segressor's letters, but are able to break up binding by selling letters, evading or breaking bank accounts for costs according to post-entries. They are expected to invest or finance companies who have fulfilled binding obligations on the basis of current sources and to have funds in the accounts may, following the implementation of the law, adjust the structure according to the new contributions made by the bill. This change is seeking to meet the financial criticism that, in certain cases, their existence will be prevented from investing foreign people in Iceland. A respectable president. This bill is one of the government's final steps in decommissioning the funding crisis following the 2008 financial crisis. As we know, the capital of individuals, businesses, and pensions was taken away in March 2017, at which point it was necessary to maintain certain limitations on the provision of agricultural property. I suggest that this bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-22-55.u79	Madam President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of customs law, No. 88/2005. The contents of the bill are two-way information on the transport of funds between countries, however the so-called VRA certification, the certification of the approved operator, intended to contribute to the increased effectiveness and safety of tax pay on freight transport. The factor involved in providing information on the transport of funds between countries is part of the response of the Icelandic government to the worldwide FAFF, Finland's Action Board, the assessment of Iceland's defenses against financial resources and the funding of terrorism published in April of last year. It was discussed in the Committee on Directive 6. the bill on the processing of information in connection with the refreshment or re-vocation of VRA certification could provide to the customs manager so extensive a warrant for the processing of personal information, or thus lay upon other public bodies to provide toll manager information, to contradict the principles of the personal protection Act. A review to the Committee, as well as at a meeting of the Committee, showed that when the law was respected in relation to an explanation in the bill's report, there was no basis for comment on the Agency's part. Thus, according to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Hv. paritaprevir His wife, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, was absent from the case. Under the heading of this magazine, which stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. Councilmen of Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Brabbur Níelsson's son, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Vigdís Guðmundsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Smári Mccarthy.
