ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to give a written answer to a covering query. 556, on the basis of a waiting list for nurses and residents, from the Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, on the icicle. 567, for the service of the Ministry, and for its institutions, from Birgir the son of Þórarinsson; and for the threshing floor. 615 of the Department of Health at the Ministry of Health and Department of Social Affairs from Vala Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u2	A respectable president. We hereby vote for a death warrant request, and it is necessary that we agree to that request at our last council. I think the report is in operation at the Ministry but in order to return it as a Senate document at this council it is necessary to reimburse your report request. It suggests that the minister's review of the information on death support and the development of a law code on it where it is permitted, frequency, cause and condition of death aid where it is permitted, the experience of death aid where it is authorized, public discussion and possible legal adjustments in countries where death aid is not permitted, especially those North countries, Germany and Canada, where there has been considerable debate, as well as a review of the attitudes of health professionals regarding their death support. I think it is very interesting to know the position of health care professionals because we recently received information that 77% of the respondents in Machine survey were in favor of death support. I hope the World of Congress can accept this again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u3	Mr. President. I understand this request in that it is, in effect, preparatory to the law bill that death will be a reality here on the country. As we know, death aid is prohibited in Iceland. There's already an excellent subject in this country to help with death, so they say, e.g. A recent study of the law on death support. It is, in fact, there. Find a comparison between legislation and law in the Netherlands and Belgium where death aid is permitted. There is also a discussion of legal action in Switzerland. I understand this matter, Mr. President, that if it is approved it may be only a matter of time before a discussion of validating the right to die at the General Assembly. This is not to my satisfaction because my opinion is very complex and has moral, professional, legal, and religious issues. The middle party doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u4	A respectable president. I come up here to reiterate my gratitude to the messenger of this request. I think it's important to find out how these matters are being handled around us and to examine the surface of allowing choices, to allow people to choose to die with dignity. I don't know how I'd choose if I was there, but that's what matters. Well, the choice is what's important, so, of course, I support this request.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u5	A respectable president. I think this request is quite self-explanatory. There is obviously a will at the company and elsewhere to learn from what might have gone wrong in preparation and possibly what followed when we watched the storm that swept the country a few days ago. Since it is important that the council be well informed, we feel that the report requested here will be submitted to the council. There is no date when the highest time is due. The report should be returned to us by the prime minister, who is expected to be during this assembly. I don't think there's any need to withdraw our reports. I hope that members of Congress will agree that the council will be informed in this detailed manner. The request lists matters worth answering, not exhaustive, perhaps easy to answer some, perhaps unnecessary. We leave that in the hands of the minister and the request directed to the prime minister, where so many departments and so many institutions are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u6	A respectable president. I support this request, and although some events cannot be attributed, such as the recent storms, it is well known that climate change will increase the risk of storms such as recent weather conditions. Hence, it is more important that we be prepared, not just for storms like this, but for other extreme weather conditions that may damage our infrastructure or otherwise get in our way. That's why I like this request, and I hope it comes out as soon as possible, but I'm saying that we also need to prepare for something that cannot be prepared for because we don't fully predict exactly how our planet will change in the coming decades. We need to be prepared in general, not only to specific problems that we have just experienced but also to those we do not necessarily foresee. How exactly this is done is a more difficult work than the first step is clearly a report like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u7	The President wants to inform only of the meeting as planned today. We will now begin our long schedule at this meeting and gather votes at the end of that meeting, near this time. We may take a brief break before that vote, which concludes our first meeting of the day. After a lunch break between meetings, we begin a second meeting. This will likely be the first two issues on the agenda, i.e. 3rd. on the bill to legalize the citizens' rights and oral report of the storm, its consequences, and the response of the government. It's hard to determine exactly what time it is, but what is it? Senators will be in the area and will be paying close attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u8	A respectable president. It's a short bill around the balance bill. There is some separation of what you can do by accepting it and by considering what is related to it and how you can deal with it. The financier has a State Review Report on 2018, which was briefly discussed in connection with this bill, yet it was decided to shovel this bill through the council in a moment of no narrative or anything like it. It may be possible to argue in some way that it does not need to be done and that the balance will be discussed in some form of professional treatment. I have no idea how the committee's view of this treatment can be published, but it's gonna be interesting to see it. The key point in this is that there is no change in the handling of the council of state accounts, he stands as he is, but our evaluation of that process and the factors that remain, e.g. In terms of government financial legislation, this matter should definitely be adhered to and decried by 2018. It's not done, it's just shoveled through, and we'll get the other one some day. I'll make a note of this treatment. Of course, we should examine all the issues related to the 2018 State accounts and be associated with a review of a report by the State Review Committee. We should be able to turn the committee's study into this bill rather than just shovel it through and maybe look at it some other time later and under some other circumstances. There is no need to resolve this now, rather than later, it does not alter the outcome of the case. Rather, it gives us as members of the council the opportunity to think more deeply about it and to provide better information in the next consideration of the accounts, on the posology as such. The State Accountant criticized the Ministry on behalf of the council. He said that there are details that can be provided more clearly and clearly. It is a little strange, though, that the council was not asked what it would be like to be clearer and more specific in terms of government account. There are a number of factors to consider in terms of the future remuneration. I feel that this part of work is thus totally unnecessary by the council, so I'm going to pass on a government account this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u9	Mr. President. I'm on the committee party of the greater part in advance that I'd like to account for. There is now a budget to agree with the accounts of 2018 before it has had the opportunity to analyze the review report of the State Review Committee. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned. As noted, the Agency sent in correction of the review report in the end-of-the-year period following the initial review of the report by the Committee. In addition, the committee is going to test the terms of state in an independent manner. In itself, it is inappropriate for a state bill to be agreed on before this work, so I stress that the work will be done on the first chance and that a financial committee will give the opinion of both of them in a formal report that will be submitted to the council and discussed within it. In fact, I think the Chairman of the Committee and other committees would agree with me in that. This important matter came to the council in the middle of the budget, and there was a very limited time to study it sufficiently. You need to find reasonable answers to why government accounts are not published and removed at similar times for the majority of the countries and their companies, i.e. in February and March. I would have thought it was the right way to work on this. I'll be sitting by the hearing because the account has not won the time to put on the stitches. This involves a very extensive work that the Parliament has not had time to do. As mentioned earlier, I am on this committee party in advance, and now I have made an account of him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u10	V.E.G. President. We're in the 3rd. ... andI just want to come up for a little less of the words in question. It's a legal committee. It is true that an accountant is acting in accordance with state accounts, in this case as a state accountant. The bill we're dealing with is simple in itself, and this is actually just an indication that the council confirms the bill of state as it is available. Now a government accountant has completed his tour and made his opinion. He's signing without notice. It is true that a review report will follow, and it can be said to represent itself independently of the financial account. That may be the key to this. A financial committee has, over the years, taken into account an independent review of the report and discussed the indications of a government accountant as to the terms of the financial issues and the total accounts of the state. Of course, we will discuss more on whether, how, and in what way we personally take the review report, but it can be said that such a review report is in force for a thorough review letter. It comes mainly in the 16th floor. Act on state accountants and reviewing state accounts and 59. a law on official financial matters, which says that a government accountant is an accountant, an accountant, an accountant of state accounts and annual accounts. This review report is detailed and contains helpful tips on the entire budget. I'm not gonna have my case any further than I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u11	A respectable president. Last time, a State Accounting didn't give a perfectly good opinion of government bills. It is updated now and is accompanied by a review report, signature, etc. The Senate is without opinion, if you don't mind me saying so. State account is simply adopted by this bill that it is confirmed, but the Allied doesn't hold anything. The General has given his opinion on the matter. Perhaps we will do this later and report some report, but it will compromise the matter as such from the council's opinion. I don't understand why these two things need to be understood. It's just a little more complicated. Someone might ask: " How did the council pay the balance of 2018? The answer would be that it had just confirmed him and nothing more. It's not yet connected when some committee report arrives in six months or who knows when. From outside, it is not in historical context as to how the council handled this matter. What I'm saying is why the council doesn't come up with respect based on a mere study of the 2018 GPA.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I felt that I had just made this clear. It says it's separate. With the review report, the state accountant will review as the body of Congress, but he will also provide a budgetary committee as a representative of the Council as an opportunity to follow up the indications presented in an independent review report, thus increasing the knowledge of the Generals on official accounts. It stands as an independent, independent bill that gives a more clear picture, as shown by government accountants, by the position of property and debt - now we are moving property and debt and management and changes in our own money. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's as far as it goes, and this bill is simple in its image. This account has already been revised by a government accountant for the council. What we're doing in this simple bill is just verifying the state bill as it appears to us. What we have done and are improving, however, calls for increased analysis in the credit account itself. I can refer there to a special overview that gives us the opportunity to compare at the GFS standard so that we have comparable numbers with the budget for the development of expenses and expenditures so that we have comparable sizes. There is a difference between IPSAS and GFS in this situation such as the curve. A senator knows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u13	A respectable president. The government account was available in June or so, and this simple bill on confirmation appears on December 3 and is scraped through the council at zero one. Why wasn't the bill just finished at the beginning of the council if it was so simple and government account? Why are we finishing this here just before Christmas if the review report is of no importance to the council, taking it anyway? Why is it not just as important in this consideration as in the opinion of the Senate of paying off the state bill of the Council's opinion of the reviewed report as well? They definitely do. What we're doing right now is due exactly 2018 without the approval of the Generals. I'm complaining about the lack of it. I don't think it should be torn apart like this. If this was to be torn apart, we could have done it at the beginning of the assembly, immediately September, and then made a revised report. For some reason, it's done at this time, and I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We agree that the bill should be placed before us. As a result, the committee calls in their committee. There's no reason to bring the bill this late. I'm not going to take any explanation for why that is, we want this sooner. I can't see anything else in this situation but that it should be able to lie in front of the budget bill. Of course, it is much easier for the council to take into account in the next year, that 2018 is approved 2019, etc. I can monopolize that this work on the review report is completely independent of the federal account itself. He does not change, despite the fact that a financial committee is going to work on some independent job in the state's budget and in the accounts of its members. That's what we're supposed to do, and I'll agree with who. A senator with that. However, this does not change the government account itself, and when we agreed on our budget of 2017, a financial committee called it, since the bill would be simple in its form. But we're just supposed to take over the review report and review the tips of a state accountant so that we can better figure out what we can do in the state's budget, financial accounts, and everything related to the government's financial affairs. That's our job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words about this fine matter that I support as a whole. In answer to the 2nd. This point called to mind that as good as this matter is, the management is about to go backwards in one way when it comes to this sector. There's a cutback next year for reimbursement, in next year's budget, there's a lot of cuts to these terms, about Thirty percent. I think it's a peculiar message from the government classes to the television and movie sector to cut down 30% of the reimbursement for filmmaking when we should go the other way. Paying part of the movie and TV costs is a good arrangement, and the bill we're talking about here is exactly part of the process of reaching Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. That's a good thing, but that's why I don't understand why the same categories are at the same time cutting down when it comes to a total amount of money due to the reimbursement. Mr. President. In this country, a lot of companies are doing movie, video, television, and there's a lot of growth on that market. I have a lot of faith in the television and movie sector. This is a sector that directly makes money because of increasing activities that then call for additional tax revenues that return to the box. We've had a lot of foreign jobs, whether it's Star Wars, Interstéllar, Game of Thrones, Nova, Olboxen, or Secret Life of Walter Mitty, etc. who have come to Iceland directly because of the reimbursement arrangement. In addition, this has the positive effect that the level of professional knowledge within the sector is increasing by working, before, and by means of foreign experts. Along with this much vegetation in the television and movie sector, we see that the Icelandic TV and movie films are increasingly recognized for international recognition, whether they are considered for celebrations or are simply bought. It's a sector I want us to live in this hall simply bet on. It's a big, exciting business. These figures I have here are five years old, but we see rolling in the television and movie industry is similar to the overall milk industry in the country. Imagine, rolling in the television and movie industry is similar to the world's entire carnivorous industry. In this hall, we are not shy about strengthening the handsome meat industry or the milk industry to a greater degree. In my opinion, we should further strengthen the television and film industry based on intelligence and such. The years in the television and film industry are in the second thousand, so each year's production and distribution of movie and TVs and broadcasts are equivalent to at least one year. Three major projects, so I'll put this in context that many here are interested in. The annual work being produced in these sectors is a major industry in the economy. We also see the government's contributions to the article, and then I'll take contributions to the State Radio, the expense of the reimbursement of the government and the film fund - if we take these contributions by the big bite of the state, it's half the number of taxes that the article itself makes and slides to us in this room. Every dollar from the state returns double. Imagine, every dollar we put in the movie and TV field comes back to us twice. I'll draw back to the fact that I have VU in these numbers. I'm not gonna keep it all over, but I just wanted to make it happen. There are other ways in which we should consider, not just by raising our refunds and not reducing them as the government is doing. We should set up a special telecommunication fund, and the Conspiracy has made it a point of financing the earmarks of the television film money. We have the Film Fund, and then we're pointing to the TV fund. We should create a special and good - looking TV fund, just as we have a movie fund, which focused on television, you can see that much is going on in television movies, not just movies. We do well to consider strengthening companies for speech and texting. I think it's important for the government to consider what the tax service of the foreign press is doing in this country. We find that the Icelandic companies are competitive, whether it is Netflix, HBO, Hulu, or all of this, so we need to ensure equality in the market. This is something the government should consider. Of course, we want men to compete on equal terms, Mr. President. There are a number of major and minor operations that we can monopolize ourselves. The important thing is that we accept the TV and movie sector and we realize that he makes money. He also makes culture, increases our quality of life, makes our living more enjoyable. It's a ◯win-win, if I may gossip, Mr. President, all of us profit from the growing interest of these halls in this sector. That's why I especially welcome the bill we're talking about here. To a much greater extent, we are talking about the television and movie sector and discussing the ways that we can take to care for these sectors much better. The more I think about it, the more logical it is that we're a little handsome in our support of these activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u16	A respectable president. We'll discuss this bill that I put together with my associates in the Western Council's Iceland for a small change in film support so that costs can also fall into Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, as the law assumes that part of the cost, i.e. 20% can fall outside Iceland, but in the EEA. Hv. paritaprevir The Guvigner of S. Brjánsson covered it here yesterday how important it is to cooperate with our good neighbors in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. It's a good thing, and hopefully this will help to strengthen even more the cultural connections between these countries, but I'd like to say that this is no less an opportunity for the Icelandic film industry to develop its work. I agree with what was presented in the case of the day. paritaprevir Ágúst, son of Ólafur of Ágústsson, is very important in this trade. It is vital that we look forward to supporting creative and intelligent activities here. Though we are rich in natural resources, we cannot count on merely the activation of nature and the use of natural resources. Rather, we need to look for the future. Hv. paritaprevir Ágústsson Ólafur Águssson merely introduced the changes that are being discussed in this field. We know that the National Review has published a report and a working group has been working. I am convinced that filmmaking is a very economic influence. I already thought about it. A senator spoke earlier that at the Council of 145 C.E., a request of the Supreme Court was made. Present foreign minister, then. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, and other members of the council, that industrial and commercial ministers brought up a report on the economic effects of filmmaking in Iceland with special emphasis on regional effects. Perhaps we would be wise. A senator simply asking for another report? In those years, I believe a great deal has happened. I think we'll see how much this industry has grown and how much it has contributed. This fine report focused particularly on regional influences and on what specific areas would have come out of filming and other pursuits. We can see that they are obvious, only on news when talking to people in smaller settlements when a small village is almost there and lives there for a while. That has a powerful effect, but it has had an effect on our tourism. I also believe that our taxes, direct and indirect, of this industry are very high, so I think that there's a good reason for us to put up with this sector, and I hope this bill, even though it's not going to work very well, it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u17	A respectable president. I bring here a change proposal for a bill to legalize the changing of various food laws, the Food Fund that the bill has been called at the council. This is a technical adjustment proposal, which was found to show that the Law could not be accepted at the intended time. Then there are a few phrase changes that I'm going to read just in case: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. At 17. a. Instead of the word 'Memorial Institute,'1st paragraph 1. come on: the official Rapporteur. b. Instead of the word 'Memorial Institute,'2nd proverb 1.mgr. and 3thmgr. Come on, let's go. c. Instead of the words, the Agency considers the need to be, in 2 stanzas 1.mgr. monitoring: if considered necessary. 2. 40. g. put it this way: This law has a value on December 21, 2019. At the same time, No. 55/1998, and slaughtering and slaughtering laws, No. 96/1997,◯ So these are the changes that are necessary for technical reasons. Other than that, I describe my joy with this law. The matter was well controlled on the job committee, and changes were made. At the end of the season, it was decided to postpone the establishment of this Food Fund, which was to be done by the production fund of agriculture and AVS research fund into a single bed. The committee expressed concern about what happened to the committee by choosing to wait for the occasion. Other than that, there's a lot of good things in this bill we've been accepting, i.e. A simple rule of order and a high-risk check. The Committee and the Committee's Committee showed great interest in promoting home-rolling and linking it with tourism. Tourism called for this, as also did the farmers before the committee. I just wanted to make this adjustment, and she's here, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u18	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to get in touch with this case about a law change to simple regulations, no. 318. There's a lot of good things in this bill. We in the smaller part, i.e. The one standing here. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, pages it from the job committee's committee's committee's committee to the 2nd. that in the context of uniting these funds, the AVS research fund in the seas and the agricultural products, the Commission was identified as not falling under the defined role of the Food Fund under the bill, and was also noted that the AVS research Fund in the seas was of far higher value than the funds that have been placed in it. It also came to the view that the Food Fund would be a competitive fund, like other fundes, where studies will be evaluated on various grounds, including their new sensitivity. In the speech as small as possible. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson moved ahead of me and suggested some technical changes, too, the senator mentioned that these funds had been eliminated. As we noted in our committees, we view the memory section as being followed and therefore rejoice over it. So it was observed by visitors and also in reviews of this matter of pleasure with simple regulations and supervision and that it was appropriate to simplify the principle even more. I agree that a rule of order regarding these matters will be further simplified and made efficient. I would like to mention what was said in reviews, that the financial impact of stakeholders was not highly valued. At the same time, there was a view that, with a change in terms of payment, the Food Institute is given broad sources to cover the costs of observation and to address them to surveillance candidates. In this way, the Agency's management activities are reduced and we agree that this estimate of costs is inadequate and that preparation is lacking. The need to evaluate the effects of the bill goes further. This is what we've been wondering between us in my category. Besides, I'd like to mention what we've been talking about about about in the home-rolling. The Commission agrees that there is a great need for more careful consideration and that there is a need for a microspheres and house - to - house tour in terms of some extent for improving space as well as stressing that there are no requirements for quality of the product or hygiene in its operations, so that it is not what we have been discussing in connection with homework, but that it simplifys the routine and so that small and medium-sized living in meat production and with domestic meats will be possible to slaughter at home, whether it is totally independent or in some other community. Is it my opinion that one of the methods used to build thus around the agriculture, to this extent carnivore production, that farmers can be more independent and follow their products from the ground to the meat of consumers? I'm not gonna keep this for a while. There's a lot of good in this bill, and it's changed for the better. Then it turns out in the vote today, how the votes fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u19	Mr. President. We're on the 3rd. In this fine language, a change is made in a large part of the motion. The welfare committee on the bill. Like what? The members of the council are aware of the redesignment of changes that had been proposed at 2 strategium. Since that sense of humor was beyond the idea that the review committee that now operates would have as free hands as possible. So it was decided to resolve on this change, i.e. that in the basics of the bill, 11 / 3 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It was reviewed with a measure of accuracy, including accuracy. The attorneys of the Committee to see if the provision could be made in a way that differs from what appears here, in order to form a pattern of changes. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son suggests, canceling the last hearing in the provisional decision, as it is suggested in this change of motion. Sadly, that did not prove to be possible, including Because the provisional principle could have been interpreted so that no exchange of maternity would be made, and some could have asked the expectation that it would be completely free by the way parents split 12 months between themselves. It is not the lawgiver's will that it is, therefore, that it is like a dog. Congress officials are aware of this, and it may be one of the cornerstones of the Icelandic maternoral system, trying to make sure that both parents take part of the hysteria. However, because of the work being carried out by the review board on a total review of the law, this method is chosen for the provisional series of 12 months, and the exchange is given to a minister who will submit the bill for the next fall. However, for obvious reasons, if no bill is submitted, the exchange will be four months for the complete parent and four months. But as I said before, this way has gone to give the review board the scope she needs. I've spoken to the highest. Minister who walks into the hall just now, of the fact that a minister has plans to speed up as much as possible the work of the Review Committee is doing. That's fine. However, the obligation of a minister to provide a bill for the next autumn is irrefutable according to this provisional principle. It is splendid that the minister is here in the hall to hear those words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u20	President. I'd like to ask you what. I have to admit that I have become a little confused because things have been done over and over and over again, and they have made many changes over a short period of time. Here's what it says. According to this provisional principle, a senator's obligation to bring a bill is irreverent. But maybe I would like to ask. A member of the Parliament on what is presented here, by permission of the president: ▪ If a minister does not offer such a bill, parents of the born, be adopted, or taken into permanent foster care on January 1, 2021, or later have the right to a dozen months of birth leave together so that the joint right of parents will be extended by two months. I wondered, " Is it possible to give the highest? ' Minister too much room to bring no bill, whether the duty is strong enough. [[The president calls.]] The minister could get up to sleep on the guard, and there's no bill, and then it's going to go on as quickly as this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u21	Mr. President. As far as it gets to pat something in stone, it's done with this. On the other hand, in the last case of the provisional measure there is a safety valve of some kind, so that at least it is a security valve. For our not wanting to go back to the arrangement to make zero, 12 / 1 We certainly do not want to do so. Hence, if a minister so unlikelyly would not bring a bill, he must in some way define all months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u22	A respectable president. During the last seven years, it has been discussed with us the prolongation of the birthworm to 12 months, with five, five, two. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator where these four, four, four, four numbers come from because she does not come from approved Generals 2012. It does not come from a committee that reported 2016. It does not appear in the conference of Ministers this fall. It's not on the prime minister since the fall of the year, and it's not in the plan for equality adopted by the senator by his vote here yesterday, just as I do. It refers to five, five, two as the turning point. I fully understand that the majority of the Committee would like to keep some frame of this provision. But why not go along with the framework that has been discussed in the last seven years, the framework proposed by the senator's secretary? Why is there a new definition of a Senate document that was submitted late last night? What counsel has taken place with stakeholders? What discussion has taken place in the community or in the Assembly Hall? Where's this coming from?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's been going up and down at night. A significant discussion on the switch should be made by the health committee. The senators were somewhat divided by how far they wanted to go. I'm not going to begin to express myself here on the stand of the individual senators until it can't be afforded. On the other hand, the review of the visitors'comments and comments made some speculation that perhaps it should leave the definition at this point because the overall review was in progress. From zero, twelve so - called, to six, six, a complete definition for all months, there was no definition of any month. That's why it's chosen this way, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u24	A respectable president. Now this bill is one of the things that come from last spring's biographies. The unions that returned the headlines all spoke in a different direction than four, four, four. They spoke further that 12 months would be equal to six, six. So the suggestion that the greater part of the welfare committee suggests is not only contrary to the proposal of the minister but also to the will of the labour market in this matter, which should still be the members of the people being considered here. The senator said that it was a chosen way not to define the exchange but to leave behind for the future. It's just so that it's defined here in a provisional principle. If a minister doesn't enter a bill, four, four, four. The switch was based on the Committee's Committee of Health. Is it in order to change the basic rights of the people with the provisional regulations of a half - day old document? [[The president calls.]] Is that right, Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi for answering. It is true that in the case of the senator, the prolongation of the hysteria at this point was part of the biography agreements. But maybe it's time to remember that both of these are spoken of in the Treaty, as well as of the political party in which I work, and that's why I'm very happy to go for 12 months at this point. But you're right about what you're talking about. Also, a senator was not pleased with the workforce or with those who made the biographies. For one thing, they were withdrawn, and it was set up in the provisional directive to assign a minister to define following the revised work precisely how the months should be divided.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator here recommended. There are a number of factors in it, and first of all, the changes are actually being removed from the basic point that the 12 months are stuck on the bill, and this is now a provisional principle. I wonder what. A senator had actually found no other way than to take the key, which has been worked so long by approval of so many parties and was truly welcomed here yesterday and set it up in a preliminary law. My question is, In the light of all these bix cases that are too far to go here, it was not thought that if a minister did nothing, 12 months, and five, five, two, and then it would be the judicial committee to change it? If so, we would not be presenting a council hearing with a greater part of the committee and the expected greater part of the Generals, which is completely contrary to all the discussions about division and intervening. what was later approved by the prime minister's motion yesterday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for the answer. It is true that the senator is less stable in not keeping the final exchange inside the core text, that is correct. She asked if the provisional decision had not been flat within 12 months and five, five, two. As the senator is aware, even so did he. The reviews to the Committee that have been completely set free, and this landing is some kind of an intermediary. Yes, it could have been the exchange of five, five, two on the provisional note, but then you might have stepped on some other toes rather than the toes you step on with this landing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u28	Mr. President. I thank you very much, but I would like to justify my criticism of the change in the core of the document, not of the exchange, but of the fact that the 12 months have come into the provisional regulations of the foundation paper. That's what's a really dangerous step and I really warn you. It is simply contrary to what the Council has been working on, not just in the last few weeks and months, but in recent years. But with regard to the switch and why five, five, two, first were the provisional principle. Hv. A senator points out that it was a review that sought to criticize where certain persons would prefer this way. But now, there were also certain members who were at peace with five, five, two, and one would expect that in the work that has taken place and would lead up to the conclusion that the bill, five, five, two, would be more supportive than jumping to four, four, four. [[The president calls.]] So again I ask: Why wasn't there material to keep to five, five, two, and give the committee and minister the opportunity to continue working next year to four, four, with more discussion, because five, five, two are the exchanges that have been discussed? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, as the senator knows, when there is a disagreement, it must eventually be the decision of a lawyer how to get to the ground and whether to comply with one's demands or to make any choice. There's an intermediate line. However, it is important that we do so. A senator came in, and I agree with her in that it would have been better to take the twelve months into the main song text. I agree completely with what. That's what a senator does. But then, in view of the greater part, we would not have been giving the review group the same amount of space that is given by having provisional provisions, i.e. It is clear in the provisional order that the review group should determine how they feel about the switch.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u30	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm a little confused about the argument. Senator. He speaks of differences, likely within the welfare committee, and he speaks of not wanting to clear up. Yesterday, the General agreed with a consistent non-inferiority plan, which makes the phrase very clear, that birthworm should be extended to 12 months, and this will be divided by five, five, two. The Parliament agreed together with this operation plan, including all members of the committee. The welfare committee, now referred to a problem within the health committee that agreed with this strategy yesterday and spoke of the need to be resolved. Step on whose toes? Step on clear bow. The General Assembly that approved last night the five, five, two? It has been talked about all the streets since the debate began about the prolongation of birthworm for 12 months that this exchange would have to be minimum of five, five, two, so that birthworm would function as the equalizer device it is supposed to be in a labour market. [[The president calls.]] Last night, I want the council to change their mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for the answer. The difference of opinion referred to by the senator is not merely within the circumstances. A welfare committee, if that's what the senator's hunting for, he's also out in the community. It is true that yesterday the council gave a very clear message on how it would be acceptable to have the exchange, i.e. Five, five, two. It is true that the senator has already talked about that exchange in the community. Nevertheless, community interest groups and at least some voices here within the council who wonder whether the exchange needs to be this way or whether it should be completely free. So I reiterate what I said before, that with this landing the Review Committee is given only free card. On the other hand, I expect the highest. A minister will in some way in this discussion have the opportunity to express himself on the subject, and if he chooses, he is here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u32	A respectable president. It may well be at the top. Social Affairs and child - care ministers have a different opinion on this matter than the highest level. Prime Minister, who proposed the Synod resolution proposal for an equalisation plan. A majority of welfare committees still demand that the council change their minds overnight. Yesterday, the Congress adopted a five, five, two divided operation program, but this motion suggests that if nothing more is done, this four, four, four, the greatest return in the equality cases of years would be my greatest. It is clear that today, the three, three, three, and fathers are taking on average three months, and the six mothers. If the exchange took place four, four, and still the mare shrinking that has occurred in the womb in recent years, it is simply one that the exchange would be eight, four. [[The president calls.]] It would be the biggest step backwards for women in the labour market for years. It is a scandal that more of the welfare committees make this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u33	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, one of the most important messages in the maternity code today, is the one involved in making sure that both parents take as equal as a part of the hysteria. It is also inserted into the part of the next year, i.e. then we cut short the perfect time from three to two, and extended time from three to four. As I have answered, the second in progress is a review of these entire laws. One of the choices we have to make is to legalize only ten months on this trip, but it is not a good thing to do, and that's why we decided to put the 12 months of this separation into the provisional principle and that the Review Committee and Ministers will be assigned to complete it. [[The president calls.]] I'd rather expect it to be in accordance with the schedule of equality that has already been agreed upon, but I can't tell you about it at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u34	A respectable president. I must admit that I was a bit surprised when I saw a change in the plans of a small part of the welfare committee last night and noticed that she was not trusting to legalize a 12-month maternity term except on temporary rules. Speaking of being a good start or not, I don't think it's a good thing to think that the extension of orcs, the basic rights of a labour market, is scraping on temporary rules that the ink is hardly even dried up because we should vote on it. The length suggested by most of the Committee does not set aside any disagreements. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson says that a state of exchange between parents. It does not push aside that conflict or postpone it until autumn so that a minister can provide the bill of that material. No. The majority of welfare committees are taking sides that the exchange should be four months for parent and four because the change is black in white. There's nothing to run away from. It is suggested that, contrary to the seven years discussed in this matter, the separation of the birthorfs takes four months in each parent and four months, across the last seven years of this matter, contrary to what we agreed yesterday in this body of Congress when a non-inferiority program was adopted by 61 joint votes. It says, by permission of the president, people forgot: ▪ Whether a parent is entitled to a five - month maternity or not, parents have a common right in two more months that they can share freely with each other. Two hours later, a majority of the health committee had changed their mind. Why is that? Is there any internal differences? Is that it? Do people find it hard to remember for more than half a day what they decided in this room? It has been said that no matter what landing had been selected regarding the switch, there would always be steps on some toes. All right. □ What is the purpose of the four distributions, four, four, and the majority of the social committees? It has taken place on the official Women's Rights Association of Iceland. It has taken place on the common Union of Iceland, the Alliance of State and Towns and the Union of Colleges. The reviews of all these parties are on one route, from five, five, two towards six, six. Don't they really matter? Members of the labour market, members of the biographies on which this bill is based. Iceland's Women's Court of Rights, which expresses itself here on one of the most powerful workforces, says: Don't do this, as much of the welfare committee is suggesting. What was more important to the toes than these? Another review from that. Friday, with the permission of the President: ▪ I don't think people should lose sight of how important this system of equality is to the work market as soon as it is a vital matter of justice, an important social issue, that this is in a way that the maternity rights is divided between parents and that it is not handed over only on a small scale. There must be only a small amount in this situation, and both parents will be there because the bite in the device begins to shrink. Those words fell here on Friday in a discussion on this subject. That's where he said it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and I must admit that I agree wholeheartedly with him. As we have seen, fathers are inclined to ignore one another's common rights. By expanding our rights together, we can well expect that fact to continue. We are thereby increasing the gender loss of the work market. But it really doesn't matter at this point, because it is not supposed to be our place here today to determine the final exchange of 12 months of maternity when it is suggested that the minister bring that bill to the next autumn. That is why I have proposed an oversibility of change to the majority of welfare committees, which means removing one of the causes, from the back, so that a minister must bring a bill, so that it is decided not now but by year on how the final division of the twelve months is conducted. It's perfectly unacceptable, it does not include any sort of meditation, and turning aside from a course that has been protected for seven years is not very careful regarding how to divide 12 months of birth leave between parents and invent any new exchange and legalization, as suggested by a greater proportion of welfare committees. No, a respectable president, that's not gonna work. In case of a moment. The members of Congress are serious about the intention of understanding the definition of the separation of birth code into the fall so that a minister can put it on subject, so that it can be taken over by three debates in the conference halls and careful treatments in committees, if it is serious with it, they simply support the change of my proposals and eliminate this last sentence of a greater part of the welfare committee. If you can't make it, and if the change in the more part is accepted as it stands, then here are people here today to decide that the 12 months are four, four, if a minister doesn't enter a bill. You can't say it any other way. There is no way to pretend that this decision is postponed, that it will be taken here if it cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A member of the council before the talk, explaining his decision to change. In the past, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, vice president of the welfare committee, made an explanation of the changes made in the majority of the objects. What I wanted to come here and shed a little light on is that today is the three, three, three, i.e. We've got a nine-month maternity school. In 2020, we add one month, which will be four, four, two. So we are reducing the common right of parents next year with babies born that year. That's four, four, two. The extra month is added to one parent, and the same month goes to the other parent. I think it's very important that you do this during the discussion because of the problem. One senator stated that we were making some changes because we were disappearing from what was laid up. It's just wrong because by 2020 we are truly reducing both parents' common rights. Then I'd also like to say that the results of the Commission on the basis of this discussion are clearly the course of wisdom to include this in the group of work that is already being dealt with on an overall review because there are a number of points to be considered, such as the right of single parents, the interaction with the birth-replacement system, etc. Of course, so the minister will bring a bill. The person standing here will bring a bill in October next year, just as this provisional principle says. But I think it's very important that we realize that 2020 we're leaving that there are three common months to two common months, so it's being held in this discussion. The minister will bring a bill in October, second in connection with the overall review of the law, which will be exactly 20 years old next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u36	A respectable president. I thank the minister the answer, and according to his words, I expect to be supported by my adjustment because it is about waiting for this overall review, waiting for the prime minister of the next autumn which he promises he will come along, but not to have some vague desire of a council in a provisional law at this point. I think it's perfectly unacceptable, and I hear the Minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u37	A respectable president. I want to come back up to repeat that in 2020, because this extension of three phases is going to be four, four, two. She's leaving three, three, three to four, four, two. It is of utmost importance that this be shown during the discussion because of the circumstances. A senator did not recognize this in his case. The government is just about to take the step of reducing the common rights of parents and the earmarks of the worm in 2020. Then, of course, we're going to bring a bill in October, where we're going to deal with some changes in the birthworm system, because it's 20 years old legislation. I reiterate this in my discussion here because it's the fact that we're taking steps back. The Senator spoke of a seven-year course, etc. In praxish it will not be the case in 2020. My feeling is that people are messing things up right here in the conversation and trying to get it in that the government is taking a step back on this, but then I'd like to say that the next year, according to the bill, it's going to be four, four, two. We reduce joint rights by one month in 2020. You should be right in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u38	A respectable president. Sounds like the highest. Ministers are discussing each part. I was not discussing this interstep which will be in the next year, which is on the prime minister and in all the adjustments proposed in the matter; four, four, two. It's a good step, it's an increase in maternity rights from nine months to ten. What I'm talking about, however, is a final application for the 12 months, and there I simply agree with the Minister as he puts it in the bill. Five, five, two would be a huge, important step in equality. I'm not letting it lie that the government is doing something or anything. In fact, I'm pointing out that a greater proportion of welfare committees are now suggesting that the four, four, four provisional regulations go contrary to everything materially, and the trial does not hold any opinions. Says a minister is going to bring a bill in the fall. Let's just believe it and take out this arrangement that forces a world of Congress here and now to take a stand for the final distributions of the 12 months on a totally unacceptable and unsatisfactory foundation. Instead, let's wait for the full reexamination announced by the Minister. Let's make a decision for the division of the 12 months on that basis, not here with some handbacking done on hand barrels.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's particular point of view is that this is an enormous case. You can't take care of it like this and the highest. Minister will come up here and try to mislead the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi has been very honest about this, defending the equal devices that have been exemplary in many other countries, and producing tremendous results. I'm kind of surprised at the highest. Minister. I expected him to come up here and tell me earlier that he would say, "I'll be right back." A senator and I are going to accept this adjustment because it's a prince's case. However, the equality issues of this Ministry may have been taken and applied to the Ministry of Presidency, and he has no eye on the equality issues involved. That's why I'm very concerned that the government of the left green, led by Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Minister, we're going to let this evil message pass through. We also have reason to fear it, especially in the light of what happened here yesterday and one case after another from the highest point of view. A social minister is ill - prepared, arrived late, and all classes agreed on this, even among the members of the Congress, that there could have been more work done. This is what I'm afraid of. I strongly agree with what. A senator that must be taken care of by the council, that our message is clear. Knowing that within the largest member of the board, people are very at odds with the five, five, two splits - it took a lot to keep their heads in the course of a separate parental condition and then freedom of choice - I must ask. A senator: What is the problem, he believes that it is being accomplished, because this doesn't come out of a void?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u40	A respectable president. It's a good thing that missed you. A senator to the bill that came here is just fine. The policy established by the government for the council, to extend the birthmark to five, five, two, is just good. Therefore, I am so surprised to learn that the majority of the board of directors of a welfare committee did not rely on that good policy. It is because of their lack of confidence in the possibility of a permanent break between parents in law right now. In any case, we have a year before this is due to be fully valid. But nailing in one of the lawyers' will of temporary regulations at this point with no thought, a few discussions, is a very strange practice. I'd like to believe that the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs is going to meet all the deadlines and bring back the full reevaluation of the birthstorms on time to the council for the next fall, and we are able to complete this case properly. But as the senator's case often did not want to be the case with counsellors, and then we would be taking quite a chance by attaching some self - working law on the length of four, four, four, in a preliminary law. I don't know how to answer what interests are being taken care of in this process. But as I mentioned in my speech, it's not the viewpoint that goes by the labor movement, which, though, should be considered part of the case. It is not the viewpoint of experts on equality that, however, matter. [[The president calls.]] So I'm just as concerned about this as I am about what I am. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u41	V.E.G. President. I realize that there is. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson does not want to explain exactly why this is so, and there may be several reasons. The key point is that the provisional principle is bad messages. They're pulling their teeth out of the birth and parent's home, teeth from that instrument, and the laws about equality. The labour market experts, both laborists, but also the employment union, have agreed with our exact approach because they know that if it is handled firmly, it will be successful and that is what this 20 - year - old birth serpent's history has shown, we have achieved success. Although we have not achieved perfect remuneration, the birth - exchange device has made a specific contribution to the struggle of women as an equal device, which supports them as far as they can go when they are employed, when they are pregnant and are being hired by men of the same age, because, suddenly, the word is equal, it has become equal as it has been before. They are being pushed out of time. I want to thank you. A senator once again with his pulse on exactly this. I don't believe that any of the government groups now use the time until we vote on this and draw this proposal back and propose. A senator will hold it together because it is bigger than control and opposition. It's a huge thing for Icelandic society, and now that we're 10th or 11th year in the first row of equality, it's just because we've been watching. We will not be awake if we do not come to the obvious with regard to the proposals of the social committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u42	A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep this far. I just thought it'd be nice to say, "Don't worry about it." A senator when she said that it was bad messages that appeared in the provisional terms of a majority of the welfare committees where the council is here and now taking sides in a conflict that should only be discussed here in good order the next fall. It's bad messages, but they're also totally unnecessary because if my proposal reaches the point, the bill is just as good, it takes ten months to count next year, four, four, two. Here's a minister who's assigned to bring a 12 months' implementation bill in the fall, and then we can just accept it and have the New Year's Reconceptives set in place. This evil proposal for the greater part of the welfare committee is so much more incomprehensible because it is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u43	V.E.G. President. Yes, just one more minute about this enormously important matter. I'd like to take my heart to the suggestion that we spoke here before, in response, as well as in reply. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is running. There's a lot of great things in this bill, and I'm glad that it's a common council, not just the government, but all of us, going to a 12-month-old maternity school. All of us agree that there is no point in trying to turn it out in any way. It's a cause of joy, and that is in line with what the labour market members have called after, and we go to it together. On the other hand, I mention the engineering and work environment that have been since the matter entered the council, and it is obvious that familiar voices within such things as old - fashioned voices. The Independence Party is controlling a lot of countries here on progress. It took 20 years ago to realize that we needed to be held temporarily - because, in the utopia, in the dream world, we would like to have twelve months and people just choose who goes into the maternity drive each time - while we didn't have perfect wage rights, while we didn't achieve equality in the labour market and in other places in the community, specific means of supporting government, as well as for businesses, until women were equal to the work market. Not everyone understood it at the time. Happily, however, there was a strong group in the Independence Party who fought for it. I'm sorry to hear something like that. not the voice of named Pétur Blöndalur, who was a sincere advocate of this arrangement and saw the precious creation that would be through the equality. He attended a meeting and spoke of the birthworm, not necessarily as a family affair, but primarily as an equalizer tool to promote a healthy workforce. And there are these voices I miss not hearing from this largest government class. I'm going to see that the powerful women who are there at the council will vote with the case and suggest a greater part of the welfare committee as she now looks because it is contrary to all the ideals we have for an equal approach and why we divide our birthfowl in the way we do now. You might ask, " Why aren't we taking this ten months next year, just five, five? ' Why not? All right, it's an intermediate, four, four, two. But for God's sake, we do not take the step of sending out the message that we are going to disappear from what was approved yesterday. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson correctly pointed out that, sort of overnight, as far as changing one's mind, there is a change of rhythm because there may be some dissatisfaction in the largest government group. I hope to the highest. The prime minister of equal rights is taking a stand here, that's why he's in the back rooms, and okay this and just say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Dearly beloved, to the greater part of the welfare committee, we are not going to send this message. It's necessary. There are not many hours left. This proposal is available, it can be changed. I encourage it to be done, and I see there are several managers in the hall and in the side halls. They discussed the messages that went on to the Review Committee. Of course, the review committees have an important role to take into account single parents and other factors. But the message should not be that we are yielding in using the birthworm as an equalizer device. That's the message the welfare committee is sending. It's the message that a majority of the welfare committee is sending into the Review Committee. She's saying, certainly, there was a plan of equality yesterday up to five, five, two. The labour market members want five, five, two, but you have a very large amount of free cards. Senators aren't supposed to be trackers, we're supposed to lead. In our restoration, we have complete confidence to say: "We do not want to go along with the welfare committee. We want to go the way of equality, do what is right. It is not the way that the majority of welfare committees are assigned to some extent. And we cannot, and we cannot afford to give up at this point, as I say, although the vision, the dream vision, may well be that 12 months will be left to birth, and parents will determine what they will do with it. I think it's an important part of the party that's in the maternity room. I'm going to commend the government for raising the birth clinic limits. Research has shown that this is especially the part that pays for maternity clinics, which affects the intake of ororals. I believe that once we take these steps, we should set our priorities again. I think it's an important step for us to consider that the payment of a birth vacation fund is so that it is not only women who go to maternity school. Why is that? Because we haven't got paid equals yet. The circumstances of women are not balanced with those of men in the general labour market These are my speculations into this. There's a lot of good things in this, but I missed it earlier - and that's because the social minister is no longer the minister of equality - in this spin, which was in some respects, which he came up against. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, that he wouldn't say here: "Yes, I'm going to agree with this adjustment proposal. Change course. That is exactly what the senator helps us to stay awake, to be awake, and to remain in charge when it comes to equality. The majority of the welfare committees are trying to minimize future events, and I'm not going to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u44	A respectable president. I have to admit that I miss the fact that there is no sign of this great proposal at the Senate Hall when it is discussed. The majority of the welfare committees are here asking the Council to change their mind from the very clear stand adopted yesterday. Yesterday, we agreed on a consistent equality plan to extend the birthworm to 12 months and the exchange should be five, five, two. Then comes a greater proportion of welfare committees with a change of motion and says: "If not, then let this division be four, four, four. That's what it's all about. If this adjustment is achieved, in 2021 four, four, four, will be born again, with all the emphasis on birthworm talk in recent years. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson got in okay. I cannot really help but think that the greater part of the welfare committee is asking the General to make himself a joke about this matter. In the power of the majority of the government groups, a majority of the welfare committees are asking the Senate to make a fool of themselves in the equal talk, to change their mind to such fundamentals overnight, with no logical support for the one reason, apparently, that the majority of the health committees have not really been able to agree on this matter. Yet a 61 senator voted with five, five, two yesterday. In view of the fact that the majority of the workers are not to be opposed in any way, I will predict that much of the council will make a fool of itself here today by altering that decision. What was so good about the approval of the strategy yesterday, but it will be as bad if this adjustment is accepted, it was that the Lawgiver's clear will for the switch was shown to be five, five, two. The majority of welfare committees are now asking the council to change their minds and give the clear messages into this revision work that if not decided otherwise, there are four, four, four. These are basics, and we are so powerful in this hall that we often find ourselves struggling with basic issues. Today, the birthor's three, three, three. The conclusion has been that fathers do not make use of common rights to a minor extent. There are rich reasons for that. In a job market, we hear a loud voice saying that we are still dealing with cultural differences in some way, as it were, the extortizing might be said. It is a pressure on fathers in the labour market not to make common use of the rights. There is a horn eye, and they receive this message from all too many employers, unfortunately, that it is not desirable for the men to share the rights. Likewise, mothers suffer the same prejudice. All too often, you hear too often the discussion that mothers are inclined not to make common use of the rights, as if it were somehow evidence of a bad mother not to do so. We can only assume that the cultural pressure will remain the same, that fathers do not use the same rights together, and that mothers will use it to the full. That means that this change will usually take eight months for mothers and four fathers. At the top of that, there is additional pressure that we still have sex pay at work. Men usually earn 15% higher than women, minimum I would say. We also know exactly how this happens. It is not that men and women are employed in a wide variety of terms when they start working at a job market. In the first few years, including those, they will be cut apart. because of family disorders, that mothers are usually longer from work than fathers do. Therefore, this is a fundamental factor, and it is a complete disgrace for the council to ask to change his mind on the clear course that came from yesterday on with an agreement plan on equality, that this division should be five, five, two. There was a clear message to the minister on the details of this case. Now the council sends the clear messages, if this motion is accepted, that we have thought of overnight, and that it is better to have four, four, four, four. Hv. The manager of this change proposal, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, said that the charges on this matter were a section of the Commission's coverage. There are ten reports of the matter with a welfare committee. One of these comments says that the five, five, two, may be unfortunate. The remaining nine agree with the complete change. The labour market partners have agreed fully with it, and so have the Women's Rights Association. It would be interesting if the above mentioned points changed their mind over one statement, as they seem to be about to become the case here. The requirement for the Independence Party in this matter to disappear from five, five, two. Let's talk about things the way they are. It is necessary for the Independence Party to be removed from five, five, two. Since it is to be entrusted with a minister who will work for it, I ask, won't it be the continued demand of the Independence Party within the government community for the disappearance of five, five, two? Should we be confident that the proposal will come back just the same? The bill itself is the highest. Department of Social Affairs offered five, five, two split, and clear steps to reach five, five, two. For some reason, the majority of the welfare committees want to tear in and say that it is impossible, must be examined further, and a minister must make another suggestion for the next fall. What is the point of the play if it is only for a minister to return the next autumn with the same suggestion of five, five, two? Why, then, can we not complete that discussion now and then? Last night we agreed that that's the way we were going. It's kind of amazing. Over the years, it has been fundamental to match the position of the sexes in the labour market. This isn't some game with a month, it's a basic difference between whether each parent's right is five months and two times, or whether the right of each parent is four months and four times. This is fundamental. This would be a disgrace to our international equality talk. All the rest of the North countries work on the same terms we've been working on so far, remembering the exchange and having the right as equal. In this discussion, it may well be that the right of single parents is considered in certain cases. It is possible, then, for ministers to sit over it and wonder if there are any possibilities for this without parental rights to be met with their children, to meet with a single parent where the right of another is wrong, and to be destroyed. Trying to find a solution may be an excellent process for the Ministerial Conference Committee. Granted, the path that does not violate the right of parents to join their children who are not less important in this exchange is difficult to handle. I can't believe that the State Department would really ask the General to be as downtrodden as if the majority of the council were to be changed overnight. Last night's agreement was a happy, clear message from the council agreed together, but the council is going to change her mind today. I hope this adjustment proposal will simply be retracted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u45	A respectable president. We will discuss a very important subject that is also very enjoyable political discussion, the birthworm. I'm not going to have a lot of political discussions about it, as I'm excited to have a general review of the birthal law to take all that conversation. There are so many things we can't resolve in this case because it's only about the prolongation of maternity. That's why it's very good, but it's very isolated. The problem is to extend the birthworm from nine months to ten. That's what we're doing with this case, and it's supposed to be a celebration. How important it is to extend the birthworm, extend the time that children spend enjoying association with their parents! The biographer agreement required that the orc be allowed up to 12 months. It was originally the highest. Minister to wait to introduce the division of the months until the full reexamination has arrived. It would also discuss how single - parent families will be dealt with or when another parent does not enjoy it and that is not the case. There are also many other subjects. It was already to bring the full review. It was required that the 12 months immediately come in so that it would be absolutely certain that it would happen if anything happened. That's why it's all over now. All I've heard is that the smaller part of the council keeps calling for good work and professional work. Well, let's do the same, then, let's give this professional job a little bit of time for the strategists to prepare it and then bring the overall review in October. Then we can discuss how we are best divided for 12 months so that the child's interests, equality and interests are the best of loyalty. What we're talking about right now and what this discussion is about is that we make sure that our birthworm is extended within the next year for ten months and in 2021 for 12 months. We are increasing the number of months from three to four that are single earmarked to each parent, and we must give the committee room to find out the best results. Many opinions are involved. I'm not going to discuss them all here, but I always like to discuss the birthworm because it has so many views that can be raised. Two of them have been discussed mainly today, and they are in this bill that is normal, since this is a contract between a workforce partner and the birthworm is a labour market. It is about the interests of the labour market and the equality issues, both important issues, but it is also about what is best for the child. We've made a lot of laws and a lot of Congress laws here that we want to do everything in our child's best interest. Then there is the family self - determination rights, the self - determination rights of women and men, and the best of the family. There's something we need to take into of this, too. There are other things that matter too. The commission made it clear that the reporters, in turn, rejoiced to extend the maternity of this matter. It's the foundation of this case, and it's all the reviews. Some reporters chose not to express themselves about the exchange, just talking about what was best for the child and repeatedly referred to the overall review. The issues presented here and the adjustment proposal assume that we will increase from three to four, and it will only show the conclusions of the committee. All talk about anything else is simply to mislead the discussion in this fine language, that we are making sure that we are giving birth to 12 months. Surely all of us would agree that the right of a child is the privilege of enjoying these 12 months with his parents. That's what it's all about, and I hope the discussion can be about it and that we'll let the overall review take place. Then let us take the political discussion about the way we feel it best to reach that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of this speech. I've got quite a few questions for you, though. A senator, but let's do a few things. Is the Independence Party opposed to five, five, two times the vote we made yesterday? That must be the first question, the natural question, since it was the clear will of the General yesterday, when we agreed on an equality plan to extend the birthor to 12 months and the exchange should be five, five, two. Was a what? A senator didn't agree with himself when he voted with that proposal yesterday? He's here recommending that we change our minds as a council and give the message that it's four, four, four, unless otherwise decided. Third, I ask: Is it? A senator did not just agree with the fine adjustment that lies before him. paritaprevir Jónsson Ingi's son, that if not determined otherwise, we have simply decided for ten months, four, two, four, two, and then a minister offers his suggestions about 12 months later so that the General Assembly has not been legally appointed four, four? I know the whole discussion, and the labour market demand that the 12 months be legalized now because the labour market members did not trust this government to keep that promise any other than that it would be legalized here and now. I also think I know something else that calls them to my fourth question. Senator: Was this export applied to the labour market parties? Is it the labour market party's requirement that the 12 months be legalized, even though this means that the council takes a U-turn from the discussion that has so far been about the prolongation of the birthworm and its exchange? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u47	A respectable president. There are no precise and well-declared plans for the Independence Party, and I know that there are as many of us as there are. In general, I believe that there should be months of choice and that there should be fewer than but not completely choice. I think it's important to make sure that the children get as much separation as possible with their parents. Then we just need to take a closer look, and I trust this committee will do it, how the baby's gonna get for 12 months, and that both parents have three, four, five, six months, whatever's best. I just want to see a decent job and numbers behind it before I make a final statement about it. It is quite normal for us to discuss equality and an equal plan for providing the exchange of five, five, two. It may be only natural when the birth certificate comes in as a labour law that they look in that direction too. On the other hand, if we were to talk about a baby's womb, I am not sure that this would be the final result. It's the kind of work I hope this committee is considering what's best for the child. We need it number one, two and three, just as we've agreed in child law. We need to be aware of where we are discussing these matters and what viewpoint we put first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u48	Mr. President. I can't say more than answer him. I am very disappointed by a senator. Of course, the discussion about what is best for your child that always comes up is normal. It is a fundamental privilege for a child to associate with his parents. But so far, we have drawn close to the discussion of birthworm from a very clear balance point in which we guarantee the child 12 months to associate with his parents in these important first months, clearly by extending the birthworm, while at the same time making sure that there will not be an increase in equal rights in the labour market. Hence, since the beginning the importance of the five, five, two divisions has been expressed. The independent party just seems to disagree with that approach. The Independence Party, which violates the cornerstones of the workforce and the relationship between an equal talk in the labour market at a labour market. There is a reason why numerous reports have been written on this and always have the same conclusion. Of course, if this government was to establish yet another group of workers, it must be determined, perhaps the greatest achievement of this government so far, to the number of working groups and many committees that have been established in matters that have been discussed long ago. I'm gonna pray. A senator to answer this question: Would he disagree with himself when he approved five, five, two yesterday? Does he find it a pleasure to elevate the respect of the Generals to demand that the Council change their mind over the night's basic approach to this matter, that we disappear from the decisions we made yesterday that would include five, five, two, to decide that it would be four, four, four?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u49	A respectable president. I've kept saying here that the context of this matter in which we first place our priorities depends. When we use the birthworm as an equalizer tool - it's a very strong and good equal device, I agree with it, and we've done it - it's only natural to have a heading of five, five, two, as shown in the Appreciative Plan. We also need to consider this from other programmes adopted at the General Assembly, where there should not be inconsistencies. This has been done all along, so professional work is to be done. I just want to see her results so we can do the best we can. We can't discuss this as if there are no more devices we have in the equal struggle and as if we haven't had any results so far. Lucky for us, we've made a lot of bad luck. As the system is now, the employer does not know in advance whether the father or mother will take six months or whether they will be distributed as much as we can do today. I think we have a very good system, which we should continue to develop with the best information, in the best interests of the child, so that it will help us in equality, help us make the workforce more powerful and the welfare community. What we are discussing here today is that we are extending the ore for 12 months, which is a great deal of conflict, that is, in the government covenant, and therefore we must celebrate. Let us trust the minister to bring this matter into the October, and then we can take the final issue on the subject. If something happens, as it has often happened at the workplace, it is very important to have 12 months of safety and that some systems take over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u50	A respectable president. I'm going to start by sharing it with what. When I was a member of a council member in the past, I joined in putting this bill through that council, and I didn't give any notice because I liked it and trusted to take it to the end of the council. The bill presented by the minister is a good guess. It's about extending the birthworm to 12 months and doing so in a way that I agree with, but the senator disagrees. As we have seen, there is a discussion that needs to take place in this room. I find that the majority of the welfare committees were counting on just the first step, from nine to ten months, but they do well by spending four, four, and two months. Hv. The senator noted that the political debate over the final transition should take place here when the professional work of the committee, which takes place with the full reexamination, when it comes to the conclusion of that committee, should be discussed in a chamber as to how we feel about the final division of the 12 months, but I am not quite able to agree with the proposal that is being placed in place, with just one provisional principle, four, four months apart. Anything else the senator recommended to me was the approved change in my proposal. I'd like to ask you if the Senator doesn't really agree that my proposal will succeed and that a minister will simply be assigned to bring a bill for the implementation of the 12 months without the council putting in some frame here and now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u51	A respectable president. That's exactly what we're doing here. The changes made by the committee are in place for 12 months. We are ensuring that something will delay the arrival of the bill in October - which is no indication today that it will happen, the staff is on their way and was started before the bill was started. The original plan of the Minister was to submit only in 2020, as was seen in the way of consultation - but if anything happens, we feel safer about what will be delayed beyond the next year's 20200/2021. Then it's safer to do this. But we're going nowhere further or less than the system that's going to be running 2020. We do not have too much influence on the current professional process. We just let it work in peace. I think we're going out as mild as we can. Still, we make sure that it will be 12 months, and it is clear that the system will work because some of these procedures could do the same. It could be twelve, zero, if we don't make the months in any way in the law. I believe we should proceed as the system is while professional work is being carried out and hopefully will never try the provisional principle, that's what we're offering.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u52	A respectable president. I don't know why the majority of the welfare committees are so worried that something will come up in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Child Services so he can't turn up the bill. I don't know what to do, but he wants to be on temporary alert to ensure that if the minister doesn't bring up a bill he's often told he's going to bring the value of certain and certain divisions in the 12-month maternity clinic, which is implemented without the political discussion that the senator proposes the need to make this decision, without the professional work that will take place on the basis of the overall opinion of the birthworm system, without anything I can hear better than that the senator himself calls for. Then something's coming up. Then we are making a decision without any professional and political basis. I'm more concerned about this than that the social and child-friendly minister falls on time with the bill, comes too late on it, and that we are forced to agree by some automatic extension of the birthworm. I reiterate the question: Is it not nice to accept my proposal and accept the political debate on the implementation of 12 months of birth holiday, not on the basis of an adjustment made here late yesterday, but on the basis of professional views and political discussions in this hall in the autumn?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u53	A respectable president. If more of the welfare committee would have thought that it was an adjustment in the course of change. The senator's work is more convenient than the one we offered would have made it available in the beginning. It is easy to say that we consider this to be the most reasonable way because it ensures the extension of the birth serpent. We secure the current system we are currently initiating by changing the substitution so that instead of whether the parent has an earmark for three months, it will have an earmarked four months. We're going to make sure that system continues. I'm not afraid anything will come up. Still, we know the story of this hall, sometimes a month - long break and a plan, even though I can't see in this case that should cause it. That's why I think it's a completely dangerous change, and it's just a bit more sensible to make sure it's this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u54	A respectable president. At the end of this discussion, I would like to speak briefly. There's been an attempt to make it somehow that the Pirantars are very opposed to the church because we speak against this horrible, miserable, bad deal. It's a lot of bullshit, but we want every equal philosophy of life, even though it's the most well - thought - out imagination in the religions after all. But in order to be perfectly clear, all our criticisms about this terrible contract, not about individual opinions, beliefs, or religious beliefs, are about the worst. I'm just saying this to make it absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u55	V.E.G. President. We're in the 3rd. ... abouta fund-a-weapon bill. A committee was called between the 2nd and 3rd. and I would like to briefly explain the discussions of the committee as well as the changes made in the subject. The committee called for financial response on the basis of comments made in the review of a government accountant. The Ministry came to a staff meeting and gave a special memo, as well as the Ministry responded to the questions asked by the members of the Committee at the meeting on individual teams and on expenses in relation to conditions 26 g. a law on public financial matters that stipulates a temporary, unpredictable, and unavoidable proposal, as it has not been possible to cope with other options. This is certainly the will of the Committee, and it was considered to be a major part and a smaller part of 2. ., reviewing these conditions, and whether they can be revised without giving up on the support and discipline that such conditions need to provide and reach the goal of reducing the value of funds. The Commission then stresses that the use of reserves, both in terms of the problems and the general reserves, needs to be more specific and that the committee can monitor this use and have a regular overview of the use of them at the same time, for they will be used as the budget for them; they will be used accordingly, and even before, from the middle of a year, as authorized by the law. It is then important that the annual reports of the Minister explain any variation and response to it, including the use of reserves, both by means of the budget and by means of budgeting. It's about the context that is clearly the object of the law, and it uses the committee it took. The Commission then assessed the need for a systematic review of the official financial law in relation to the experience that has been established since the time they were accepted and accepted, January 1, 2016. The rest of the money didn't think there was a need for a follow-up party, but I wanted to promote it. My colleagues to the bottom. The budget can improve better. Here's a couple of adjustments I'd like to propose that came up between discussions. One suggestion is an adjustment to the changes made in the bill itself and the other is about a change that occurred at 2nd. The bill itself for financial support was suggested to a total of 9 billion. K. increased from investment to business with the transport board. It has now been found that there were only 8 million. K. ... infinancing on your investment team and there'd be an inexplicable position if the situation became less than 1 billion. K. ... oncharacters. Now it's a suggestion to move 1 million. K. back to the correction of the transfer in the bill. The 2nd. it was then assumed that in the second instance 12.3 billion would be moved. K. A management project of health insurance support to the Akureyri Hospital for the transport of home care projects to the hospital. The financial rights to this team of health insurance are all registered as business initiatives, not business contributions. So the current license stands with minus 12.3 million. K. and now it is suggested that there be an amendment on Health Insurance and that there be an increase of 12.3 billion in sector budgets. K. versus a decrease in management capacity of 12.3 billion. K. In itself, nothing great would have happened, but this would not have looked good on paper, a respectable president, and we fail here. I want to use this opportunity to thank the Committee for work on the bill. It is safe to say that the committee is united in striving to improve the work practices and practices and to sharpen all aspects of my activities in connection with what I covered earlier, the use of reserve funds, and our aim to reduce the scope of the budget, as well as all that we can better discuss with the legal frame in the financial process, including the bill we address here, thus strengthening the monitoring of the committee and the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u56	A respectable president. Of course, all members of the Committee want what I can best see and strive for the future, but we're still working on budgets. We've been doing this lately, and I don't see that the promised future projects have been used in the current financial process. I'd like to ask you what. The head of the Board of Education on three committee opinions, in the opinion of the State Reunion on whether or not the addition of funding to the Congregational Conference is in progress to a law on public finances, a memo provided by the Ministry, which says that the church meeting is a law on public finances and, thirdly, the Ministry's opinion on the basis of committee hearings on whether there is a law on public finances or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u57	V.E.G. President. Regarding the church meeting, it was handled very well by the committee. I know why. At the same time, a senator has explained in his numerous talks and referred to the five - year rule. I appreciate the explanation that the law works because there's an additional contract on the basis of an earlier agreement. The other two questions came out as I was molding the answer to the first question. [[Up front.]] Yeah, sure, at the fundraiser. I appreciate it so much it'll last. The Ministry brought in an excellent summary of why they were approved for financial contributions. We considered it well on the committee, and I have a memo on that subject. We discussed this quite frankly, too, in 2 Corinthians. ... because treaties were open and we see it repeatedly in the budget, we can say that because of the agreements that have been so alive through at least Three additional allowances I can remember, we're glad it's gone with these additional contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u58	Mr. President. There was an interesting meeting on the budget and how it resists public financial laws, but I requested that the funds be made available to committees between 2 and 3. to get a detailed explanation from the Ministry on how every budget was passed on public funds or not, at least excerpts on the points presented in the Management Board of Government Accounting that appeared to be incompatible with public financial laws. These include payment, actually storage, part of the church contract for a fund that the Government Accounting said would clearly violate the laws of public finance if you read between the lines in the founded case as such. So it is interesting to see in the criticism of the Ministry of State Review which states that this is strictly under the laws of public finance and then see and hear the ministry of the Ministry of State on the same issue as it was not so clear in the Ministry's case that holding the church meeting in this way would be under official financial law. More correctly, the ministry's response was that this additional amount of money that was missing from the church agreement that was kept aside to be in a better position against the church was introduced into the general reserve to ensure that at the end of the year, there would be a source of authority. The Ministry knew, however, that it would eventually cost them. A good part of the reserve, the 1% that's supposed to be in a reserve for the entire state funds, was set aside in advance for the church benefit of the fundraiser. It reduces the power of the reserve to cope with cases that arise in the budget of the year to be a reserve for all the rest that is unpredictable under the laws on public finance. This was set aside over 1 billion of the predictable budget and added to the reserve fund. At the end of the year, the reserve is not enough for all the accidents that arise in the year. Taking the factors that fit perfectly for the use of reserves and the use of funds are higher than the reserves so that something needs to be brought into the budget. But more is needed in financial support, but the situation with the church meeting was predictable over and over again. To the brain, it's good to be free at last. We've got a new, bad deal, and we're sticking to it. All the plagiarism with the budget just doesn't work out, and that's where I simply criticize the process. You can't say: We're going to make good plans for the future, but we're going to let this go, this is now the last year that's so fucked up. I can't quite agree that when there's a chance, it's obviously going to be better in the future when you can't stand up to it. On these lines, I say, though, more of the initiatives in the budget bill, as shown at a meeting of the legal committee between 2 and 3. However, despite repeated attempts to substantiate which sources in the smaller part of the budget do not fit official financial laws and therefore have no place in budgets. The question was asked and never answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. I don't have a direct question in my own life. A senator, but for his last words, we are reminded that we are paying votes for typical financial expenditures. Sure went wrong. A senator, well - versed and acknowledged this, but because of the church meeting, the discussion has become a real delay. A senator has visited many times. The decision was made here at the time not to place a sum of money into a budget bill to disrupt these contracts and negotiations. We must have some understanding of it as if I have a clear understanding of it, as a government accountant does or did. A senator criticizes that this is taking place in the budget bill. Yet, there are viewpoints that support it. Let me remind you that we are voting for typical financial expenditures due to increased unemployment, due to the court of illegal retrospective declines, the high costs of a number of health insurance workers, reevaluation of obligatory expenses and correction of microenergy pensions for farm time. There are 95% of the expenditures, but further expenses up to 5%, which are also reasoned on the bill to be temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u60	A respectable president. No, it was very well and very clear in the Ministry case of the meeting between 2 and 3. that more of the proposals are in line with official financial laws. However, there are things that do not fit the laws on government finances, and despite repeated questions, the source of that law was never obtained. I can count to 8 million for Land Court. There is nothing unpredictable about them, a decision about new expenses that does not belong in the budget. I can think of other examples, but I didn't want to do it because I wanted the Ministry of finance to be telling the truth and right about it, that it would be logical, so that he could be criticized, not my reasons. The argument, however, never came. At the end of the meeting, the Ministry emphasized that it was all good and right, but after a relatively dramatic conversation at the last meeting, it was shown that more was under the law on public finance - but not all of it. The majority were not interested in knowing which of these regulations was out of harmony with official financial laws, and we actually sit there. What we're paying a vote on in this budget is that more part of the council doesn't consider his role to be a critical point of financial contributions that obviously cannot be reasoned under the conditions of government law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u61	Mr. President. I recommend to the members of the European Committee on Environment and Transport, to the Management Board and to the Management Board, to the Management Board and to the Management Board, to the Management Board and to the Management Board of Sheep. The Environment and Transport Committee discussed this matter proposed by the Parliamentary Conference and the rest of the convention is the manager. The committee met with a good visitor who had sent reviews of the matter in most ways, while the commission received reviews from Dr. Ingibjörg Jónsdóttir, professor at the University of Iceland, Land Health, National Fundament, Health, Food Institute, the National Institute of Natural Health, Ólafur Arnalds, and the Association of Nature. The proposal suggests that marine eco-efficiency and agriculture ministers on the other hand and the environment and resource minister will be assigned to review the use of public funds for the quality management of sheep farms. They will also set up new national thresholds for use where there must be no payment to the manufacturer that does not meet relevant criteria. At the same time, existing agricultural reform programs will be replaced, land users will be reimbursed on January 1, 2020, which are obviously far-fetched, but the case was submitted early. A fall. The proposed report shows that the agricultural component of the quality management of sheep culture is the part of the petition for farmers which is bound to national and land use criteria. It was noted to the Commission that they had been assigned in 2000 to deal with the mismanagement of ecosystems and major soil erosions, in line with the staging of the Agricultural Research Institute and Landing. This feature, however, came into effect in 2007. The report shows that Ólafur Arnaldur, a professor at the National Farming University of Iceland, showed this in his work, in the wrong: Severe stumbles on the implementation of a quality management component in sheep farming, published in June s., that there were defects in the implementation of a quality management component. In the management of the environment and transport committee, it was observed that informers and guests agree on the importance of improved land management, clearer criteria for sustainable use of land, more efficient financial resources and efficient management with the implementation of the European Commission's quality management programme in sheep culture. However, there were differences in opinions about the approach to the project and the procedure suggested by the proposal. Geological Protection, the National Institute of Natural Nature, the Organization of Nature and Dr. Ólafur Arnaldur agree with the proposal as well as the land healing with the awareness that public funds are not taken into account for the extent to which they are assigned to specific projects outside the Agency. At that time, Dr. Ingibjörg Svala Jónsdóttir welcomes this review of the quality management of sheep culture offered by the proposal. However, the national group of sheep farmers does not support the proposal's approval. Last December, a new total land - healing law was adopted, No. 155/2018, and took the songs already valid. The majority believe that with the law, both the laws can be strengthened and the management of plant and soil protection than on the basis of Article 11. The law is now working on the statute of sustainable land use. The agricultural process, in its review, points to the importance of a reference and definition of the regulations for the quality of sheep production, which are based on, among other things, the rules and definitions of the regulations for the quality of the sheep. 5 / 15 How to Be a Good Communicator, No. 99/1993 will be submitted in accordance with the Commission on sustainable land use when available. The majority agree with the view that the quality of the sheep's production refers to the products produced in accordance with 41 C.E. package and Regulation No. 511/2018, of the quality of sheep production. At a meeting of the Commission with representatives of the Food Institute, it was observed that land use is only one aspect of a number of sheep productions must be met to meet the quality-controlled production requirements and was referred to in the above guidelines for the quality-controlled sheep product, which includes the use of sheep products. for equipment and environment, products, agricultural, agriculture, feeding, health, drug use, crops, agriculture, and related factors. A national reform plan should be prepared for home countries, world-regions and rights that do not meet the requirements for land use in the manufacture of the Member States, i.e. ... fora land of bait. For the Committee, experts in eutrophication and soil protection pointed out the problems they consider to be involved in the implementation of the management component and the importance of improvement in the quality management process. According to Dr. Ólafur Arnaldur's review, he had a lack of logic in his writings, in the wrong, that producers did not have to meet the minimum standards for the condition of the country, but it was only part of a sheep's pasture in the country and a small amount of agriculture. He felt that the criteria for use were too modest, that they did not meet professional criteria, as well as which would not have been used in the EEA's professional knowledge for the development and implementation of a quality control component. Then Dr. Ólafur discussed the definition of sustainable land use, but he believed that the issues of agriculture and sustainability should be addressed under the Environment and Resource Ministry. He also pointed out that the new land use criteria would be established in accordance with the new land healing laws. The majority feel that improving land use, careful management and efficiency of funds into the agriculture component of sheep culture is consistent with the government's emphasis on improving land use and climate change. The majority of them want to take into account the proposal's activities, which are designed specifically to develop ways to improve the use of the quality management funds and to support good management in this area. These are the co-work projects of the Ministry of Business and Development, Iceland's Farming Association, State Rentation, and Country Group of Sheeps, which began in 2017 that their last initiative was linked to the 2016 Convention. The ten-year-old Gólinda project is designed to monitor and assess the state of plant and soil resources in Iceland, including with the aim of strengthening more scientific support under control, with the idea that sheep bait will become self-sustained for the future. The global assessment of the state of the agricultural and soil resources of the country and the development of sustainable resource use indicators should be submitted regularly and the first results of this project are expected to be prior to the early 2020. On the basis that, as well as with other available data, scientific conclusions on sustainable use will be developed and the greater part of the work may be involved in improving the use of the public resources used for quality management and at the same time strengthening good management practices in this area. In view of the induction of new land healing laws, including the implementation of a sustainable land use directive, a greater part is suggesting that this proposal be referred to the government into the extensive work now being carried out in this field. The majority also agree with the aim of the proposal, directing to the Marine and Agriculture Ministers and the Environmental and Resource Ministers, however, that the Ministry cooperates with regulations with clear regulations on sustainable agriculture, more efficient management with the implementation of Member States' quality management in sheep culture, aims for it to be in line with the laws of nature protection, agriculture and agricultural legislation. The majority also request that agricultural and marine eco-efficiency and environmental and resource ministers be involved in reporting on the progress of the project to the environment and transport committee by September 1, 2020. With reference to the above, the majority of the items suggest that the proposal be referred to the government. Jón Gunnarsson was absent from the case but is considered to be in line with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the heading, as well as the one that stands here as chairman, Chairman Bergþór Ólason, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Guðjón Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Jón Gunnarsson, as we have seen, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, and Vilmillum Árnason. As director of the Council of Parliament, I now declare my satisfaction by reaching the point where two Ministers come together to the table, i.e. Agricultural and environmental minister, working together in this accordance with regulations and work. I look forward to getting the next fall on the board of environmental and transport committee reporting on progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. Katrín Hanna Friðriksson for the history of members of a committee party with a contraband proposal to conduct a judicial review of the provision of public funds for the quality management of sheep farms. I believe this is a good conclusion, that, in view of the induction of new land transplants, including with the sentence of the Regulation on sustainable land use, the case should be referred to the government into the extensive work that is being carried out in this field and traced to the Commission's opinion, including Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I came here primarily to trace the developments in agriculture. I consider all the steps taken to improve agriculture to be of great importance, but my experience is that in the 1970s and1980, the most effective users of the country will realize how much land use can be improved and what results can be obtained. Then, in 1990, Bjords made the land whole. In the year 2000, the agricultural part became part of the sheepfold contracts and the agriculture component part of the sheep - raise quality management program. In 2016, the Grólindar became a member of the Committee. It is therefore aimed at strengthening both the evaluation of sustainable agriculture and the management and its follow-up. The Gólindar project is developing and there will be important steps just ahead of time, and as the Committee considers, a turning point has been made a year ago when new farming laws were introduced. They're being introduced. Then I'd like to back up the main objective of the proposal which is to improve the cooperation of marine and agricultural ministers and environmental and resource minister on land use. I think this is a very important input into the cooperation that all of the land users have called, especially around forestry and agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u63	President. Thank you. A manager for cooperation in finding a good way for this suggestion. I considered the proposal itself to be put forth with good intentions and intentions to improve the situation and that there were many very good things in it, to link the Ministry of Environment and Nature more closely with these matters. That's why I thought it was important that we catch them. However, I believed that the suggestion was made in such a way that it could not be approved, and in fact, I felt that she worked against her goals with the great hurry that was set there. That's why I think it's very important, and I want to thank you again for my cooperation with that, that I've managed to find this good course for the suggestion. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee can then monitor the situation and have developed this important link with the Environment Ministry by referring to the proposal to the highest level. Governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u64	Mr. President. I really can't resist the possibility of extending this discussion a little, and facing what. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér. It's true that we worked together on an environmental and transport committee to establish this so that people can enjoy both sides. However, I would like to think of it as a contingency that I disagree with them. The senator said the proposal could not have been approved. True, it would have been necessary to move a date and something like that, but there is a reason why it was submitted. Hv. paritaprevir In view of Anna Sævarsdóttir negative attitude, she may well have seen that in all those years, even decades, the change has now been just below the fact that the matter is starting to appeal to more people. The environmental concerns have become stronger, and the public's viewpoints, not just some hot environmentalists or farmers who have everything to do with it, are gradually opening up the eyes of people to the use of our country, no matter what sector, must be at peace and harmony with nature. All the people of the country have an interest. - I've lost my fiber now, but what I was just going to point out is that when things have gone a little long, limping in the same tire tracks and people are somehow in need of an elbow to push them forward - that's what they're doing, and there's a great need for them. I declare, however, the nature of the matter, that I am on this compromise proposal, and I am very comfortable with it. The conclusion of bringing these two ministers together to work on the case is probably the best thing we could get out of this in the harmony and harmony of all views, so I celebrate it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u65	President. I'm returning all compliments. No, but just to explain my case here, I understand why. A senator's rights to his opinion when I make such a statement. Well, I guess that counts. A senator said that if she had been approved, the proposal she and her associates in the woodland would have been valid. Hv. A senator referred to history and evolution and that some felt that it would take an elbow to move the case forward, but my opinion is that over the past few years, there have been steps in this direction. The most important part of them was the extensive collection of data on the current trend. If the motion had remained unchanged, I would have believed that it had all been deactivated and that we had been at the point of not seeing the developments that have occurred with the evidence that will come from GróLind. The first data were due to arrive last week but was delayed due to the weather and did not arrive until the beginning of the next year. That is why I thought that the proposal would be moved by a sledgehammer with a sledgehammer. However, I agree with the ideologies behind the proposal, as I previously traced it to the Environment Ministry and the Protection Act. That's why I felt that it was so important for us to achieve the ideologies with the suggestion that the greater part of the magazine suggested. Besides, it's only natural for us to do what we need. A senator disagrees about the early proposal, but I also did not leave the committee's meetings that I felt that it was not something I could support, even though I supported the ideologies behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u66	A respectable president. I would like to present a panel of members of the General and Education Committee on proposals for decision-making of police operations and practices. The proposal includes assigning the President of the General Assembly to submit to the General Commission to provide a legal bill for a special agency on the FBI that has an independent surveillance of police operations and practices. The committee took over the comments and visitors as a custom and discussed the matter, suggesting that the proposal be accepted with the changes that I will readily explain. I'm going to make another attempt to break the tradition of simply reading up the committee's opinion and further explaining its contents in my own words. Then I refer to that as a further explanation. V.E.G. Minister of Justice has recently discussed publicly the need for changes in police surveillance in view of the need for police surveillance. She has been working now for three years or so, and many things have been discovered that can be added, e.g. her lack of research permission and ability to deal with the problem. Today, the work of the Commission is primarily about correcting the complaint and charges received by the police either through the police itself or by the citizens of the country. In its time, in March 2015, when this proposal was first proposed, that committee had not started work. This is one of the changes that have occurred since the proposal was first proposed, and it affects the progress of the matter. The changes in the Committee are about to tailor the proposal accordingly, including ideas of greatness. Minister of Justice at the highest. A minister has explained in the media, so rather than necessarily forming a new agency, as expected in the original proposal, the proposal is extended to the highest degree. A minister of justice is allowed more time to use the existing committee or to decide the arrangement in other ways that would be more convenient to consider how the experience is appreciated by the committee and other institutions that could affect the way things should be done. Something else that has changed since the proposal was first proposed is that police studies are now at university. In the original motion, former police officers were not to observe this surveillance of the police. There has been criticism and anxiety, especially from the police, former police officers, and, in fact, others in the administrative system, because they would lack insight and insight in the police work that might be appropriate for this surveillance, especially if the Agency was to investigate the matter itself, i.e. The Agency, the Committee or whatever it's about to be. There are two viewpoints on the same part, one that we want to ensure that professional matters are being carried out and that investigators have knowledge of the language category needed to handle matters well, and the other may create a suspicion as to the fact that a full understanding of how things are done is so that investigators will experience in some way more understanding toward the person being under investigation than those who are complaining. As I mentioned earlier, police studies have moved at a university level since the proposal was originally proposed. It's a very positive development, in my opinion, and in the opinion of most people who know about it, I suppose. Therefore, it is quite possible to believe that someone will go to police school and graduate, with the knowledge and experience needed to do this work without necessarily being experienced in police work. However, in the opinion of the committee, it is left open. This is suggested and suggested to those who study these studies as part of an education or experience. It's just a little bit opener. Also, in the original motion, the new institution will be a member of the General Assembly, such as the World Council agent or State Accounting Committee, and in the light of what I mentioned earlier, to the highest level. The Minister of Justice has already proclaimed that there will be a review of the expansion of the committee, when it has reached its highest level. Minister of Justice itself, and not bound to the suggestion. It is then assumed that there will be a new experience of police surveillance, as well as a report mentioned in the Committee's Work, a report from the University of Copenhagen from 2017 on the experience of independent surveillance in Denmark. It is of interest to consider what the committee suggests to be new to the work, and as may have been presented, the proposal is directed to the highest level. Minister of Justice, not to the President of the Generals, as before. This allows more time for the job in the form of a bill for independent surveillance. It's up to our spring of 2021 over the fall of 2020. I have now readily explained the content of the committee's opinion but referred to it itself. 782. Under countless writings, the one standing here, the Helgi Way of Hrafn, the son of Gunnarsson, and the voice. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Birggis the Þórarinn of Ármannsson, Steinunn Turnar, Þóra of the Árnadóttir, Jánddor Valdimarsson, Ingi Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Pétursson G.. This is what I would like to describe from my own hand one thing that I feel is not of material concern to myself but of how evolution has been in these matters. This proposal was originally made until 2015, before a police school went to a university degree, as I said earlier and before the police surveillance committee began. At that time, however, there was some argument as to whether such a physical structure was needed. When they're at the highest. The Minister of Justice then proposed that it be willing to stay and see, examine the experience, and then evaluate if there is any basis for asking the proposal again. A few years passed, and we were allowed to see the annual report from a police surveillance committee. According to the movers, it was very early in view that there was no reason to expand police surveillance. And there's always some nuance between politicians about exactly how they want to implement it, how elaborate institutions they want to develop if any, etc. However, in the handling of this case at the General Assembly, the Minister of Justice recently discussed the taking of initiatives to expand the work of police surveillance committees, referring to a number of aspects that fit very closely with this proposal. So I view it as a case that has come from two different directions but that there is a solid fusion here where this proposal is new, what is contained in it, and the evidence it suggests to the highest degree. Then a minister of justice can notice the loose formula found in the suggestion. Then I must also say that based on my own personal opinion, there are some things that I imagine we'll reason in the presence of the existing bills. As an example, I feel alone that such an institution belongs under the Council. I'm not 100 percent sure about that, but I'm just thinking. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice has put it this way, if I recall correctly, that the relationship between this unit, this patrolr, with the Council, would be examined. I think that these arguments will only have their time and time and that they will be considered to be the best of those matters, as this is mainly a process of implementation not directly related to the basic prince himself, which is the way we are going to handle objections and the maintenance of social authority. The police have the unique ability to exercise physical authority in their regular activities each day, and therefore this is a call from the movers of this proposal for independent surveillance and for which they can investigate matters against the police on their own terms, on their own initiative and, of course, by some defined legal framework. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I'm glad that this proposal is supported by the Committee, thanks to the Committee for the cooperation, and also the highest possible support. Minister of Justice for taking the initiative to bring up the same issue of independent police surveillance. I must add, however, that as often happens when we discuss society's institutions, where they are supposed to provide some support or objection or even change some arrangement, this is not a criticism of the police. This is not a criticism of police work or police work. This is simply a normal part of living in a society that has power to exercise physical power. I think it's important that you get things completely clear, and that is, in fact, in line with what you've heard from police officers, former and professional, that they think that it's better to have more independent surveillance so that their frame would be clearer because it's the firm will of all the people I've talked to about these matters in the police that things are clear and professional, that there's a good way to settle all doubt. Of course, police officers want their job mostly faithfully and in accordance with the law. It's shown in every conversation with the police, that I think, at least, the conversations I've had with them so far. Now I'm not going to have this further, a respectable president, thanking the Committee again for a good job and looking forward to a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for his story on this committee party. This case has received a number of coverages at the General and Education Committee, and as he did well aware, the conclusion was that they met together on the suggestions presented here, and it includes an important decision to make a certain review in this field. When the matter first came into my mind, and perhaps other members of the committee did not question it, as well as then. A senator, such as the one mentioned, wanted to make sure that there was a strong and independent police surveillance. There is no debate about the importance of such intervention and the fact that resources are available to get to the bottom of issues that can arise when a police officer uses his authority as sensitive to the facts. A senator was referring to his case. So there was no disagreement on the main purpose of the matter, but I and others might be more inclined to consider the established costume of the matter, which was in the original motion. A member of the Parliament that this was an independent agency, a new agency that heard under the Council and the like. We began to think about all kinds of matters in this regard. It can be said that with the results that came from the Committee's work, we have pushed ahead of ourselves to make a final decision in this regard, but a minister of justice is committed to offering suggestions that the council can take on those matters. I'm of the opinion that if we don't use an institution and a committee, it's possible to think well of an independent unit, in the administrative system that has this role. Both independent decision - making committees and independent organizations are reviewed, although they are members of the government's executive domain and are not members of the General Assembly. I'd think the first attack would be closer to going some way. According to the Commission, the decision to have this relatively open but also suggested that in the proposal of a justice minister be reassigned in this respect and that it also be discussed in a way how to expand the Agency's field of activity today that is this special monitoring committee and that the position on how to expand the authority of the committee will be taken. This is in harmony with the discussions that took place within the committee and in conversation with guests. I think that when we realized what our common objective in the matter was, we have managed to set aside an application that, under some circumstances, might have caused a disagreement. I think that when we walked from this committee party, all members of the committee were pretty happy with the outcome. The conclusion will be that it is in fact being determined that from the Minister of Justice, further implementation is being made. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned this is also in harmony with a statement made by the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice in the past few weeks on these matters, so this trial on the part of the Council is important, and it is supposed to be in a way that has a good and broad solid solidarity. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. As many members of Congress serve the purpose of moving on, even if not all of them reach as far as they can, they can draw attention to important and good things. There is good reason to thank a traveling overseer and other committees for their work in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u68	A respectable president. I'm glad this proposal has come this far, proposal to work on the establishment of independent police surveillance. This Pirata policy, in fact, is one of the first scenes that drew my attention to the Piranha and led me to think about walking in that category and combating its policy - our course. By the end of 2013, it was very clear how urgent the need for independent police supervision was when a police officer was at some loss. When I investigated the matter at the time as an independent, professional journalist, I concluded that the arrangement we had failed to meet did not meet the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights and other human rights covenants in Europe for Member States when it comes to respecting the right of the citizens to life and respecting the right of the citizens to refrain from torture and other inhuman or inadequate treatment or punishment. Why? Because positive responsibilities that result from the fact that the State must not take life without very narrow conditions, as well as without exception to torture, inhuman or disrespectful treatment, or even punishment. in the market for suspected violation of these rights, the citizens have the right to perform an independent, efficient research that is available to the public and that the family and the individual themselves should have access to data and information on the progress of the case. Independent, independent of study, is one of the main causes of this positive relation to the government to ensure the right of their citizens to life and their protection from torture and other disrespectful treatments or punishments. If a person leaves life because of a person belonging to the State, the State also has an obligation to implement a study of this matter first but also to be carried out in a way that is above all doubt. This is also true if the charges against torture or any other inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment are involved. This has to be done by an institution that is independent in a fiscal power, which holds a domain of both up and down, i.e. Officers are not to investigate their subordinates, and subordinates are not to investigate their superiors within the same institution. This is to ensure the independence of the investigation. Independence must also be financial, and in the case of police or law enforcement authorities, the initiative of this investigator and the prosecution must be at hand. This proposal does not suggest that the prosecution be brought into question. She'll still be very good, and it's very good to have the highest. Minister of Justice in the hall because I simply wanted to stress the highest level. The Court of Justice agrees with the idea that the individual institution has a prosecution because it guarantees an even greater independence of the Agency and is one of the conditions established by the European Court of Human Rights to ensure the independence of such institutions. It's all done with the rights of the citizens as well as the interests of the police. It has an advantage because an independent agency can review delicate issues that the police cannot necessarily express themselves in public. If the citizens believe in the results of this institution, they can be confident that it is truly independent, neutral, and efficient, it will strengthen our faith in the legal realm. I think it's a good thing that we all want to work for. I'm here to celebrate this fine affair and to thank its special traveling representative, my dear. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, but also whisk. The General and Education Committee for a good job, and I'm impressed. Minister of Justice to the joy of following her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u69	A respectable president. Of course, I'm saying yes to this bill, and I'm very happy to see all these green lights here. I think this is going to be an improvement, both for Western cooperation, but more so for filmmaking in Iceland. I appreciate your support for this good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u70	V.E.G. President. We in the Central category will be involved in a vote on this bill and will suggest that the reviews indicated that the case should be referred to information and overall agriculture policies. We do not violate the fact that the matter will have a success, but we must conclude that the matter is late and we are thinking about why the matter is being accelerated through the council at the same time as the government's government contract of sustainable agriculture and food production is still under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u71	A respectable president. This is a very, very important case. A fundamental change in order that is long out - of - date is being made. The consumers and producers are being returned much of the value of the tollvota that so far have been offered. I've heard the discussion that it's late. That's wrong. On the one hand, I've heard doubt that the benefits of these taxes do not lead to consumers. Research, including In 2015 and 2016, the demolition of tolls and market fees shows that consumers enjoy the demolitions and so forth tax streams.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u72	A respectable president. At the beginning, there was one thing and another good in this matter, and in some respects it is still, but after the treatment of the committee, there was a very tight squeeze in all of this. Even if some step is taken in favour of consumers, the majority of the committee still sit down, and the administrative groups, judging over what is suitable for the market and what is not. For example, in spite of the fact that the market itself and the rise of tourists to this country say otherwise, the members of the board have decided that no more pigs are available. It's got to be said to be the highest. While marine and agricultural ministers complimented him to try to present a case in that subject, the management groups pressed on very tight and, as I say, not for the benefit of consumers. We're going to sit next to each other for a trip. It is an old - fashioned approach, and it is time for us to change the agricultural system in behalf of farmers, to increase the freedom of farmers, and to further support the consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u73	President. As noted in talks, the committee was confined to the time frame. It has also been noted earlier that the information to guide the decision on how to fall within and beyond this protection is very limited. In fact, one of the reasons why this bill was submitted is that the Ministry said that the arrangement so far has been used conflicted with the constitution. That's why it's natural to eliminate it. It's all in an image. What would be best done and best done for all parties, suppliers, consumers and the state, would be taking down this toll, but would bring to the value of the support that is directly paid to the manufacturers. Big loss takes place. The damage the consumers suffer because of tax protection yields relatively little to the livestock plants when they take this tax and accept these tolls on other grounds, perhaps on the merit tax. [[The president calls.]] It would come to lower food prices for the people of the country. It would be more supportive of the agricultural producers, and everyone would make a profit. That's the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u74	Mr. President. In this case of customs and other factors, the employment committee made good changes in the language for the benefit of farmers, consumers, and Icelandic food production. We're going to improve food production, whether in meat, vegetables, or whatever else we can grow here at home. It falls under the UN's climate goal to increase and strengthen domestic production, that we consume most of the food produced in our environment. This is part of it. We change the old and out - of - date arrangement into an predictable arrangement and listen to logical criticism of the matter from garden farmers as well as from those who are in the production of pork. We don't have to transport pigs, but we'll look at them if we have to. Then you'll just have a new case. This is very good after the changes have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u75	President. I'm just gonna fix this. Most of the changes made by a professional health committee were to squeeze it, to make it stronger. That's what the suppliers called and got. [[Up front.]] It's not good for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u77	No, it's not good for consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u78	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u79	Toll protection is not good for consumers, it's economics 101, and everyone knows that, so let's think about it. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u80	I'm going to vote against the case. They're going back to the arrangement they were trying to trace up 2016 when Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson proposed a bill about these contracts, where slowly and slowly, they started to trace up the milkwashing system. This is just getting it back on track. The Contestant Control made it clear what that means. This is then manufacturing, reducing milk production and keeping the price up. It's not good for consumers. There must be an arrangement other than this protection system and the saying of a greeting. It's good to have a quota system when you have fish and you need to ensure sustainable use of that resource, but not when it comes to milk production. That's why we're going to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u81	A respectable president. I just wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for the better-looking progress and good work on this matter. This technical issue makes it possible to cancel documents with electronic entry, and it may take several such technical cases to change wording as e.g. Still attaching paper to today's law. Of course, through the introduction of e - mail forms, we are taking an important step in increasing efficiency, economy, and improved service, and I will work very hard on these issues as well as on other digital emphasis that this government places on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u82	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the legal structure we're in. It's a big step and is designed to promote cultural life in the country, with stage art being a real target. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The General and Education Committee for a very good job as well as the many who have been involved in the processing of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u83	A respectable president. It is a pleasure that we are agreeing to this issue today on increasing public access to information on the government of the Generals. As soon as I'm celebrating this step in transparency, I'd like to justify it when the prime committee gives itself rules on access to information that it does not limit the rights that these laws are intended to give the public and the media specifically, and that it is very clear how the treatment itself is within the Committee, within the Generals' administrations administration, will become when information requests are being made so that the public can understand when he can expect to be answered, whether he has the right to support and so on. It is very important that you do so. Finally, I also encourage the Council's Committee for Presidency and the Supreme Court. The president to have increased the initiative to publish information. Thus we create confidence in the work of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u84	President. This is the best part. It's been a long journey, since the Council adopted in its own time the Birgitta Jónsdóttir, the IMMI proposal for Iceland to create a legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. Then there was a delay, and little was done until the highest point. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, took the matter into his own hands, established a group of members, and made changes in information laws to expand them to cover the General Assembly and the Court's administration. We were working on a board of administration and monitoring committee this spring and we were approved at a council meeting. The law is now accepting how this should be implemented on the Council. This is a way to make a success of the country's transparency and maintenance by the way the Parliament operates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u85	A respectable president. I wanted to come here and thank the Environment and Transport Committee for good work in this case and other relevant issues. However, in this case, which may not be a major concern, Iceland is at the head of the world's policy in transport, especially at sea. The thing we're accepting here guarantees a little bit of our position that we're being looked around the world, how we've been successful in the safety at sea. This bill underscores that we will continue to be in the lead of the countries most successful in managing this resource and ensuring the safety of those who use it at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u86	Mr. President. We walk on green light to meet the future. How happy we are to see that this small but significant change in national health laws is being made in the legislation that databases of brain failure should be made in the custody of surgeons and surgeons in charge of that assignment! It will improve plans, and it will benefit this large group of people in Iceland who have these problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u87	A respectable president. In this matter, the middle class members will be sitting on the green button or sitting by. We don't think it's working well enough, that what happens to the project is not clear enough. Most of us have received comments from the employees of these institutions and member organisations, including about the fire department. Our evaluation is that much better would have been a problem, and in reality it is unclear whether the goals there are to be met. There is, however, a chance to reduce the number of government institutions, there is no question about that. Of course, we require, and will follow it closely, that the minister's problem of action and that nowhere to be turned when it comes to the knowledge and knowledge of the employees involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u88	Mr. President. We in the United States can't support this case. Despite often being able to support the unity of organizations, this matter is simply so badly worked that you cannot help but sit by. Now the reports are coming up that the ship of the new institution's organization is so full of shelter that the employees with any expertise in the Agency are seriously thinking about their course, i.e. whether or not they'll follow to the new agency. The whole thing seems to be working with the back of our hands, so we in the United States can't support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u89	Mr. President. This issue had every opportunity to be the best of matters, even the best of matters, in our opinion at the council. We've seen a number of recommendations, indeed, that there could be more efficiency there by teaming the institutions, but the key to success with such a case is that there's a good thing to do. This has been a lack of political treatment because of the proposed issue of government. Because of the short - term use given to the welfare committee to work on the issue and the unacceptable time given to those in charge of the matter, we cannot bring back our comments, but we can sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u90	A respectable president. I'm glad that this case has come to a port, and I thank those who prepared it. The matter is very well prepared, although I can fully agree that it could have received a longer convocation treatment. However, what has caught my attention in this process is how clear a vision of those who have been involved in this matter on how to reduce the booth, facilitate and expand information, combine strength, and make the facilities everyone, both the social and the human resources, much more efficient. I realize, though, that the way it works depends on how the project works, so now it's much up to a new agency to be careful and to follow its policies and plans. I think this is a very good thing and that it's part of getting the booth off and making the system more efficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the welfare board for your work on the case. I'm so glad we're making the final payment. You see, there is a great advantage in our founding system, increasing the mastery of the mercenaries by expanding and reducing their number of government institutions. The objective of this is also to gain added force to the listed classes of practice and housing, which is a key key factor in achieving long-term stability, including: in a housing market. I have high hopes for this matter, and I am delighted that the council approves here on this bill and that we will see a new and powerful Housing and Mobilization Agency proceed to operate immediately on 1st of January.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u92	A respectable president. I'm so glad we're voting on this bill here, too. It is twofold, one way or another, that it contributes to strengthening the status of the country within the general housing system and increasing the possibility of building a general dwelling in more than just the capital area. That's fine. Then we have things directly related to the Life Treaty Treaty. Government contributions included: to achieve successful labour contracts across a general labour market. It involved a very extensive operation on housing, and it's a pleasure to see this bill here. Then, in the new year, there are more people who are going to follow this biographer contract. I can't put it, though. It's sad to see that the government's possession at Congress isn't ready to follow this biographer contract after which it strengthens me to believe that there is a powerful government in the country that follows the biographer contracts with a number of measures. [[Up front.]] This is one of those key issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u93	Mr. President. Here comes the highest. Social Ministers back up to set the hall on fire in a case that came very poorly prepared into the council, very ill prepared for a very smoothness of practice. Minister, and saying that the government opposition refuse to vote with the biographer agreement is beginning to bounce out of the way. Here, the government of the left green, forward, and independent class forgets the front line and leaves that group completely behind when it comes to housing. This is what we have noted in all three of our discussions on this matter, but unfortunately we did not have the opportunity to handle the matter in a decent way at a council because the matter was all too late from the highest level. Minister. [[V.E.G. The president reminds us that this section is entitled to account for its vote. (Report to: Ministers...) (Presently forward to:)]] )
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u94	The president directed those words, including the following: That's where he prays. Senators to remain calm.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u95	A respectable president. This situation took several changes in the management of the Economic and Business Committee and was not unnecessary in relation to the comments involved. The point was, like the two mentioned earlier, late in the afternoon and somewhat deformed, but a fine team effort was made on the committee to work on it. So I support the situation now. I'm not going to get this place any more out than I think it would. A social minister who apologizes for his conduct in the past. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u96	President. I'd like a true Christmas and holiday spirit to celebrate the great solidarity that has been achieved to improve the situation as needed during the council and then to accept it. We've all said here or maybe most of us, and we're very united that enormous measures are needed when it comes to the climate. It needs to be done both small and large. The big part is necessary, but it's small too, and here's a great step to increase the number of eco-friendly vehicles, and I'm glad we can do it in a great way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u97	A respectable president. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for a very fast march on this matter. Here we are extending an old agreement and taking no new commitments on ourselves, this is only an additional convention adopted in September by the church, an additional convention that makes it possible that from the years of the year on the members of the National Church will no longer be the employees of the State but the members of the Church itself, and then the church will be rather like a free religion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u98	Mr. President. In this regard much has been discussed since 1997. Pirata's meal at the General Assembly has been arduous to the church, and many words have fallen, which do not bring them honor. The Convention on Churches is not revised in this new agreement. The church meeting continues to be unfashionable. The Church is doing an important job across the country. Her activities are about 8,000 a year, and churches over 270, some of which are invaluable in the nation's religious and cultural history. This new arrangement takes a very big step toward church independence. This is a turning point in the relationship between Church and State. The church, on the other hand, has the protection of the government in its constitution but is far removed from being a government agency with this contract. Hopefully, the church will come to use the freedom that this new arrangement brings blessings to the nation. The middle party is celebrating this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u99	Mr. President. The church is a metropolitan organization and has done a good job. This issue is not about the work of the National Church, it is about the introduction of the Generals to an additional contract in addition to a so - called church agreement. The issue presented here rests on that basis. The General has had no access to the development of what is said to be just a technical change. It's not. It's a fundamental change. The church was mentioned here as active throughout the country. This she has likely done because she has been assured of her reward for a certain number of priests and bishops. Thus, this small technical implementation is decommissioned. [[The president calls.]] The church has no obligation in this contract to support the work, either the country or here, if that is the case. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u100	A respectable president. Hv. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Earlier, it was noted that Pirata's speech had been critical of the church. This is wrong. She has shown a harsh attitude toward the church meeting. The church meeting is not the church and the church meeting is not sacred - or the church, if it is done rather than any other human institution. I'm against this case because I'm against the church meeting. I'm opposed to special privileges of service to a group of religious or principles, whether it's national or anyone else. I'd just as much as I'd like to hear from the law, I'm sure, and I'm opposed to the fact that when the state deals with a so-called independent party, the state is caring for the interests of its medical resources rather than the interests of the Icelanders, the Icelandic people, and the taxpayers. I feel that the state should defend the taxpayers in such negotiations that the state obviously does not do what is clearly seen by the fact that this church agreement is in place over the head, let alone that it is implemented in this way. I disagree with the matter and hope that the State will ever consider the interests of taxpayers rather than the interests of the church in its treaties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u101	President. As I pointed out in a talk on this matter, the Jörmundur Ingi of armies sent a message when this church meeting was adopted in 1997, which states that the basis of this legislation is, by permission of the President, a agreed agreement between the Icelandic State and the National Church on translocation of the Church to the State, in which it is established. At the same time, it says, by permission of the President: It will be a little on the wrong foot. Do they represent each church for themselves or for the congregations or for the priestly call? (Subs. The Bishop's letter to Generals 15-1 1907). One thing will be pretty clear, it's not a church as an institution. When I spoke to a U.S. Senate lawyer about this case, it was found that there is no list of property brought to the state, but all property is recorded in Iceland and the story of who owned it. ▪ Basilcalally disclosed the church as the establishment of the land that the congregations had and were not authorized to do so. [[The president calls.]] It's a form of possession. We will continue to call for information about who really owned these assets. It was not as an institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u102	A respectable president. In the agreement under this bill, it is obvious that the church was only very well composed, but the state composed quite badly. There's nothing more complicated than that. In this also there is a change that the Church is not a state agency in Part A, but it has become an independent institution in this regard, and now the Church's employees no longer have government workers. If it isn't a fundamental change of church order, I don't know what, and if it is, there should be a national agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u103	A respectable president. At times, political justification is spoken of. It must be separated from traditional Orthodoxism because the ordinary dogma is a historical religious concept, i.e. when you're simply supposed to believe something, and if you don't believe it, you're somehow morally different, then you've done something wrong by not seeing a world like someone else. This vote here is not against the church itself, it is not against Christian religion, and it is not against Christians. That has nothing to do with it. This vote is opposed to the church meeting, which is a human act - and a fad, as the witnesses claim. I just wanted to be clear about this because it is repeated to Plerians in particular and also to others that we are somehow against the church or against Christianity or against Christians. That's wrong, a respectable president, we're just against a willing spirit like this and we're against unnatural predestinations for certain groups in excess of others. It would be as good a law as a contract with the state in this country. That's what it's all about. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u104	Mr. President. First of all, I want to come up here and thank you. The General and Education Committee for dealing with the conditions that have come up and explain the will of the legislatator in this case so that it is now absolutely clear that those people living abroad will have the same rights as others when it comes to changing their registration to sex and name. First and foremost, I thank you. A committee for responding snoutly and explaining the Lawgiver's will in this clear manner. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u105	Mr. President. I come up here to celebrate this matter. Of course, people are to be able to correct their gender or turn it into a national file despite a foreign legal registration. But I'd just like to remind you that the same government that now votes with this given proposal that people might change their names, she made the last of us a proposal for a change in human names, and that's too bad. I hope the government and the government begin to consider only whether there's not a tiny twin.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u106	Mr. President. This bill contains a budget that makes double energy when it comes to fulfilling the conditions of the law, as I have mentioned before. The requirement is temporary, inevitable, and unpredictable. Sadly, these terms have been interpreted quite freely by the European Commission and are essential to this development, but the bill also requires financial support by the central category. In view of the fact that the chairman of a legal committee has announced his use of the law's terms to be better informed and explained, including within the advisers, the middle class thinks it's right to support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u107	A respectable president. I want to take advantage of this opportunity, and I'm glad it's even here. You've just legalized that the funds due to the international cooperation of the police that went to the state funds go to the police in particular. State funds received a sum of 15% total benefit from a case of over 355 million. Mr. K., and here is legalized that these funds go to a special law enforcement fund and we will issue it to promote the police in the country, including the U.S.A. with equipment, for some part the police lack the necessary equipment to be as effective as possible to act against organized violations. International cooperation becomes more important and more important when the boundaries of fractures become less clear and blurred and organized crime, just as this is stopped by the arrival of more countries and by the cooperation that is important to us, as is the case with other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u108	A respectable president. This raise contains 10,000 bucks. tax and decrepitable for disability. E-mails have fallen on me. Why didn't I get this? people ask. Don't I get it? When do I get this? Will it be by Christmas? I hope so much and fervently that it will be that way. This shows how important this ten thousand call is for people out there. That's why I'm going to say yes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u109	Mr. President. We'd like to vote for a nice fundraiser bill, which improved even more in the treatment of a legal committee, and I'd like to be especially glad that we're paying 10,000 bucks here. The tax and the impairment of a person to those who received December remuneration from an insurance agency earlier this month. This is of utmost importance to that group. So it's with great joy that I vote with this financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u110	A respectable president. This is a vote to refer members of the Parliament to the government. Although that alone is not good news, I believe that there is a special opportunity for this release, an opportunity to promote a certain cause involving the matter, and it is among the movers of this new arrangement. The majority of the initiative's aims are directed to the Marine and Agriculture Ministers on the other hand and to the Environment and Resource Ministers, however, that the Ministry cooperates with regulations with clear guidelines for sustainable agriculture, more efficient management of funds and efficient management with the implementation of Member States' quality management in sheep generation. In addition, the more part would agree with the opinion that the two Ministers are involved in reporting on the progress of the project by September 1 next year. This is an important step that is being taken by reaching these two parties to the table, and I look forward to seeing the result of all of this together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u111	A respectable president. This case was first proposed in March 2015 by the then Council of Porta. Since then, most things have changed for the better as I see them, but I would like to take advantage of this opportunity now as it seems that this proposal will be approved by the council in view of the majority committee's opinion. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, especially why not. 8th yrs Smoke. n., Birgir Aarmann's Ármannsson for your cooperation. And I thank you very much. Minister of Justice for efforts to deal with the group we have witnessed in the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u112	A respectable president. We will now vote to promote the police's own independent surveillance. This is done with the police'best interests and the city's rights, but it's also done to meet our international commitments. We have an obligation to ensure an independent and independent investigation of police procedures that may limit, impair or violate the rights of the citizens. This is something we need to be okay but we've not been okay and it's really nice that we're taking a big step in that direction today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u113	I agree with my colleagues. This is an extremely important protection for citizens because the police can use power that is necessary for them to fulfill their role in protecting the security of the citizens. At the same time, this is so important to those who wish to work faithfully with the police. We've seen over the years that there's damaged apples here and there the police, like anywhere else, and it's damaging, so it's just that it's really important to those who really want to do police work with integrity and carefulness. This will protect them, and this will protect all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u114	A respectable president. Here, people have gathered for an important matter that I already have in mind, as is stated in any case. He who made this case, Helgi Hophns the Hrafn of Gunnarsson. We agree that we're supposed to provide a high-level patrol of the police, both for the rights of the city and for the police itself. This is now taken up by a three - man committee set up in 2016, which is a very important step taken by the then judicial minister, Ólöf Nordal. I have introduced that what I have already considered is independent research warrants, increased financial resources, whether or not to improve the independence of the Committee, whether to expand its field of work and what the Senate should be doing under such supervision. I will continue to do this, along with the proposals I receive from the council, and I will offer proposals for even more intensive surveillance, hoping for continued support, discussion, and solidarity on such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u115	V.E.G. President. I was alone last night, but I'm not alone right now. I'm going to explain why I'm not on this case. I'm generally against voting with meaningless and unnecessary suggestions, which may bring only expense. Police operations and procedures are very much under control today. There's internal Affairs, there's a minister, a state attorney and a state attorney, and we have nothing to do with this, no more than yesterday when people approved here, except for me studying the depression of the elderly who's been tested in necrosis, not just in this country, but around the world. There's a database on this and people know exactly how it is and what it needs to be done, but we're gonna go down with a nine-man commission to investigate it. [[The president calls.]] I don't feel like being a part of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-47.u116	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the council for agreeing to this proposal. I don't agree with what happened here earlier that maybe we're going to understand. To keep up with police surveillance is not unnecessary. The answer is very important, and it is stated in the evidence of this matter. That is shown in the case of the highest. Minister of Justice, more than that. This is stated in the report on police surveillance, so it's only available. It is true, though, that the group of litigators has to continue, and I look forward to seeing things from the highest point of view. Minister of Justice where this will be further developed. Then we can what? 5th a.m. Reykv.. I'm sure that's why I'm afraid I'm sure I'll be able to deal with some application. I just want to thank you again for the whole case. The General and Education Committee and would like to agree that even when people disagree on committees, such a previous part of the treatment, there is more than you think there is a possibility of finally getting together.
