ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u1	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The prayer of Þórarinsson's Birgir for his meditation. He asked me what I thought about new ideas or ideas about deep fevers and likely in order to harness some energy there, probably heat or heat. I have to admit it and admit that I have no knowledge of the deepwaters, just not a few, but I have some ideas about what goes on below the earth, i.e. It becomes ever warmer as the earth's crust descends, and I realize that there is the next limited heat that mankind might face in the future for energy and harness, and I can only see that it is the best. I don't realize if there are any special consequences of looking for that kind of energy, I don't know what it might be. But there may be something. If we can develop technology to the point where it's possible, I think there are other sources in the earth's crust, depending on the temperature and energy that can be converted into electricity and other objects. So the future seems bright as technology moves. But I'd also like to point out other potential sources of energy, such as. The tide power and wind, and I've studied it a little more than deep water.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The reason for this is exactly what I'm saying - and I'll take a closer look at this article here during the discussion - is that the concern in Iceland is that this may increase the electricity prices to consumers, i.e. This export of energy under discussion. It's been said of these great opportunities Iceland has, that these deep habits should start next year, 2020. But it is also noted that these drills will need top security, since Iceland is a volcano island and people don't want to start some type of earthquake by drilling so deep in the earth's crust. But this article was very interesting, and I thought it was proper to mention it because of the circumstances. A senator had a very good historical overview of our energy supply. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these notes I would like to call on for deep-tempered feelings. It would be interesting to learn more about it and see what that could mean. He mentioned that if I understood him correctly, there might be some danger in the matter of firework, and that may well be. I don't remember hearing, though, that human works could lead to a match, but I'm not quite sure, but it would be nice if someone could point it out. I think this may be a minor risk. He also mentioned that the export of energy from here could increase prices to consumers within the country and the risks involved. Yes, indeed, I agree that this could happen and that it has happened, leaving me somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his speech This is an interesting context and an interesting story to hear about the development of activations in the whole country. In this context, I would like to hear the senator's viewpoint on the great application that is now a time on leave to build up so - called windmill gardens, especially on the western side of the country, and a great number of microdoers, which are defined as less than 10 MW. I have to admit, I don't have a lot of people clear, but he's quite a few of them. I ask if the senator tried to put this into context, it was up to the ideas of what is now in the windmills, and small activations, compared with the list he went over here, how much force is possible in the pipes from these new missions in the windmills, if necessary, and then the minor activations. Is this quantity that corresponds to the potential for much of all the building that took place in the main part of the last century? Based on the addition that has taken place since the turn of the century, I find that by means of the new projects in these two sectors, or in these two sectors, we are adding considerably to our energy efficiency, and I reiterate that I am not opposed to electricity production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólason Bergþór of Ora for meditation and for the question. This is clear from the discussion here and the list of why. A senator in Iceland is a wealthy country of energy; it seems to be everywhere. He mentioned the wind and windmill gardens. If we take the 690 MW River Valley activation, 350 windmills will need the size we can see on the Burflash here from the east - there are two windmills - to achieve the same power, Mr. President. I think it'd be quite a sight for you to see. These are both high and there must be a space between them, so it would take over a large area if you were to succeed with the River Valley activation out of a windmill. Now the technology goes forward, and the windmills grow, and it goes up. It may be possible to get this force out of fewer windmills and higher. It is clear that there will always be a great deal of eye pollution, so now that these windmills are not here for any advice and application of them has not yet begun. Therefore, we need to put a problem to work and put it here at the General Assembly, at the legislature meeting, in the legal setting before this happens rather than afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the answer. I understood that right from what I heard. A senator would be at the end of his counterpartment to point out what some have noted in articles, and no doubt some of the above talks in this discussion, that energy policy is missing here among us, which, of course, should be the basis for how all things, including, are needed. the ones discussed here are kept? It would be interesting to hear a point of view. A senator in these matters, whether such a foundation should be the basis for decision making, a base position that we have not worked in the administration system or in the politics. I would like to hear the senator's position on whether I correctly understood that it was really what he was calling for and pointing out that he was in desperate need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. The question is whether energy policy is missing in this regard - I'd rather call it complacency. Pressing has not been detected in the configuration of cigar paints. The interest is growing, especially the final loss, so it's becoming reality. I've had a conversation with the highest. A minister on these items and called for the setting of total laws on the subject. I haven't seen them. I hope they're coming so that the legal environment can be developed before this becomes reality, but not afterwards. The same is true of other things, such as oceanographers. The same is true of the activation of waves, for as it is today, people, if they owned the land and the ground, could just set this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to get over this. I'm going to use the word " complacency." I heard that word in a speech a few weeks ago. I don't think I've used that word in my speeches, but I think it's safe to say or ask if there's a certain insubordination here in the management section about what should be introduced into energy panels or EU rules and, of course, I'm referring to the fourth energy package. No member of the council has been in a pit for some time and has answered any of the points we have considered here, such as. the questions about the fourth energy package I've had here. Have members of the Management Board been given any presentation of what is included in the fourth energy package? Have they been informed whether there is a continuation of the development of this ACER facility or similar strains? Is there any development regarding the power or aims that this ACER facility will follow? Need to have a special alert on administrative matters regarding the fourth energy package, etc.? The reason I think this is important is because we can see for example. From Norway, some people are excited for, at least, that Iceland completes this input on the third energy package in order to start with the fourth one in a presentation or has at least been introduced to the government there. Now we know that the fourth energy package was launched in 2016. He's had quite a bit of work done. These are eight types and have been completed in the European Union with at least Four of those eight. The others will probably be over soon. Is it not reason to stop and learn what this package means before it goes forward and the third package is introduced, and I'm going to say right now because the warning given is to home bridges, isn't to the European Union or to these embassies because we're about to be fully introduced? Is it really so that members of the administrative body intend to close their eyes and ears to the other side of the corner wait for a continuation in the introductions, and they are available in all the basics? The fourth pack of energy is available in all the basics. Does it make no difference to these senators what may be included in that package? Does it make no difference whether it's the continuation of Iceland's power supply? Does it not matter that the package may provide even more serious questions about the constitution, a power campaign? Is it really so that no superintendent is interested in getting this fourth package of energy? I know that if there is some expansive authority, there are individuals who view it very seriously. Is it not true that they now sit down with their people to say, " Is it not true that we will consider the matter a little further? ' It's not like it's some secret with this fourth energy package, not at all. The State Department's comments to my questions show that some kind of presentation for stakeholders has been launched, at least a special service group has been formed for interestkeeping and consultation on the induction of the fourth energy package. Is it not normal and in itself responsible for the members of the Commission to sit down and say: Let's get the overall picture before we accept this third pack of energy, so that the overall picture is the development of this common energy market, the rules that we should adopt, and the trends we will then be forced to participate in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and I have no comment that he continues to intervene in this matter only, as he put it. I don't think we're doing anything here, that's just trying to analyze the situation, try to figure out a solution, or a way to make it right with Congress and nation. Hv. A senator raised the question, "Is it really so that the government was going to close their eyes and ears to what's in the water, what's beyond the corner, what's going to happen after a pack of three energy? ' There is a difference in what is involved in this room, and we have not had any conversation with the directors about what is involved in the fourth, since they have run away from this discussion, and no matter what the fifth person is about to be built. We must be very serious about whether or not there is a room on hand and whether a pack of energy includes some of the steps in its induction that prevents us from rejecting something that would later come in a fourth pack of energy, i.e. that it is impossible to turn away later. I would like to bring it forward as a possible means of reconciliation, and I'd like to reflect on it. The senator will see if there are three possible leads out of this case we are sitting on today, i.e. Delay in this induction, complete rejection to introduce the third energy package or take the case and refer to the treatment of reconciliation with the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]] There is a degree of variation here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u10	V.E.G. President. There may be two main questions the senator raised, first of all, whether we are ensuing something that makes it reversible, i.e. It will be difficult to stop later. I think that it is, yes, I think that if we do become this induction it will be even more difficult for us to stop off an energy pack of four or whatever happens in the future because we are continuing to do the right thing and do it fully according to our commitments without any relevant paroles. Yes, it will be harder to say, "Hey, we can't go on any further. " It's in my opinion now that such a thing has to happen. For some form of compromise, of course, the only right thing to do in the process and, according to the contract, to simply say, which would be honest, is that there is too much conflict in this case in Iceland, and therefore other means and solutions must be sought and referred back to the joint EEA committee. It is the legal way and there is no emergency. There's nothing written in that only uses once every 25 years, it's written in the contract. As a precaution, I think it would be better to postpone the case and get a better view of what should come. As a result, it may either make it easier to accept the whole lump or to open our eyes to further release, receive a clear delay, or receive an extension from the overall ankles, i.e. Three and four. If we completely refuse to do this, I think that's just what happens to the joint EEA committee, I think that's what happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Perhaps the reason I made this statement is that we've been looking for some kind of contact with the followers of this energy package, and we've tried to reach them in a way that gives us opinions that are of the nature that we cannot help but discuss them in one way or another. As I said in my previous answer, there was a difference in nature between the types, the prowess, the rejections, or the indicators. If we were to postpone taking the discussion and finish it, it would be in our dealings here. Total rejection may be a bit stiff, since we completely reject the one-sided third energy package completely and it would, of course, end up with the joint EEA committee, which would be a real offer, i.e. You'd be offering to dance. Maybe that's what I just cut down to see if the executives could be invited to talk to us about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u12	V.E.G. President. I don't think rejection is a good way. I think the right way is to bring it back to the EEA Committee. This is because we are in this relationship, i.e. We're in the EEA Convention and inside it are written specific procedures, laws and regulations on how to handle matters. I don't think it would be right for us to break that deal by using some form of advice that is not allowed or allowed by the contract. That's why I think the only proper way is to refer this to the joint EEA committee. True, we may try to postpone the case, and then we will be ashamed not to have done this, etc. but we haven't turned it down yet. But I'm worried, I don't know how to say this, to live again in a time when the judges had decided that things were all right, and they went there. It reminds me of Icesave.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I came across, in the Morning Press, an article by Bordi Haraldsdóttir, a member of the Independence Party, under the heading: a procedure on the third energy package. If I grab a little bit of this article, with the permission of the President, talking about the induction of the third energy package, says: Instead, his rules are for the better of Icelanders because of increased consumer protection and rules that promote an increase in competition and equality between parties, which should generally promote a lower price. This is exactly what the Generals have been discussing, this consumer protection, and the benefits that come to us. I now have a table that provides an overview of the increase in electricity prices from January 2013 to January 2017. This table lists one of six power companies or electrician halls, and a mean increase in these enterprises during this period is 19.6%. At the same time, the index has increased by 9%, so we'll find that this is where it goes. A senator only with false records. Then, members of the Central Party, we have been accused of misinformation. I'd like a guess. There's a senator on a presentation like we're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u14	V.E.G. President. Now I have to admit that I have not read this article and am beginning to agree that I have nothing to do with the descriptions that have been given in the public talk about its contents. There are seem to be many indications that this article is written primarily to appease the writer of it, not to argue with us the others who have doubts that this package is properly introduced as it appears today. Hv. paritaprevir However, Birgir's Þórarinsson points out correctly to the price of electricity development and has the former senator's testimony to his own experience when a pack of energy was introduced here in the country, how it affected the account of his home in the south by sea, in the Volgit of Water placebo Beach, how the home's electricity cost went up significantly after that induction. The Senator is not the only one who has mentioned this to us other members of the United States, that is what more people in the country have done. Whether it's the energy price itself or the transport that has increased, the total balance has increased, there's no question about it. Of course, those who say otherwise are not - well, let's just say it, so it's time to skim it all over the truth. I think it's important that we try to get some rest. paritaprevir To ask her about this article, the University of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir in the conference hall and in the platform. Hv. A senator who writes such an article must want to come here and prove his point further. Maybe then. you can ask the senator if she has studied from a pack of three energy, if the article she will write from a pack of four will be exactly the same, that it is so wonderful and wonderful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who agrees with him that it is necessary to do so. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, who wrote the above article, answers the questions that we have, and in some way try to correct this, if at all possible. I can't see that these things can be corrected, so it's in black and white that the increases in electricity are far more than an increase in the amount of consumption, for example. The article will explain why. A senator that should contribute to a lower price, that this is a benefit to consumers, and that it is a consumer protection. I remind you that when I discussed it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson mentioned, that I knew firsthand that electrical prices at my home were greatly increased by the introduction of a pack of energy, one and two because I fueled it, called a sledge. paritaprevir How true of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir from the hall that he was wrong. [[The president calls.]] I think it's right. A senator will answer for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u16	President. I think it's important that the senator come down here and explain this article she wrote. It would be nice too, if that were so. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms could cross and show her how they changed, if she doesn't believe it. Thus, more people experienced the same change as why. paritaprevir Þórarinsson. So I think it's normal to call out for what's happened. paritaprevir Brísdóttir Haraldsdóttir would come in for us and explain this to us. It is very easy to throw out some statements in a newspaper article and then do not have to live up to it in the halls of Generalis. That's what we call it. I'm also very interested in talking to that senator and others about what is waiting for us in a pack of four energy, but there is still plenty of time to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u17	Mr. President. Hv. A senator wondered about the energy policy and the order of parts, whether it would be reasonable to shape energy policy before entering the third energy package - you would think that would be the right order for the parts. But could it not be that men either don't need energy policy because they're just going to be sent outside or afraid to accept energy policy because it will inevitably need to take into account society's interests and thus be in a skirmish with the third energy package? Could it not be that this is the reason why things are put in the wrong order? It illustrates how beneficial it has been to continue in the challenge of this matter. paritaprevir Sæmundsson earlier this evening noted that he believed that the Norwegian Government Court would determine whether the third energy package will last. Now I understand, a respectable president, and I assume that the highest. The president will take this into account, and that we will have the opportunity to learn the whole matter, that the Norwegian Court should handle the case on September 23, over. Then you wonder if it was the reason why it was the highest. The minister of the foreign state had proclaimed, that, I understand, that the case might wait for the fall, he intended to look at what might come out of it, but so decided not to be wrong, but to try to drive it through before the Norwegian court decides. Isn't this another example of doing things backwards?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u18	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it's a little special in all of this. I think it would be more correct to apply what is at its height. The minister of state recently said that it was right for this case to wait for the fall. It is obvious that if a judicial court in Norway rejects this induction or says that the Constitution was opposed to the Norwegian constitution, it would have to affect all the introductions to this whole package and including us. It is natural to wait for it. Regarding energy policy, it is the question of the hen or the egg. Which comes before or after the energy policy? Will it take into account the domestic needs or the commitments we have made? I fear a little bit that the energy policy that will see the day will be very colored because we handle a certain responsibility for this common energy market in Europe. Of course I have nothing to do with this, but I fear it will be, i.e. that it will affect America's energy policy. Then, of course, it is our responsibility to respond. It is obvious that Iceland's energy policy as a member of the European Economic Area Convention, part of the common energy market, cannot be anywhere on the horizon or at odds with its targets. I don't quite understand how it should work out if it was. How can Iceland's energy policy, e.g. Based on the fact that the United States alone is going to employ 80% of its energy markets, its prices, its distribution, and all of this if it went against Europe's objectives?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u19	President. I can't draw any other conclusions from the answer. A senator, whose situation is that the government in this country did not trust to provide its own energy policy until they are in a position to accept such a policy from outside the country. However, in the case of the Norwegian Court, it is surprising that humans are not to be, as it were. A senator, in fact, mentioned, would like to wait by means of induction and see what comes out of it. It is simply, as I mentioned earlier, the wrong order of things, but politically, it is also very peculiar, especially in the light of the great doubt that the supporters of all the governments have on this matter. You would have thought that the government groups would put their hopes in the Norwegian Court's decision, the hope that he would defend our rights as soon as he defends Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u20	President. I suspect the reason for this haste, i.e. that this issue is being speeded up now, simply as Norway's pressure. I am well aware that while I was in the minister's office, there was considerable pressure from certain stewards or officials of Norway, especially the successful minister of this country, who was under intense pressure to accomplish all of this. I have to admit that I don't remember the secretary of state discussing this. On the other hand, if we decide to postpone this, we may also wonder what it means to Norway. I don't think it in itself has any major significance to them, except that this will be delayed. The pressure from our fine cousins in Norway has been great for a long time, but it seems that it is giving in to him now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u21	Mr. President. I just want to continue my coverage of the Southnes heat business at the time. The source of this source is the fact that the European Union's energy directives, one and two, were introduced here. It paid for the exchange of the company, and it was sold despite the wonderful promises of politicians, a local representative of the city of Rhinestown. The independent group at that time sold their business to foreign private people, a company built up in Southnes for years. In short, the company is divided into HS Power and HS hosts in 2008, shortly after approval of this energy package, i.e. Energy pack one and a pack of two. The Southnesia was, as mentioned earlier, owned by a South American community member and owned a city of Smokenes about 43% at the club, while HS Orcs ended up in the hands of a Swedish drawer company and today, HD Energy is assessed at 72 billion dollars. The company was sold in its own time for just over 10 billion dollars. So, as mentioned earlier, there were 43% and then other rural areas in the South were involved in the company. The local city of Smokejanes is about 18,000, so each town dweller has, in effect, been owned for about 18,000. Two million. K. in HD Energy if the community hadn't gone on this trip so that a family of four people would have had about 8 million in this company. It is good to put this in this context to show the amount of money involved. This has, in the most large part, disappeared in the pockets of foreign owners, this drawer company, which was then found to be from Canada but was not allowed under European rights to buy in this company, which is why it was founded within the European economy as a sort of drawer company with a residence in Sweden. This was a violation of law and order, but they went out there at about a profit. 20 billion bucks. Now Southnes don't own any energy company, and the profits of this company range from 21⁄23 billion a year, and they don't use the local communities in this area. Today, the company belongs to a pension fund that owns 46% and then to a foreign partner of about 54% shares. What does this tell us? This matter is certainly important in this discussion because it tells us, Mr. President, and it is a good example of what can happen when governments do things without fully examining the possibilities, without making accurate observations on the effects of the power package being produced by society as a whole. Energy pack three is the exact continuation of this road into uncertainty. We do not know how these issues will develop, and this can have a very negative impact on the economic survival of the nation in the near future. When it comes to a sea cable, we are in this common market. It is clear to me that the soil is being prepared for it. I don't think anyone can deny it. There's a reason why companies like Landic activation and others are all for the possession of a cable. The director of the company has said that he is closer in time than we think, and I completely agree with the director on that subject. This needs to be viewed in view of the fact that this is just one step forward into this common market. [[The president calls.]] When the cable comes, there's no turning back, we're part of it, and we can't change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u22	President. There's one thing I'd like to ask you. A member of the Parliament because I know that he has a vision of how treaties work, how people maintain agreements and such: the senator knows or believes that the agreement, as in the European Economic Area Convention, would not respect the law of the agreement, i.e. His rules? 102st. has, of course, a role, and I ask if you have it in the contract without assuming it's new. Does the senator know that somewhere in the contract, this article is interpreted as an emergency storm, an agent, an emergency hatch, or what people call it? Then I'd like to think about it and ask why. A senator whether he is familiar with some lawyer, a scholar who has discussed the matter, declared that if Icelanders don't make those rules directly, i.e. If there is any instigation error in these things, be assured that there will be no judicial action against the people of Iceland. Of course, no lawyer has told me that the method used here prevents it. However, it has been suggested that this might occur, i.e. that someone would seek justice if we did not do it right. The question, though, was mainly about the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. There's a very legitimate concern that he would present regarding the contract, possible legal cases, etc. As for the first item, an emergency of 102. gr. In the EEA Treaty, this legal way is to proceed when there are disagreements between parties and one party is not satisfied, when it is possible. If you're here talking about some kind of emergency, that it's only used in an emergency, you'd think it'd be mentioned in contracts. I think it's quite certain that if there's a set of contracts to be used in a special emergency situation, it needs to be handled specifically, and then we need to find out what that is, what the emergency is. There's nothing to do with that in these contracts, so I think it's totally safe to dismiss it. I'm a little surprised that this spokesman given to the Secretary of State and the Ministry, Baudenbacher, a former judge of the EFTA Court and the current expert and contractor in this field, had mentioned this. That's what surprised me, and I know a lot more people. He mentions a specific exercise of emergency, but there is no one in this contract that tells us that there is a measure of anxiety and even misinformation that humans cannot confirm. You can't make such a point unless you're 100% clear about it, and that's not clear because it's not part of the deal. In this regard, the expression is silent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u24	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Is it possible to argue that the European Union would think of using a contract, in this case Iceland, some kind of threat, force or punishment for using the Article of this agreement, which is an international agreement to make it between several parties? Is it not likely that this will reduce the confidence in the European Union's negotiations in general when it is clearly written what process will take if a particular situation arises? I don't remember, in all my dealings with this wonderful European Union, that no single word ever came up about any threat, no matter what we were discussing at that time with the good people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u25	Mr. President. I think you're absolutely right. If the European Union could use some form of pressure, etc. In this, it would dishonor their credibility. In this negotiation, trust between parties is very important and is actually the key to holding such agreements and not threatening to resign, that they can be in danger if they take advantage of a legal route in the contract. It's just absurd to think that such things can happen. Then there would be a law in this contract that said it, a document to review, and even a resignation if it went contrary to what the contract says. [[The president calls.]] That's not why I wear it, so I'll agree with it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u26	Mr. President. At one time, I watched as others did when HD Orcs was sold to foreigners, and I was very sorry. In fact, I know that the Icelandic pension funds were not just offered, they were asked to invest where they didn't until some months later and then bought a share in HD Power by the Canadian owners a higher price than they had before. In fact, it seems that very recently the Icelandic pension fund is 57% in this enterprise, so the holding is now in itself more into Icelandic hands, although its partner funds are a British hedge fund, which is possibly better off than the original fund that wanted to buy more parts of the company and have a place in the Gulf of Persia somewhere. It doesn't matter. But what I wanted to ask you is why. In other words, a senator is the other end of an HS Energy company, i.e. HS host. Now it's flown for that currently it is also selling it as well. I wanted to ask you what. A senator if he has any information as to whether this is the right information I have, i.e. that the HS hosts are now for sale, and possibly who are the most likely buyers of the HS hosts or the entire company once owned by rural areas in the South. Well, I had rather hoped that where, for example, I would not. Smokeytown seemed to be in a financial situation, so instead of selling property south of here, it would be necessary to sell property. But I would like to pray. A senator to shed light on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees with him that I am glad that the Icelandic pensions are there with more of the company. I am happy but remind that these foreign people have made a tremendous profit in this investment that has since left the country. Hv. A senator asks about HS hosting, so it's in the law of a service agency that they must be at least 51% owned by public agencies. At a time when HS hosts were sold, an attempt was made to compromise in the way of which Réjanestown sells its share in HS hosts, and it is a private partner whose smaller parts of this are, while efforts were made on the other side to make the so-called shareholder agreement that the decision will eventually be owned by privates. It was a very special act in his day, and people had serious doubts about him, but it may well be, and they may be right beside him. Senator, I don't know exactly that the object of the private body within the company is running the purchases and sales and the right to sell it. I don't know. I don't know why. Senator. The point is, when the company was sold, it was about 400 million. K. Last year, money was sold for 2 billion dollars. It took this private five years to get the price back, and you ask: "Why on earth was this company being sold? They had an HS host, but they sold this legal item that resulted in so much money for the rural community. You do not understand such financial attractions and wonder if any other interests are behind which have not been committed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u28	Mr. President. I've seen a figure that said that the Canadians who had this dominant share in HS Ensia have tenfold increased their ownership over the ten years they owned the company. This may agree with the fact that I didn't read long ago that the news editor Bloomberg published that the best investment in the Western Hemisphere was in Icelandic energy production. It may not be strange that we hear that foreign people want to build windmills and/or to get their way in energy companies in Iceland. So I ask why. A senator whether it is right for us to step down to the ground carefully because the energy package we have in our hands right now pays in itself a way that allows foreign people to land and buy parts in the energy companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u29	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator's concern is that we come to the earth with caution. It is quite clear that many participants, investors and large enterprises from the energy sector are very excited about this energy package because they are opening the way into a very large market area for electricity, 500 million people market. We are here at 350,000, so, of course, these parties are looking for ways to benefit from energy sales. Hv. A senator named windmill gardens, etc. who have investors in the dough to build. It is not the reason to sell electricity here within the country. I think that's mainly the idea of selling it to the highest bidders. [[The president calls.]] It is pure energy, valuable energy, and they will sell it into this market area once the cable has arrived.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's why. There's a senator inside that when the cable comes back, there's no turning back. I think that was the wording. A senator used. I understand the claim that it is stated on the grounds that if such a cord is laid, and I think everyone would agree that none if it is, it will come in the future, it will be done on the grounds of the European Union and the EEA but not on the terms of the Icelanders, i.e. There will be no turning back because it would be done on that basis. I would like to wonder if in the future there could also be a possibility that a cord would be placed outside this relationship, such as. Britain, if it were to happen that Britain would eventually pass out of the European Union, Bfenit, making a two - sided agreement between Iceland and Britain. Then a cable would be like one or at least the energy transport of him on the custody of the Icelanders and on the grounds of the Icelanders. Is it something that would look different than if such a cord were laid on the basis of a secular institution and power that we do not have at hand?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and agrees with that. A senator for a sea cable to come. Parts who know much better about these things, such as the president of the Continent, have said that they have said so and that they are closer to us in time than we think they are. But if there are two benefits for the sea cable, whether it will be made by the arrival of ACER in the European Union or without the arrival of the European Union, and only in two-way agreement with the British, those who are well aware of these materials have said that it is a better option to make a two-way agreement with the British because we have much more to say about this. In that case, we have not given up custody of these matters, as is the introduction of the energy package once a cable has arrived. However, we do not know how this agreement will develop between Britain and the European Union. I understand that now there is a majority of the British, the common people, that they want to remain in the European Union. Britain's government has completely screwed up this process and has become a laughingstock because of its mismanagement since its approval in a national fee. The point is that people don't know what this relationship will be like, so some sort of agreement could be made that if the British went out, they would overlook such an important string that would then serve the European Union and that would become custody of the European Union. We do not know this, so there are many uncertainties in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u32	V.E.G. President. I'm going to take this discussion a little further about Bgreit and the scandal marks that have been listed here in this hall, all of which Bgreitt Road has been. It was mentioned in context to that if we were to refer to the terms of the common EEA committee that this was the same thing, i.e. Britain's exits from the European Union and, on the other hand, that we would return this administrative notice to the joint EEA committee. I would like to have the senator's thoughts on whether he considers this to be something or in every respect comparable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer and speculation in these matters. In my mind, and I've said it before, there's nothing to fear of referring this matter to the joint EEA committee. I think people can see that the contract that has been in force for 25 years has been successful, that governments have done a lot of good with this contract. I think it's safe to say. If one member is going to take advantage of this formal right he has at the contract, it's causing some kind of confusion on the other person, I think that's just what we call panic propaganda and nothing else. With regard to Britain, Baltrexit, and the march it's all very different, but it may show that getting out of the European Union is far more difficult than any human suspect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u34	Mr. President. First, I'd like to ask Mr. President if we're not quite prepared to have room on tonight's telethon file, that there's plenty of room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u35	President admits, there's plenty of room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u36	I'm glad that this is where we stepped on the deck today. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir told the group that stands and discussed a pack of energy, three have taken the Assembly Hall. In case of a moment. A senator burns to come here and tell his opinion on the energy package, and/or to the dreadful men and women standing here and discussing this big thing as a matter of course. A senator described it this way: empty, repeated, and generous self - pity. In case of a moment. A senator has listened so carefully to what has been done here, and if her attention has been as strong as what has been presented here in the Senate Hall as the sources she obtained as she wrote an article published in the Morning newspaper today, I will begin to understand why the article is just the way it is. But on my own, I did not intend to talk about any detail in this speech. Rather, I intended to discuss the fact that this has been claimed, of more than that fine rush. A member of the council, a smaller section, a great smaller portion, is here all alone, in control, and is monopolising and abusing the council. This brings to mind that just a few days ago, on May 16, a survey from MMR appeared in the farm newspaper, which was made in the days between April 30 and May 3. It clearly identified opposition to this government plan, i.e. bringing in the EU's third energy package on the power room in energy. There were 50% of respondents very or rather opposed, 30% were rather or very met, and 19% did not take sides. However, only those who take sides will be involved in the final outcome. Of the 81% in the MMR survey, 62% were opposed and 27% were met. It is noteworthy that among the respondents, 41% are hard in opposition, while only 16% hard supporters of a three - pack energy package. Now you begin to understand all the greetings and all the encouragement the group here has received during the past few days and weeks in their fight against this same energy package. This is far more understandable because the grass roots, i.e. The general party society in all three administration categories is more than that of this process. It makes it even more strange, at least To me, a man asks himself, " Why do these three groups go so thoroughly against their grass root and common companions? ' Aren't these men going to go on in politics? Are these groups to be put down? Not that I cry, but I just ask myself. What kind of bitch is holding this case so forth in this haste, in this pocket, and it's been pointed out tonight in very good speeches how this rush, this haste, will have. There have been examples from Norway and elsewhere where people have been in trouble, and we are sailing in exactly the same trouble, if not worse. This is what I'd like to promote, Mr. President, both that this is in baloney opposition to the nation and that the people here accuse the group of the councilmen having room on the rosary if they want, dare, and can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u37	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is surprising that members of the board, such as the generals, are. paritaprevir Brutísdótttir Haraldsdóttir, let her say that those who express doubts about the third energy package are some small smaller things in view of the statistical evidence. A senator points out. It's even more strange when others are snarling. Councilmen hold to the claim that skeptics of this scheme are a base for some form of extremeism. But I'm gonna ask what. A senator about something else because he introduced a point, which he actually introduced earlier tonight, which is the development of a situation in Norway. To me, it was new information already. A senator informed us that this was the time for the Norwegian Court to handle the situation. It may tell you a story about the information being given to the administrative body and its accessory in this matter that such a fundamental point is first to be discussed at night after a considerable discussion. At the same time, it is a reminder of the importance of this discussion. But I understand that this court will handle the case on September 23, U.S.A. And then I ask why. A member of Parliament who informed the above: What could cause the Icelandic government not to await the decision of the Norwegian Court on this matter but to drive it through the council, preferably at night, long before the Norwegian authorities decide whether it will be over Norway's constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u38	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his answer. I have just wondered about the fact that this fall is the case with the government's decision, and the group who has opposed these efforts at home has said that it might be wise to wait until the fall. I've wondered what position the Iceland Court will be in if, in Norway, the European Court decides that a pack of energy in Norway does not last a Norwegian constitution. If we had introduced this energy package that the Norwegians were all out of a game and would be in the same position as we are now - then where are we, Mr. President? This point of its own concerns me a little bit, and it's just one more piece. As we've been here for the last pop, and I've said it a few times, I think this discussion, and I think we're more about it, being deepening. There's a new puzzle in this case that, anyway, the court of the court says, makes things worse, even more undesirable, making it even more incomprehensible to want to take the case through the council, at night, as presented here, in this pocket, knowingly, e.g. This. I have no doubt that the highest. Foreign minister and his staff and fellow workers are aware of this by means of the Norwegian administrative court. Yet men here are driving with this package and going to take it through the council. I'm incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u39	Mr. President. Indeed, there is much incomprehensible in this matter. It is incomprehensible how the Icelandic government has repeatedly expressed its will to play away Iceland's contract position in this important interest of the nation. But in terms of a question why. The senator's position in which we will be if the Norwegian Court finds that the case does not meet Norway's constitution, then it must be a disgrace to the Icelandic government if they have forced the case through here without proper consideration of the official effects on the land. You can't help but wonder if the Icelandic government has become some sort of player in this whole case, taking the time to force the case through, probably in their confidence, and the hope that the Norwegian Court will not conclude that the case is going too far, overstepping the Constitution rights of these EFTA countries. We have seen a number of things in this matter that include balanced priorities, but it is strange that the Icelandic government is going to put us in that position or to hope that the results of the Norwegian Court will be on the European Union rather than Iceland and Norway, which have very similar constitutions. It's incomprehensible. A senator says that it is not good for us to have a government that will thus approach matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u40	Mr. President. That's right, it's also that this government, in this incomprehensible way, this irresponsible way, runs through a case that is truly, according to this fine survey I quoted earlier, in the scapegoats of the majority of the people. In other words, the government is not supposed to listen to the majority of the people in this case, and the government is going to do so - now I assume that the government and its co-fish read the National newspaper and have seen this survey and therefore know how these cases are being made in Iceland. Even more incomprehensible is this matter, and worse because governments want and think, apparently, they run this case through the council at night, irresponsible, unconcerned, with uncertainty in Norway on comparable issues, in opposition to the Icelandic nation, the greater part of it. You ask yourself, " Why is this the only thing that has ever occurred since governments have handled matters here at the General Assembly, which are certainly in opposition to national willingness, "i.e. The majority of the nation, and you ask, Is there no earth relationship with this government? Is she just here in something? She's not listening to anybody? Isn't she listening to the voices of the people? Isn't she listening to the people outside these walls? Is this government really a great deal of communication with the nation? Doesn't she listen?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. What a joy it was to observe the answers! paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougson, too. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson delivered the speech of the Bryndís of Brysíshar Haraldsdóttir in this chair that referred to the arrest of the Assembly Hall and the empty self - charge. That's where I stopped listening, but there was probably more to be some political cones. For that, I don't think that's worth answering. The fact is, however, that yesterday, because of the morning, we are past midnight, members of the council from three different categories were discussing this matter in the Assembly Hall, now the whole affair and the armed forces. From this platform, it has been offered repeatedly that if other members of the Parliament want to present themselves and discuss this and accept the discussion we have called after, members of the Central Party are first to move down on the rosary and allow others to participate in this discussion. But I would like to ask myself. A senator made a point of the talk, the note that identifies the practice in such a huge matter: What can be the possible reason why the matter is being handled with urgency instead of trying to take it gently to the ground and do so with reason?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u42	Mr. President. That's exactly why I asked the highest. The president would probably not be there for others because of the words about the campaign of the council hall on the part of these hospitable self-helpers here. I have kept asking myself the question and the questions why there is such a life. I've said that before, and I've been here in these discussions for the past week and last week, and when we discussed this case there, and we've always been on the scene every time we take this matter for the better. This first shows the need for this discussion because I constantly feel that new information is further developed that further prepares the need to consider the matter, to consider, to consider, that, like a man, he should be careful. A senator rightly said that men are looking ahead of their feet. And now, in view of what was done here tonight, and surely there were many witnesses in the past with the Norwegian Court, I ask again: How does the Icelandic government look and interest if representatives of the government and the whole country stand out somewhere in the wilderness if a administrative court in Norway says this is against a Norwegian constitution? I'm just saying again, why are people willing to take that risk when we're talking about a few months? We're not in any rush to know that unless there's any interests behind us that we're covered up, we might still be able to find out that these packages are approved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That you know, exactly. Why are we kept in darkness? Why is there no one taking the discussion with us? But why the rush? was my question. A senator and I would like to bring up a theory: Now the national interest forecast being published at this time is down, and the tourist industry, which has been ready for the bus, is soon to be in trouble at this time, and both are in part the responsibility of the present government. Could it be that governments are now seeing an opportunity to create a new sputnik? Me and my Icelanders have managed to make something new that will be so brand-new, for example. In the 1960's, fur farms or soil work. Then we became financial empires, and we recently became a tourist attraction. Why don't the energy and fish farms, why don't you hit it a little bit hard and then drive so hard, that they'll pay attention and they'll go to hell? I'm sorry about your language, Mr President, and then we can invent something else. Could it be that people are driven for some reason, that now they need to find a new tow ready for the bus to continue because there's always so much fun at the party? There's always so much fun at the party. Never slow down and pay attention and take steps in such a way that you are standing. There's always something like this going on in Iceland, and I have to say you don't understand what the drive is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u44	Mr. President. True, it may be something that the government holds or hopes. But I'd still like to point out that the development of the energy sector, as has happened, has at least Fifty-five, ten-year-olds, I'd think. It may be easier for the government to repair the damage they caused, in part, by the last events that took place here in the air and the tourist service, except that, despite everything and by the predictable recession now in the tourism service, I am no better than that we are still likely to get here in the country this year about 2 million tourists, and in itself, I believe that I have made it quite long enough to receive a large number of people. There are, however, all kinds of things that can be done for a short time in order to improve efficiency there. For example, a request has been submitted by the Central Order on Precaution in Airbnb, etc. Once again, so that these things can be corrected and corrected in various ways. Like what? A senator knows that we have also asked questions about flight security in Iceland. We want to nurture what kind of life we have. I can't see in itself that the energy structure that it is now in the maps is a short-term solution to us, except that if it's in the hands of foreign parties and/or national fortune-traveling professionals, it doesn't naturally come to create the state or the state's resources, at all times, as I say in the bang, so I don't even believe that this is the case. [[The president calls.]] Of course, something is behind which we do not know what is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u45	President. I started to discuss a discussion about the third energy package in Norway, in Norwegian politics, and the fact that Iceland decided to redirect the case to the joint EEA committee will give it a chance to seek justice there or to ensure the warnings they have put on one-sided with the energy package at the EEA Committee, i.e. To have real leave. It seems that someone in Norway and here in Iceland do not like the idea that this case is going to go back to that opinion and will not even want these one - sided warnings of the North to become real warnings. But let's see who these warnings are, since it's very good information for us in Iceland with regard to the discussion here. Bear in mind, though, that this seems to be a real legal advance, which people see no evidence of being taken into account by the European Union. The first warning, president - as amazing as it may seem, the government, as far as I can see it, did not bother to translate this advance and present this case, but the first captain of the Norwegian people reads in some way: All water control must be in the hands of a state and rural society. - All monitoring of water supply activation should be on the hands of state and rural society. This, of course, contradicts the goal of the third energy package. One of the sources says: The general possession of Norwegian water resources should be available and at least two-thirds should be owned by public members. - Again, it is hard to see that this is in line with what is provided in the third energy package. The third priority of Norway is as follows: Norwegian, renewable energy production will contribute to increased resource production and employment in Norway and will replace fossil fuels for renewable energy. Once again, we have come to a warning that is the case in Iceland, where he is concerned very much with Icelandic interests, what has been talked about, the importance of energy production, in this case of Norway, which is the same as it was in Iceland, is designed to contribute to greater wealth production in the country and the development of employment. Not without reason, then, the Norwegians may see the reason to try to alert them. It has been claimed that the claims that we needed such warnings were not valid. Four Norwegian heads of eight: The Norwegian government should self-monitoring all of the decisions that are important for energy security in Norway, including industrial and energy-related decisions. Once again, a one - side notice from Norway, which appears to be in opposition to the target of the third energy package but has fallen for that, by the Norwegians, to try to strengthen their position against this third energy package and to meet the concerns we have been describing in Iceland only to be accused of isolation policies and to distribute information that cannot be tolerated. The fifth captain of the North is saying -- now I see, President, that the time is running out and I have not even been able to go over unless half of the power package has been able to read but half the warnings of the Norwegian Council by the third energy package. But when it turns out that these warnings are opposed to the main policy set out in the third energy package and are inclined to protect ourselves against what we are trying to defend here in Iceland, the consequences of its induction of energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It is interesting how he has been reviewing the warnings given by the Norwegian Labour Party, if I recall correctly, to that energy package in Norway. I'd like to have a place to say. A senator will discuss this later in the discussion. I came across a very interesting article on the Web site Will, by the Hildur Thorarensen engineer, in which it meditates on the waste of our energy and what happens to the introduction of a three-fold energy package, the European Union directive, to the reality of the waste of our energy. It shows that there is considerable excess energy in the system, approx. 10% of extra electricity in the system produced by Land activation, which is stated in this article by permission of presidents: ...in recent months, each story after the other has appeared to people who are interested in the use of power in Iceland. One writer noted an interest in setting up windmills and mentioning a Norwegian company belonging to a local partner, and has the right to say that such companies are not involved in business ventures, it is quite clear, but they are interested in investing in the windmills of Iceland. The writer also mentions a number of parties, according to the website of the Energy Institute for Water Power Functions, the company of Arctic Hydra. So I want to ask you why. Senator: Must not assume that the reason for this greater interest is related to this matter, i.e. a pack of three energy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u47	President. It seems obvious to me that this great increase of interest, manifested in various ways in these energy parks and investments in water rights and even whole energy companies or stocks in them, is linked to this core European policy and is expected to succeed. It seems obvious to me that men do not attack this vast investment, which, in some cases, as in some of these wind - power parks, would seem less likely to carry them, if they have to sell their energy according to the list in Iceland. As a result, it seems obvious to me that this is a matter of man's reliance on the ability to attack the export and receive higher energy prices as a result of this third energy package. This is also in conflict with many warnings from the Norwegians and shows that they are not taken seriously, let alone this so - called warning here in Iceland, which has not been found; there have been some sentences in a paper with a synonym, something like that. But even in Norway, where people are trying to make legal warnings, there seems to be nothing to be done with them, and these investors, these companies, are acting as if they are not real, and they don't matter, and that the goal of the third energy package will be achieved through electronic energy prices and higher energy prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I totally agree with him on this. It must be obvious, when there is excess power in the system and people want to try to sell the energy they intend to work here on land, wind mills, hydropower workers, etc., they're thinking about exporting. It's just that it doesn't work. Similarly, these parties must strongly oppose the granting of a permanent discharge from this directive. Can't it be said that these companies are being replaced if we receive permanent release because we don't have to do this? By the government's methodology, there is an open possibility that we can connect with this system and take the next step of the cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u49	President. I would go further and argue that it is not only possible to keep the possibility open, but to send the message that we, the Icelandic government, are not going to get in the way, and it's safe to invest in this article, even in the wind gardens, which may not have been considered highly competitive with the hydro-engineerings or our geologists, that it is safe for humans to invest in such things as trust that the Icelandic government is not only to be able not to get in the way but also to contribute to the aim of this third energy package and that humans will soon be given the opportunity to sell this energy at a higher price than it is now and to sell it at the whole European level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Davíð, who was not finished with Gunnlaugsson, began his talk. I look forward to the future because the rest, um... is going to go over. half of the warnings made by the Norwegians during the induction of a pack of three energy. These eight warnings from the Norwegian authorities are a truly remarkable case, a very important case, and it is a remarkable case that no one is to be driven by the Icelandic government to review this warning, to address the benefits and reasons for their success and to address the fact that, despite the fact that they have gone along for 14 months, these six - month rules that are passed through the contract and are set as criteria to resolve differences or any problem that may arise. Is it not surprising that any people who have interest in energy market investment seem to be connected by one person with the existing warnings, Norwegian or Icelandic, in a way that will not happen to them, i.e. that they will not prevent the targets and policies of EU energy banks? It seems that they are convinced, in the steps they now take in their investments and in their policies, that the requested warnings do not prevent anything from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u51	President. That's what I'm talking about. A senator correctly describes in my opinion the incomprehensible fact that the Icelandic government has not examined these warnings and their motives, taking into account the work in this case. It would be nothing new to look toward the northern countries, or Norway, especially, and what happens there in politics. It's hardly a day here at the council that you don't see how things are interpreted or what they're doing, especially in the European community. So it is incomprehensible that in this large matter, it is simply decided to overlook the great issues that arose in Norway and the warnings that the Norwegian Parliament saw as a reason to state. But with regard to the second question, why? A senator, of attitude, including I think it's safe to say that everyone knows what's going on. All of us know this, except for some members of the Independence Party who chose to believe, what was called by the former chairman of its great, praiseworthy deception, believe these praiseworthy deceptions, so called by this former chairman and European leader. This is what the presidents of Icelandic employment have written. We've been over this at the council. There's been a lot of talk in the media, and I can see that almost everyone realizes that all of these warnings are out of control, and he realizes what's going on with the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason gave the answers. I think it's clear that we're at the point where it's safe to say that everyone knows what's really going on here, even though we can just throw up questions here and pretend that this is all a mystery. Of course not. We've got a private supply of Iceland's electrical power system. This is Norway's nuclear power system private. It is intensification of Europe's electrical energy system to an increased extent beyond what is currently being run through, by the most inconspicuous nature, I would like to say, the European Union's energy policy at the expense of countries that have no interest in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u53	President. To reiterate my answers to questions. I simply pointed out to the director of national activation's declaration that not bringing in the third energy package would weaken the company's contract position against a major industry because men could not then ask for a much higher price. In other words, the director assumes a link to this European market and a higher price will follow. The same government that points to this declaration in support of its statement will try at the same time to say that it really has no effect on Iceland. The rumors of this energy package's advocates are shouting, and the examples of these paradoxs are growing just as the discussion unfolds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. What he stepped into at the beginning of the talk and turned to the position the Norwegian came to would conclude that we referred the case to the joint EEA committee, which I would like to ask myself. A senator's point of view. From the top of the story, I think I've been there at first or in my second talk. - it has been said repeatedly and quite unbelievably often and by many alleged advocates that the opposition to the third energy package was driven primarily and supported by some Norwegian interests. I came into my first or second speech that I did not recognize the Norwegian lawsuit, but I can't speak for every skeptic about the energy package if we look to it as true about half of the population. What brings my attention now is a question of concern. A senator that would open up the Norwegian position regarding bringing his eight warnings into the European Commission, which they failed at the first event. And whether he thinks they're even. The high pressure that appears to be from the Government classes to be running this case unchanged with as the smallest debate of the individual party members is somehow linked to helping the Norwegian government not to find themselves in the uncomfortable position of bringing the case into the joint EEA committee a little against their will right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u55	President. To help the Norwegian right management, the left movement is now designed to avoid actually having to face the warnings that I started to trace. Hv. A senator pointed to, I would say such things as, unpublished theories, so you're polite, chief. Secretary of state that the opposition to this would come primarily from Norway. But from Norway, where does that opposition come from? Of course not true, and it is important to reiterate that some Norwegians direct this discussion here. But where would it come from? It comes to form from the various Norwegian political groups, including the Norwegian Class. It comes from the Norwegian labor movement, which comes from the Norwegian public, which is as concerned as the public is by the introduction of this energy package. In that country, people have already begun or may already have come to realize how small the warnings used there are, as if they used their peculiar version of advance warnings in Iceland, to pass the case through the council. Then these models are sent to the European Union, sent to Brussels, and there is no answer. One month goes by, two months, three months, four months, ten months, 11 months, 12, 13, 14 months have passed. There's not an answer yet, just because they don't take any notice of it and the Norwegians have figured it out and they may see a chance of getting back to the same EEA committee so they can get their share as we do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. This is exactly what seems to be better and better, as the discussion goes forward, that it seems more than we have allowed the case to go further than perhaps desirable, and more than we seem to be in that position - when I say I'm talking about Iceland, Icelandic administrative and Icelandic politics - it seems that there's more than we're in the position that there's a second chance, so to have the conversation that's necessary to have on the leave and advice and at the level of which it is intended, to be shared with the EEA Committee. At least, it seems to me that the Norwegians must remain on the possibility that there will be an opportunity for them to adopt the case of the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]] See what? A senator's opposition to Norwegian interests in terms of an opportunity to open up?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u57	President. Not at all, but there may be some in the Norwegian government or some Norwegian European government officials who believe it would be worse to expose the case, so to speak, by referring it back to the joint EEA committee. What you see when you consider the warning of the Norwegian Council is what the interests of the Icelanders and the Norwegians are together. In fact, it is remarkable that these warnings of the Council and the fact, such as the case, are such. paritaprevir Sæmundsson noted earlier that the conclusion of the Norwegian Court is now being made that this is now coming up with a discussion in relation to this third energy package and that the Icelandic government, apparently, simply wanted to put these facts underneath a chair and avoid being brought into this discussion, these facts that are of enormous importance to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u58	A respectable president. In this speech, I would like to continue with the portion of my talks that I would like to call "And then what?" What will happen, either immediately in the introduction of the rules or in the setting of a cable? What I wanted to include in my talk is the predictable trend in the domestic market. There are some factors, in part, at the time of induction, such as an increase in monitoring costs, which may not be the high cost mail but still a reason to mention that, as I say, it comes immediately upon induction. Conspiracy, by permission of the president, was a reference to this induction by the Syndicate. It says, by permission of the president: With this in mind, it is not necessary to address the need to increase the monitoring costs as determined by 31 g. Electrical layer to the extent suggested to 6. The bill, and it doesn't matter if it is expected that the cost of the ministry will be dropped. To be honest, it is not fair to think of Sami as an umbrella organization, an energy market company, as if to hide that costs are, of course, pondered into the prices. It may also be anticipated by other costs. But this is what comes about right away. Then there is the trend that will be involved in the market link, not later, that we approach some intermediate or market prices in the European pool, and we are in a place that is so undisputed that prices will be made to companies and individuals considerably higher than what we know in Iceland. Then many say: Wait, is there anything wrong with our paying the same electrical price as in Europe? My answer to this is: Yes, the situation is very hard to find in our beautiful North Atlantic country, and there are many things that work against us, especially the companies who work here, and make it harder for them to compete with an international company. One of the competitive priorities of a company in Iceland has been an economist of electricity prices, and I think that if we find that a competitive premium will be taken from that company, whether it is a company, a major industry, a vegan producer, another agriculture, or, in any case, they are going to feel strongly that this competitive advantage is taken by the people who work here. It will, of course, contribute to the reduction of the work in Iceland or will be fully exported to abroad, either closer to markets or closer to the source of the natural resources needed to be used for production. Now you know well the major impact the industry has on the sectors that service those companies, and I think you have to determine exactly what the long-term effects will be. It is not reasonable to try to get away from this discussion by saying: "Why shouldn't we be able to pay the same price as a company and a home in Europe? As I say, there are other costs that are higher here because of the people's size and size, and I'm sure we'll try to secure the position that Icelandic companies and homes enjoy an ideal electrical price for a predictable future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. He has been moving a little through this subject and deepening only in every speech, i.e.: And then what? Hv. A senator in his speech agreed that prices will develop in such a way that it will be considerably higher than we know in this country today and will approach or become something near the average of what it is in Europe. I can inform them I work with a considerable number of people who have settled in Europe and have made a rough comparison of what is being paid, e.g. for electricity for use in normal homes, for making 100 m2 apartments, and that is approximately twice what I pay for a house that counts three times that size. We have a report prepared in Norway that deals with the facts of the European Union, industry, and energy prices. The original - language report, with the permission of the president: ◯Us energination, Strømprisene, and Industrene, and the conclusion of this report describes the consequences of this energy input. I would like to ask that question. A senator knows whether he or she is aware that a social and economic analysis of what such prices would mean for an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. I'm not aware of such social assessment, although it would certainly be good for us to have access to such an assessment. I don't think anyone needs to doubt that the effects of significant changes in energy prices will become substantial in the sectors that are specifically dependent on electricity. Follow-up members of the bill or induction will say this: It will be returned by some other means, tax declines, or other improvements. In this context, the steps simply scare. We see simple cases, such as the insurance fees of an enterprise that for years has been far beyond the premium for collecting companies, and that is constantly said by politicians: We're going to lower this now, we're going to lower this - but it's going to fall very slowly, i.e. The insurance bill. So I'm therefore the opinion, unfortunately, in view of the bad experience of the political ability or inability to cope with reducing the rate of work and fear that only one part of the park would be completed in this matter, i.e. to raise electrical prices, but what should come in is slow and bad. There could be several examples of government action, with cost - price teams running out, but the counterweight action is waiting for better time and often more permanent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would like to continue to discuss the results of the report, which is quite remarkable. Its conclusion says, with permission of the president: The most important effect of the approved energy package must be that Norway must adopt market prices in the European Union's common energy market. Induction of energy panels 3 and 4 translates huge investments in sea cables and other lines (estimated to be $140 billion, up to 2040), regardless of whether excess energy is available in Norway. They also discuss that tens of thousands of jobs are in danger, and I think that there is something we need to be very well aware of, whether below hundreds of jobs, thousands of jobs are so secondary to them, or how this affects us. We'll get back to the point where we're not ready. [[The president calls.]] We need more time to consider this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u62	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm sorry, I think so. paritaprevir Þór Þorvaldsson knows that all these things are at the same well. We need more time to go through this and discern both the situation and the effects of different scenarios are likely to arise. I don't think anyone's got any doubt that this will affect industry and industry has a high ratio of secondary jobs linked to each company. It has come as a surprise to me, I have to admit that the chairman of the Industrial Association was one of the eight professionals and members of the organization who wrote an encouraging article in the process of accepting the energy package. In fact, the wording of those articles was very careful. I think it was the most dangerous piece of words that ever came up, so I'm not sure that the meaning was great, but sometimes peer pressure is out of control. For example, we need to look at the concern of gardeners' society, the company of the bakers, and the groups where it is obvious that the effects are so obvious that they are affected or that the companies, i.e. ... thecrowding. I think, as I said at the beginning of my reply, we might have more time to analyze this. These things have just not been detected, as far as I know, in terms of depth. I'm here myself speaking out of the feeling of these things, but I think that approach is as good as it should be, so to speak, enlightened girk, and available at this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm interested in asking him out only in the report of a jetline project to industrial and commercial ministers from July 2016. This is an interesting report in many respects, and it is a good introduction to this discussion. On page 18. 16 says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Landsnet regularly publishs its projection of the electrical transport system until the next ten years. The Landsnet System Plan is considered for the 2015/2024 network. The report contains a detailed discussion on the potential structure of the main transport system if a cable is to be laid and its effect. This report explains that there has been a lot of work to do in preparation, research, and other activities related to the use of a cable. The expansion and usefulness of new hydropower workers, which would be built by a marine cable, will also be discussed with regard to the need to assess the changing water supply operations in terms of tsunami threats that could threaten public safety. The technical issues related to the potential transcontinental cable to Europe and its impact on the transport systems of electricity are discussed. Here's a report to the Ministry and it's done that a huge job has been put on this project. Now, there's supposed to be a law here, so called a warning, that there's no sea cable. In view of all this work, I ask: Is it not rather unfaithful that it should then be stopped by law? [[The president calls.]] Not only will these laws be removed soon after they are made?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u64	A respectable president. Whether the government is Europeanized or is on its policy list to open up the channel of sea cables, although it may not have been discussed in a campaign, it could be very hopeless to face such a situation. On the last day of the campaign, the chairman of VG - now I'm relating material, not verbal - that the Chairman's political party would not be involved in applying for involvement in the European Union in the end of the election. Before many weeks had passed, the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had sent an application to Brussels, so such things are all subject to change. If a man were to have a government as a confederate of Conspiracy, Action, and Piranium, so that I mention the groups that seem the most interested in involvement in the European Union, I would likely believe that the government would be quick to support the rules that would be needed to change for this matter to have a fulfillment. In my political climate, things have never changed faster than the date before the 2009 election until the period of the Member State's application was sent for Iceland's adaptation conventions into the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think this is a very important document of this discussion; to say, this is a public report to the Ministry which goes very closely into the sea cables and its contents, increased activation projects, etc. Such a report, of course, is made on the request of the Ministry, with awareness and will of the government, and with government costs. Then the same government is going to set up a law against this cable, so there are strong paradoxs in this. I think this planned legislation regarding the cable, that it will not be laid, is, as it has been observed here, to atone for the root of political parties, which are very conflicting with their marches in this matter. I give you the grass root of the forward party and the grass roots of the Independence Party. And then you said "whipped." A member of the proper political movement left green, and you put a question mark on it, and you are especially surprised that a group that has had the environment on its surface should not realize that this induction, and the steps being taken, is meant to translate increasing activation projects; it is quite prepared, both in wind energy and in water energy - that people should not put a warning about this induction on that basis; it makes you think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u66	A respectable president. I think it's right to think that I'm following further energy efficiency and the power supply of electricity within the country, so it doesn't make sense to the contrary. I know that it was requested to call a national protection system to the State Department, but it was rejected at the last meeting of the Committee, at the meeting that the case was taken out, in view of the fact that it had noticed that an organization such as Land Protection had not even submitted a review of the matter. I know what wasn't the reason, but it's probably gonna happen over the next few days, weeks, or months. It was of particular interest that some organizations did not give in to the discussion of this huge case. I allow me to name Land Protection and various environmental organizations. I allow me to mention Samlia, but it was very interesting to me that they didn't pass in the review of the existence of an umbrella company of the largest energy buyers in the country. I have to admit, I haven't gotten the bottom of it yet. I hope I can figure that out sometime. But it will be an exciting explanation to learn that the largest electrical buyers in the country do not see a reason to turn in a review. An organization such as this submits the very wide range of Parliamentary fleas: But, no, not a raffle on the induction of the third energy package. That was interesting to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u67	V.E.G. President. I'd like to step in to what I'd like to call the Allallism of a pack of three energy slightly different from what I've been doing so far. It is planned in the coming days to take a stand on a forward notice because of the induction of a pack of three energy. We may need to appreciate just how this is going to be done, whether the warnings are real. Thirty-nineth. a power layer, no. 65/2003, which is the current law, says: A four - year - old minister proposes every four years to the General for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. The current policy is revealed, in the council resolution of No. 26/148 from June 11, 2008, the conclusion of Congress - what I would like to say is that the votes of Congress are the Universal Declaration. They are given special treatment. Such suggestions are inferred, and they are discussed with two discussions at the General Assembly. Such rules as such or some requirement for specific activities may be included in the consonants of this arrangement, but it is an obstacle to the fact that they contain binding rules, such as laws. The Council's review and their material treatment at the General Assembly are different from the subject treatment of a prime project. While the Council can agree to a synonym and it contains some kind of binding commands, it stands below the law. The treatment of the Parliamentary arrangement is simpler than a law projector, as I mentioned earlier. In addition, the member of the legislature government, the president of Iceland, is not involved in the giving of the Senate resolutions, i.e. Congress cannot change the law. Its completion includes that the Court of the Supreme Court, 1943, on page 20. 92 have been confirmed that individuals are unable to form their rights during a judicial hearing when there is a legal order. The Agency has now moved forward, stating that the nation's interest in the induction of the electricity directive is linked to a so-called third energy package and that it makes sense that it is a special decision that the link or electrical transport is established by the U.S.A. and therefore aims to be achieved by the following legislation, i.e. ... withthetwoauthorities that have been submitted. Another is to accept the synonym, which involves a change in the interpretation of the No. 26/148, which I mentioned earlier, which is to be added to the Senate resolution of the following text: The link between the nation's electronic energy systems to other countries through a cable is not going to be triggered unless it's agreed by Generalis. It has to be agreed before the implementation of a system plan can be carried out. The basis for such a decision by the General shall provide a comprehensive assessment of the environmental, social, and economic effects of such connections and implementation. I came into it in my answer just before what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason had completed this analysis. I don't know about that. I didn't know what to do. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for that. It may lie somewhere, but at least it has not been introduced in the context of this synonym. The other part of the route is to accept a change in electronic law, No. 65/2003, the current legislation, which gives a new paragraph in Article 9. The power layer will be 6 mg. which says: The link between the country's electrical energy systems and other countries through cables is based on government policy on the structure of electricity transport systems. What's that policy? I see that I'm out of time, and I didn't get close through what I was going to say and wait for it. Mr President, to add me back to the rosary so I can finish my business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd like to move on for a few minutes, since I quoted an interesting article in the Web site's Will by the Hildur Sif Thorarensen engineer that deals with excess energy in the system, i.e. Iceland's electrical energy system, up to 10% of what is produced each year, but at the same time it is clear that the activations are growing in Iceland, allowing large and small numbers in the process of activation, so the interest is getting bigger. It says that they are actually not in harmony with the energy demand. A company such as Icelandic energy sharing, an enterprise founded by the Bjarni Ármannsson investor, made contracts for electronic exchanges of 65 megawatts at the beginning of this year according to a report published in the Morning Press, and there are other investors who show this interest. In other words, interest is to increase, but at the same time, there is extra power in the system. This tells us that unless they see some advantage in such investments, they will not be able to sell their energy within the country when there is already an excess in the system. Then I think it's possible to put this into context that these parties are looking at a cable. That's why I want to get past it. A member of the council whether it is quite clear that they are benefiting from a sea cable and therefore will be pressured by the government when it comes to removing this legal warning that there will not be a sea cable here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. This article Hildur the Sif, published in Will, is an article I know. It reviews the stage a little, and there are some interesting speculations that appear in that article. It thus suggests that groups of investors, some of them linked, others less, are evidently interested in investing in a system with high levels of products out of demand. At first glance, it does not make sense that there is a lot of money to be expected that makes you wonder what to do with it. There must then be hope that demand will increase, and so on, in a more predictable future. It's a grappling unless it's in the process of laying a sea cable. But what calls attention to this is that those people with great interest in the energy sector, in investments, all seem to associate with the warnings being put here, or plans to be set, in that they never come to stop anything. And that's what interests me, that those who are deeply involved and who have been thinking about these matters know that this is a private matter. They know that by means of investment in this field they will have access to Iceland's energy sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A very good diagnosis of what I was discussing was made by a senator. I agree with what. A senator in this regard, and you just wonder in view of this, that the members, the investors, who are so interested in achieving energy production in Iceland, seem to have no concern about these warnings. Then the question may be: Are these not just warnings that they will be able to maneuver the matter over and to atone the root of these groups, both the root of the independence party and the forward party, so that there will be no disunition there, and men can only put the matter through with relatively little effort? The only trouble is that here, members of the council need to be at the council to listen to the Central Party contradict these plans in the natural hope that we Central Parliaments will end this coverage, and then this will pass through. Thank you. A senator for this diagnosis. This is clearly stated by him in this matter, the simple and the core of the matter, that these people seem not to be concerned about these matters, that they are being prevented by their plans to import electricity into large quantities. There are two things that cause concern, mainly that electricity for households and businesses in the country, results in increasing and increasing production plans, natural causes them to have considerable environmental impacts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, the interest is great and is growing, and not only in Iceland, but also in other countries such as Norway, which has been shown in this discussion, i.e. in countries with a lot of renewable cleaner energy. I'm not going to stand here and say that I'm surprised at that interest. I understand these men well, they're investors, they're in investments and their jobs are to let money work for them, to get money into such investments to the best of profit. However, this understandable interest in them does not necessarily harmonize with social interests in such areas as Iceland. There is not necessarily so that market application of these factors would benefit the public, as has actually been shown in countries such as Sweden, where market areas were increasing, and the availability of energy for citizens increased, i.e. The number of people who sold it grew, but the benefits were lower. That's why I think there's an enormous number of factors at this point that are being developed into national, social, and economic analyses on the effects of these plans in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. I remember that at the beginning of this conversation in the third energy package, I made the subject of the warning, or rather, a lack of it. As I was in a foreign country observing these discussions as I could, I was shocked to learn that in the middle of this discussion, people suddenly did not recognize that the biggest warning against the issues we are going through was not to be found. Since then, it has been found that it should be placed in a Regulation. There's nothing to watch. I cut it off in one of my talks here that the newspaper editor Bloomberg would have shown that the best investment opportunities in the Western world, no less or less, were in electronic energy in Iceland. I don't know if I should ask. A member of the council, whether this indiscriminateness I would like to call it, may follow the government's warning, whether it may be that this lack of legal warnings - I don't think it is possible to call the appointed premises, or proclaimed, legally so as to keep them. The question is, Could it be that this is a cause of complacency, which is one more factor that should address this issue that we are now discussing, and that this in complacency may be at the root of the fact that here is this excess demand for activation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to answer the question and answer it contained. She's very interesting. Because there is a lack of regular work, it is always convenient to move, where good space is available to settle in and out of the streets. In Iceland, e.g. not an overall energy policy, which may make it work, such as the driving force. A member of the council has wondered that the excess demand we've discussed following my talk may come about by the government's failure to realize that the government can, at least for a short time, and in the predictable future, become a kind of wild west for investors, that here, a semi-gold burial suit may take place, there can be adequate funds to do so, and to ensure a great deal of interest for the long-term future in the resources of the country's resources - is the basis for the fact that the real hope of humans who have imagined to be placed, or missing, as we would like to say, is that nothing would be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u74	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer, but then I think that he too may be, and I would like to ask him why. A senator will see if he can agree with me for this increased interest that these fine men who are investing in energy, of course, are extremely attentive and have become aware of it, just as we Icelanders have seen, that the Canadians who bought HD Energy at their time, ten years ago, have doubled their investment. Because it's not from nothing that Bloomberg can reach this conclusion, so I wonder if there's a connection between us. Then we have here powerful Icelandic investors, who have since 2016 or previously declared their ultimate will to establish a link with a cable, powerful Icelandic investors. You wonder if the forwarding of this council-student proposal and all the compromises - the measure being done, the determined to run this case against the will of more part of the nation, the feeding, the warning, the complacency - must be the same well, that people are offering the risk home, that people are offering it home to gather money workers who intend to produce energy at Iceland at a higher price than the current energy produced. Then the question is, What are we going to do with that energy? [[The president calls.]] Where are they going to sell it? Are the prices to be raised within the country by energy, or are you going to form a mirage, or at the horizon, that they can sell this energy elsewhere? What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u75	V.E.G. President. I think that's where we're going during the discussion. Senator, we can just talk about this in clean English. I think it's quite early that there's a business chance here. I don't blame people for wanting to make money. I think that's the best part. But in the work we do here, we are assigned to care for the nation's interests. In this particular matter, their interests are going along with those purposes. And, yes, I think it's early to see that through a cable, a cable opens up to sell equal currents to Europe and that with such a cord, 2 million homes can be lit up. That's a lot. We can imagine the income of it on the price log in the European Union, which is considerably higher than here. On the other hand, I think it's early to realize that those investing in such things are expecting to multiply their investment, possibly triple it if that is the case. I don't know exactly what it is, and I haven't seen the numbers, but I'm taking the words of the senators who have been here talking about investing in HS Ens ten times their investment. Looking at such things will result in rich fruitage over a period of ten years in a historical setting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u76	Mr. President. I earlier noted this discussion in a series of articles. paritaprevir The Br ratherus Haraldsdóttir in the Morning Press today, or yesterday, actually, it's past midnight, the clock is 15 minutes to three, covering a careful treatment of the third energy package. When I called attention to the article earlier tonight, I wished for it. A member of the council hall answered certain statements in the article that are wrong. It is essential that we do so. A senator will come here and discuss this article and its contents because this same is the case. A member of the council, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, has accused the Central Party, including the one listed here, of handling this matter falsely. In particular, the matter focuses on the increase in electricity prices for households and enterprises in the country through the induction of energy packages one and two. This article will help us to understand why. A senator talking about the energy package saying, by permission of the President: Instead, his rules are for the better of Icelanders because of increased consumer protection and rules that promote an increase in competition and equality between parties, which should generally promote a lower price. This is a mismatch because energy prices increased during the induction of a energy package one and two. Here, for example. A newspaper article in Science, February 2005, reads: Energy prices are rising because of energy laws. I'm just going to quote it, with the permission of a president: There is a growing prices in many countries because of a new electrical law forbidding a variety of specialities that used to be offered. ... New energy laws are causing a higher energy price to a considerable number of consumers, such as to form small companies that previously enjoyed subsidies at the energy plant in Reykjavík. ... Industrial farmers are also victims of energy law as well as a number of landowners - I emphasize it - ◯ in the region, which uses electricity for eutrophication. In addition, this article says that the then industrial minister has claimed that no higher energy prices would be due to the new law. However, the opposite is true of what a minister says. Of course, Mr. President, there's a minister coming up, saying that energy prices don't raise, and then it goes up to a lot of users. That's why I think it's safe to make a statement here and now that statements such as shown in an article. A senator does not make it a point to stand up, and he is really wrong in this regard. Claims 'em all. Senators who support this issue of high energy prices don't come up - it doesn't take any human credible, just in the light of what happened at a energy pack of one and two. For example, I have a table here, and I'm gonna show it back now because it has something to do with what I'm saying - a table over the increase in electricity prices from January 2013 to January 2017. The average increase in these six electrical halls is 19.6%, with less than 20% increase in this period at the same time as the index price increased by less than 9%. The claims of increased consumer protection and lower energy prices fail. I'm particularly reminded that at the beginning of this discussion, which has been going on for quite some time, I brought this up in my first speech about this energy package that energy prices had gone up to consumers and that I especially remember what happened. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir called out of the hall that I was wrong. It's just gonna have to talk here, Mr. President, at what? A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. I think it's just part of what worries people looking at how the third energy package is coming after the induction, both now and again, when a cable has been laid. Most of the data I've at least seen indicate that there will be a cost in it, and history tells us - I don't know any person, and I don't know any family where there was a decrease in electrical prices compared to the development of an index in the last 10◯15 years since the first and second energy package went through. V.E.G. Industrial minister, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, has written an article about low energy prices, but I haven't read a story yet. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir in the Morning Press this morning, but if I understood a speech, The panel was just presented with a theory that there was a predictable reduction due to the induction of the third energy package. How does that measure? A senator of this predicts why. paritaprevir Is it Bryndís Haraldsdóttir?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's counterargument and legitimate and important reflections on political credibility when making such claims. I must say, I am deeply sad about the way the officials and those who follow this case have at times accused us of taking false charges. Here we go. paritaprevir The tribe of forwards, who said that he had never seen any of the same in the minority of the Central Party on the Foreign Affairs Committee in this regard. In the white world, however, when it comes to one of the most important aspects of the matter, it is an electrical price to the public in the country and the companies in the country. This is what worries people most, that taking this step into this market area will lead to a further increase in electricity prices. The story says, this happened in a energy package one, it happened in a pack of two energy, and there's all signs that this will also take place at the induction of a pack of three that is trying to drive through. I have to say, as to credibility, that these same senators must have to answer for this when it comes to elections, that they have only done unfounded letters in these matters. Then we come back to the General position against the public, that it's not to improve it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u79	Mr. President. I stole to print an article on it. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's daughter, with them up in a pit as far as possible. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children brought with them. While we're still at it. A senator came here in reply, I read through the main points of the article. Here is a complete non-communicative presentation. paritaprevir The prison of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir has been very concerned about what kind of disaster it is that has doubts about the induction of the third energy package, which appears to be right about half of the nation and a more than one part of the party she is attending to. It says the third energy package, with permission of the President: Instead, his rules are for the better of Icelanders because of increased consumer protection and rules that promote an increase in competition and equality between parties, which should generally promote a lower price. There is no attempt to apply this to the real world what in this system of things, this induction, should in general contribute to a lower price, as the article says. Happily, though, we are not far from the real world in the discussion that there are not many who go so far as to say that prices will be reduced by the induction of the third energy package. Some people may claim that prices will not rise, but Samaria makes clear that it will, but ◯ Which should generally contribute to the lower price, it is a completely new approach, and it puts everything else in place. þm. In this article, the comical context of Bryndís's daughter shows that he is a different person. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u80	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator and his diagnosis of this article, which is really unscrupulous and needs to be discussed specifically. I've wanted to have this conversation with you in particular. A senator and I hope she will grant that request in this discussion, Mr. President. It is only very important to the public and to the language that the Council has presented to us in this matter. It's a writer, isn't it? paritaprevir Ennis Haraldsdóttir, specifically refers to consumer protection, and more members of the board have identified consumer protection as one of the important advantages of enforcing this energy package in the European Union. Hv. paritaprevir Insolent Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir has also promoted consumer protection so important that energy sales can be replaced. I've mentioned this in the past, Mr. President, so that very few people are taking advantage of changing energy sales because there is almost no profit. The discount offered to reduce the power balance is so small that it hardly works. It is now all this blessed consumer protection. I think people should just stick to the facts in this case. The electrical price will go up. I'm sure this will increase because the energy companies have already said that the increase in monitoring costs, which is about 45%, immediately involved in the implementation of this energy package, will go directly into the prices. [[The president calls.]] The energy companies have already told us, so we're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the words he had earlier, and without my going to make a special impression on the article quoted, is very funny because the article entitled "Administrative Treatment of the Third Energy Package. " Then the content is just what it is, so it's pretty funny in itself. What has concerned me, however, is that those who follow the energy package do not seem generally informed about what it contains. I'd like to quote another senator, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who says that the advance party has not only belts and bracelets but the creamed wigs and the taste pants and new shoes in this case. I'm going to say, like Laddi and Lady, that I like to see it, but it seems that support for this whale. Women and other followers of this energy package - I mention, for example At the right time. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson has been so concerned that energy prices have increased, on the contrary, it has fallen. Then a baker's national union holds the opposite, and there are men who use tremendous amounts of electricity. So I'm just going to go over it with a what? A senator whether he is rather concerned that the great support he gives in the council is based on information that may not be correct or information that may not have fully understood a chorus. It is a matter of concern for itself, and it comes back to what we have been discussing here in this discussion, that the matter should be kept and taken into consideration, and that it should be further identified. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] According to this, this must also be further introduced to members of the smaller section, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees wholeheartedly with him that, of course, the matter should be made much better. I don't know any better than that. The minister of state has not said so long ago that this case might be delayed until the fall. There's been a change in that subject, but I don't know why. But it is clear that the matter must be handled much better, inform the public, and do certain diagnostic work. There's no way to make such a statement, politicians can't claim that energy prices, etc. will not be altered. like what happened with an energy pack one and two at the highest level. the industrial minister claimed that there would be no increase in electrical prices. What happened during the day? There were a lot of increases, both to house warming in the country, to small companies that bought cheap energy, some special contracts that were, all forbidden. The government never reported it in a presentation or a discussion of an energy package one and two that special contracts would be forbidden. The public was never told, and I think, as I actually traced in a speech yesterday, that if you look at the Ministry's letters on preparation for energy packing alone and two, I especially remember one sentence saying that there may be a change here. These special agreements were offered at the time. There was no greater knowledge in the Ministry than this, and they did not know what the consequences would be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u83	V.E.G. President. Yeah, this might be the whole point, that it seems that in this case, which is enormously complex, and all of us agree that the matter is enormously complex, except those who are so obsessed because they say it doesn't matter and it's all in the Google excuse, Mr. President - that we don't have to think about it, and we're just to accept it right away. Now I say again that I feel that this last popular debate over the matter deepened, that there were new things that we weren't aware of before, and then I say again what the public did. I don't understand for my little life that the government hasn't done more to introduce the matter, as complicated as it is, its benefits and its flaws to the public. I also don't understand if it's such an overcommunication to do this as it seems to be possible, why, on the other hand, people don't come up with them and count them all of these and say the 60% who take sides in the contract, why don't you come out with a list of reasons and say, "This is better, it's better, it's better, it's better, etc. and present evidence of this matter? Why, then, do not try to work against their opposing voters because the government groups are treading the matter through the council and pushing it into the neck of their followers, i.e. In the last election. I don't think they'll be followers of the next election, but that's what I do in a light bed. [[The president calls.]] But I really think, Mr. President, here, we need to have a much better approach to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I couldn't agree with him on this. This case needs to be presented much better and to eliminate the wrongs that have been made and then look in the rearview mirror and see what the consequences of a pack of energy alone and two had in their time, and they're to admit the facts, but they're not going out of it. I made a special note that on the evening news, Mr. Brar 2 tonight an interview was made. A senator and chairman of the State Department, Álaggi Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, in which she says the Central Party is in need of speech, the public's time is screwed and all the questions have been answered. It's just wrong. Senator, not all the questions have been answered. The question is not answered yet, why are the members of the management board here having false information regarding the rise in energy prices on a energy package one and two and why they can state the claim that electricity for consumers, households and companies in the country will not be able to raise the energy supply package three that we are about to implement today. It is only a matter of responsibility, Mr. President, that this is the way the members of Parliament can go before the national television news and argue that everything has been answered and that those who oppose it have false connections and that they have unfounded letters in that subject. This is a responsibility, and I'm going to hope, like a what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson said that the voters of these people, these senators, and their root, will see to it that these things are not done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u85	V.E.G. President. It is possible to draw a picture of the discussion that has been conducted here, both last week and last week, that this third energy package is much worse than any other issue in our life, and more seriously than we, opposers of the case, thought. This has been repeated in recent discussions. I'd like to give this talk and I'd like to have some of the next one prepare my opinion even more. Let us return to the beginning of this discussion when contemplating the office of authority, i.e. by the dean of custody, and by permission of the president's permission of the President, Friðrk, Friðriksson Árni of Hirst, and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, the son of Stephen: ▪ In view of the above, it is difficult to view the expansive office of the State as being equal to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 is well defined and defined. It seems rather necessary to view ESA authority as equivalent to 8. The Regulation would be vague and subject to interpretation of the above - mentioned terms. It has been tried to tell us that the fine scholars, who, of course, have tried to free themselves of politics as they can, and that is understandable and admirable - when Stefán Pálr Stefánsson arrives at Kastlight on May 6 and says first, with the permission of a president: While they are called in a judicial sense in the Regulation what they can do, we feel that this is not a complete list, and we stand a little in front of the question. The Kast Light Controller asks, with permission of the President: ▪ Yes, in that power supply? Stefán Stefánsson responds again, with permission of presidents: In the power trade. The inquirer asks them, by permission of the president: ▪ Then we stress that the authority we have to give up is defined by the fact that it is reserved and defined by the authority we are giving up to the institutions. By permission of the president, Stefán Stefánsson confirms this, saying: "Precisely. Then he adds a little later during the interview: But if you have undefined power, you can't see where it ends. This is what this fine scholar I say again, that he and his partner in his fine report went very wisely past political opinions and their findings that were quite different from those of some other sources. But the doubt is there, and a lot of times it's been told to us, over and over: you're on fire in this case. It's all bullshit. This is being done exactly as those fine men suggested. In fact, they have presented themselves publicly afterwards, saying: "No, no, no, it's not. We weren't offering anything. We just said, "This is our opinion, because these fine men were being completely tried to get into political bondage. " They fought back, of course, intelligent and simplistic because, of course, men who are such experts in their field of nature do not sacrifice their scholarly honor to become involved in politics. That's what you're telling yourself. Trying to get people into it is not a good practice. This comes out over and over because they say that if this case is over as it was now, then so on. - But the doubt is there, always there. I have said and said again, The matter of one man with this knowledge is enough for me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for his speech and his need for a review of that interview, which was just remarkable. That's exactly what this is all about, that they're trying to use the opinion of the scholars and our best specialists in politics. Of course, a request is made, but they have made it very clear that they are not offering one thing or the other, but they are pointing out what is possible, what is impossible, and what is involved, but leave it with the relevant politicians to make decisions based on their convictions. It has been carefully reviewed here that these specific regulations are being introduced in Icelandic correctly. In my next talk, I will take a closer look at this government alert. It is quite early to realize that there is no water at all, so we will bring it into Icelandic correctly. They have come to the conclusion in their opinion of 8th degree. Regulations 713/2009 adopted in the EEA Convention and introduced into Icelandic rights, i.e. in the unchanged picture without sending it back to the EEA Committee and changing it, it will include a transfer of power to ESA, which would otherwise be done by the Icelandic government. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see whether he believes that this is a power campaign and perhaps just an unsurpassed practice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u87	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's exactly what it is. Senator, and thank you for this answer. This is in itself exactly what I was saying, and in my next talk or speech, I will consider Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, based on data collected, I will review it better and further. But sum it up: Yes, that is, it is, in this capacity, and it is now spoken of in the original essay, which has been repeatedly quoted in this discussion, from the very beginning, that it is the greatest power production of any production in the EEA in Iceland, no more or less. Then you come in here and say, "Look, it doesn't matter, it's no big deal, but they still want to introduce this Regulation, although it's nothing, and it doesn't matter, and it doesn't bring anything to you, etc. This is certainly not an acceptable presentation, and at the same time, those who pay a warning and also want to listen to the nation's accusations about the other and this thing that I don't even want to pick up, such argumentless nonsense that repeatedly has been put in front of the people here, last yesterday in a judgment-free interview with the Chairman of the wooder who puts things that are not worth answering, such as a decrease in the fact that the good political woman has lost her self - esteem. Other than that, I'm not going to discuss her comments. But this is the thing which is crystalting, that those that warn are called invocations. A scholar's honor is questioned by those who also warn, and tried to withdraw into politics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This case hurts all the way over and over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the answer. A friend is a friend of caution. Here, the people who have been standing, and most of the time they have been doing only a warning and have offered up the case, have their right hand out, and have asked that it be slow and turned away, and that the matter be considered more carefully into the basement so that it can be made better, because it is quite remarkable that in the short, small, rare, and many of the subjects that have been held by government and government positions, though they are members of this introduction, there is one that stands up, and that all except for any of Pira Pita's members, and there may be a need for consideration, that it may not be possible to do the same. That is what almost everyone agrees with. Why, then, that it is absolutely impossible to hear those who are standing here most often taking their view of matters into account? What kind of politics are these? Is it not a mark of good leaders and politicians to use the art of conversation? Conversation is not the same as I quote them í Socrates. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u89	V.E.G. President. The middle class has published that it is a group that listens to viewpoints and if any others have better solutions to complex issues than the group itself accepts it after the inspection, taking into account, and taking care of themselves, etc. This quality does not appear to be dominant in the minds of those who exercise authority in the land, but it does not seem to be the dominant quality. And now I'm gonna say it like a dog. A former senator, Ögmundur Jónasson, said: This case is not supposed to be a predominant case. We are not here, this group, beating the Middle Party's drums on this case or beating our drums on the case. What we're simply pointing out is that we feel that this is the case now, that it has not been handled because it is in danger. What we don't want to get into and don't care about is that we told you. That's not what we're up to, we're standing here trying to warn us about this. We simply want the most clear route, the legal route, to be chosen. It has been suggested that it may follow political uncertainty. Then I'm going to say again: We're in the business of dealing with political uncertainty almost every day, but legal uncertainty cannot exist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. The opinion of the scholars Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst is still mentioned. A little parable was fired at me earlier today, and, of course, it's a bit of a twist, but not quite quite. Not long ago, Western eyes fought for a tunnel to be made in the Western Islands. The person standing here knows a bit, he was the assistant of a transport minister at the time of the island's supreme stroke, and the front of the category went the Árni Johnsen, a former senator. For example, during all of this, the law had been passed on by Danir, saying only Danish courts, having matters that would come up in the tunnel, and exercising judicial authority in them, but only after the tunnel had been buried. The laws were set up and accepted and effective as soon as the tunnel is buried. What does it say? paritaprevir Mr. Sæmundsson, do you think the senator thinks this law would have resisted a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u91	Mr. President. The person standing here likes the edge of the road, and he likes to use it, but the short answer to this question is: No. We did not give authority over the needs of the country's foundations to foreign courts or governmental authority. We do not, but it is what is suggested in this matter as it is prepared. That may be the big fight on this case, i.e. That's it. Then, as we have seen in our last days especially, after what was happening in the beginning, the matter is still deepening and changing. The conclusion that we took to heart at the beginning, i.e. We who disagree, and those who support the case said that it was nonsense - there are so many things that have now been presented as cognition fish in the case that still rests on the conclusion we left behind, i.e. this was a political office of uncertain size, and this was a administrative misbehaviour. Neither of these factors has been disturbed, but information has been presented from here and from wherever it comes to suggest that the matter is exactly that way. That's why we've been talking about that it's just not possible, that it's indecent and incompetent, driving things through that which has these aftereffects, or that's part of it, in the scapegoats we want more of the country. [[The president calls.]] That's the worst part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. That, in fact, is the case. asserts that it is merely a postponement of the administrative problem, with the implementation of a protocol at this time being implemented by Regulation No. 713/2009 and 714/2009 as they are fully available in a conventional way, but then the administrative committee will be delayed until the time when an electrical cable, a sea cable, will be placed from Iceland to another country to transport electricity. So, what is the senator's view of providing the problem, as it were, in this way? It hit me in the same way as when it seemed to be a great victory in the so - called Icesave 1, the first contract, to have been paid for seven years, although in the eighth year of death, the setting up of those cases. I think it is similar to this case, and it's supposed to delay this administrative problem all in order to complete the procedure in a traditional way in view of these anticipated omissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u93	Mr. President. It has never been possible to push a problem ahead. Never has it been good to have a decision - scared attitude. And it has never been good to be unable to face a problem. This may be all of the three points we've been pointing to here. The solution is, all it takes is the courage to use it. The solution is in the EEA Convention that is so strongly believed in, but those with the biggest dream of getting into the cold arms of the European Union do not seem to trust this agreement. That's what I find so strange. I have no doubt about this deal. It has been very good to us Icelanders for 25 years. There is no one who wants to overdo it or to sacrifice it in any way or to minimize its value. Of course, you must rely on the agreement, and you must rely on the developer - it is a mutual agreement, it is a contract between two parties, and one person is not more right than the other. If people don't trust this, if they don't trust the agreement that man has had in hand for 25 years and has worked, please, even though it's natural equipment for what we've been hauling in here by all kinds of stuff we might not have had to do, but all right, let's let it be so. But not to rely on this solution, which exists, just because some guys have come here and say: Well, the European Union may be a mess. Omissionary, is there a probability that the European Union or neighbors in the EEA would like to cancel this contract for us, which is of great benefit to us? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u94	A respectable president. In my final talk under the part: And then what? I was discussing the competitive advantage of Icelandic companies living in a difficult market where, of course, they are at odds with the country, the cost of resources, the distance from large markets, and so on, across the streets. The concern that I have because this competitive prelude, which is economical, will be a snare to human beings when it is taken by the companies of the country. At the same time, I have doubts that even if a doll is waved back, such countertight action is slow and bad. I'd like to mention the insurance fee in that context. But in this context, I would like to introduce a brief review of the Union of Garden Prayer. This is an excellent statement by allowing the president to say: ▪ The agreement of garden farmers violates the agreement of the above proposals for action and highlights the following points: ◯ - and there are some material involved, and I encourage those who listen to go into the General Assembly web and find the subheading under it. It's excellent, but I'm going to get on with the President's permission, and take out a point that matters in this context, the sixth point that says, by permission of the president: ▪ The garden gardening sector must be properly stocked with wood, and the electrical energy prices for graffiti are already too high. For the article, an increase in electrical prices would have serious consequences. All bickering takes into account the importance of the practical electrical value of the article below. Then, by permission of the president, the garden prayer continues in its review: If the economization of a cable were to result in significant increases in energy prices for the public and production companies in Iceland, including gardening. This would reduce the public's standard of living and reduce the competitiveness of domestic production so that many horticultural companies would be expected to shut down. The effects of other national products are considered to be unknown. This is the view that I think we are obliged to bear in mind the release of this case on the great General Assembly. I'm going to go on and enter two more paragraphs in this review of the European Garden Prayer, with the permission of a president: It should be minimally appropriate for decisions to link Iceland with the energy systems of other countries by means of sea cables would be available to the people of the nation's national law, and it is not enough for the General alone to make such a dramatic decision, even with a close vote. This I would like to mention, just to underline how ridiculous the compromise is offered here by many of the supporters of the third energy package, that it was just nothing, it doesn't matter, we should roll it through, preferably in a way, and there could be no comment at all. These are the real interests of an enterprise in the country and of its homes, and they are deeply concerned. Finally, I would like to quote the conclusion of the Union Garden Prayer, which says, by permission of the president: It is difficult to see why the Icelandic government puts emphasis on implementing a European regulation on energy issues expressed only in terms of a common energy market, i.e. does not really apply to Iceland unless it is linked to the electrical systems of another country. For this reason, there is no material evidence.◯ This is exactly the point. For this, material reasoning is lacking. It is just that the logical support we have been offered in this discussion by the cohesors of the third energy package lacks material evidence to link the country with the European energy market in the way proposed to the trial. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u95	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Ólason For the talk of this speaker, the three - month - old son of Olah, as it were, what then? You're absolutely right, and I couldn't agree more. A senator and the natural material review of the Federal Garden Prayer that there is no physical basis here. This is where enforcing the source of the energy package has run away from its work and declines to take a technical question about it. Yet, the argument that has been presented to the issue of crying contradictions, i.e. It is said that since electrical prices will not directly decrease them, they lack material reasoning. It has been claimed here that this is a complete zero, but the zero case is so important that it prefers all other issues that are absolutely national, despite the fact that zero may be able to wait if it is zero. I think it'll lead to itself. It has been claimed that this is absolutely lethal, since we have such a good advance, but at the same time it has been demonstrated by physical reasoning and by a reference to the European Economic Area that it is simply not to be expected. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with me in that what has been presented here is facing a situation of crying contradictions in the envies of the energy package. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. This is an interesting point and a question, and I think that there is no other way to say that the contradictions are all over in the advising of supporters of the third energy package. Let's just start with the obvious contradiction that there's nothing on the case, but it should all wait until the case is resolved so that it can be completed now and there's no surface or on any other surface. There's something that doesn't work in that approach. If this is not the case, it is not so that even the specific interests of the left green ones cannot be discussed in the great General Assembly. There's something strange about it. It's the price. I haven't quite figured out yet. paritaprevir In the morning's newspaper, Haraldsdóttir was simply telling jokes, trying to make fun, referring to the evidence that the induction of the third energy package would probably reduce electrical prices. All the evidence pointed to that. It puts this in all the other contexts when the colony is on its way out of Congress. paritaprevir But if Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir doesn't have anything to do with this, let's introduce it quickly, and preferably take the right of members of the council to express themselves in order to be able to get the subject over as soon as possible and to take up a discussion of sexual autonomy, which is probably the next part of the list. Although I only mention these two, I can introduce other conflicting points in my later answer. [[The president calls.]] There's plenty to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the answer. I don't think I alone understood the material content of those words. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir as if she were there to tap strings, this would be the kind of sense of humor that has often been called irony, because it has moved its case in a way that is to introduce the third energy package with a warning, just to prevent us from being connected to the internal market of the European energy network, to prevent us from being sold into the area that would result in rising electricity prices. Is it a mutual understanding? A member of Congress and newspaper articles and interviews that make jokes more than anything else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u98	A respectable president. If not, why not? Of course, a senator and vice president of the World Congress, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, seemed especially interested in taking us away, the skeptics of bringing in this package, the freedom of speech here at the high General Assembly, would be the wise thing to consider as some kind of joke attempt. I do not quickly remember a successful joke from what happened. A senator so I don't think she's instinctive, and I think we have to assume that she really means what she says and what she writes. For the first time, our freedom to speak, the skeptics, it is, of course, a preconceived position from the vice president of the II Parliament. Next, let us look at the wonder of the age she draws up in this magazine article to show that prices will be reduced. She's probably one of the senators in her dream country, completely out of touch with the reality of this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u99	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen have a right to address when referred to members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. The public speaker, a fine talk, comes to understand the importance of urgency. Councilmen do not make claims that cannot be resisted. This is especially true today. A member of the council we mentioned here, Brutísdi Haraldsdóttir, and I miss it, Mr. President, I've requested her to come here and discuss this with us, but we have not yet been made. This is especially indicated in her article that I quoted earlier, where she says that there is a lot of consumer protection in this energy package, and more members of the council have claimed it. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn's daughter has kept it steady and steady, as well. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, Senator of the Cradle, also claimed this. Then they stress that a buyer can change the energy trade. It is interesting to consider a report made by the ELA Lab. According to this report, there are relatively few homes that switch energy traders or sales brokers. By 2017, there were 370 homes that changed sales, with 140,000 homes in the country. [[Up to 370?]] 370 vs 140,000. Here's a statement that the senators claim this is such a legitimate protection and a lot of consumer protection, etc., it can't be used because there's very little difference. Nobody's changing power dealers. We just have it in black and white. It's worth a report. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator in charge of this, that members of Congress make such claims that are not at home in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u101	A respectable president. I have to admit that I had not thought of examining the number of homes that are actually making room for the present program of changing energy sales, that there are 370 of Sikhs 140,000 homes in the country. I must admit that there is not much demand for these major measures in consumer protection, which is being made up of this proposal as one of the key elements. It's kind of a well, it's bordering on the fact that you can in some context say that none of these sources are useful, they're so few. It's just unbelievable and interesting. This came to the attention of a senator. I was so surprised that I forgot the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u102	Well, she was just about to analyze...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u103	Yes, and then this presentation by the senators to present it as one key factor, one of the key concerns of the case, requiring this rapid and unpleasant induction of the principle, that it is consumer protection and transparency, the opportunity to switch nuclear energy dealers, which almost no one seems to take advantage of. What's "translation "? I don't know. More accounts from any other sources? I don't know. It might be nice if someone knows who might teach me about this very remarkable transparency. I'll give myself if the authority to switch power dealers is the big issue with consumer protection, I hope there's something busier that's facing the transparency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u104	Mr. President. These are amazing numbers. Here and there, councilmen stagnant to this point, increasing consumer protection, can be replaced. And it turns out that there are only a few homes in this country that take advantage of it because there is no profit, that's just a fact. We need to start taking this discussion in a way that allows us to do so. Councilmen can't say such things without having to answer for them with reason and information. As a member of the Central Party, we have been perfunctory in this regard. But I agree with what. A senator says that there is a lack of transparency in this, too. The electricity bills from the introduction of this energy package to the homes have become an amazing jungle. [[The president calls.]] This has become a few pages, and it is incomprehensible. [[The president calls.]] Everything called transparency is missing, e.g. Just in the power accounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'll solve this in my homebook by paying off the cursed calculus, if you don't see much, that's better for your soul. I think it'll be interesting and maybe this sort of thing that we should look at here for the next hour or two if it's any point of view, trying to figure out what it is in the evidence that is called a reason for this increased transparency and in what way it's supposed to improve the quality of companies and individuals and to protect their interests. I have to admit, I've just missed that point in the history of the highest. Minister at the beginning and then in the Commission opinion of the committee. [[The president calls.]] However, there is good reason to consider whether something is involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u106	Mr. President. Added to this the information on this subject. It's completely out of the question. Thank you. Ólason For the talk that he gave, Bergeth the Bergþór of Olah. I have had some concerns about the doubts that have been raised by the energy package in reviews. I've been very serious about this, e.g. I have to admit that I've been the only one who's worried about the vegan prayer organization, i.e. Gardens building. I think I just remembered that their financier put in a magazine interview a few weeks ago or months ago that a third energy package is likely to leave the garden dead. Then you ask: Is the value of electricity really going to decrease? As far as you're saying, you don't believe in anything. But I am deeply worried that this case is not a problem with gardening, as I said yesterday or the day before; it is a little mixed up, when there was a particular debate over the growth and survival of the garden, and it stood up out of all, understand, and, well, that men wanted the way of gardening to be the best. At the same time, however, people are driving against a council resolution that is likely to make it very difficult for humans to run. [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator has an opinion of how this is not going to work out?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. In this work environment, it is surprising that sound and image do not go together, and in this case it is. I endeavored to listen to the excerpt of the talks that were discussed with me on the improved garden status at the beginning of the day;--in the morning it is expected to be the word, exactly--there is just some crack between the senses of the position, that the same senators can keep the talks that were given, many each, and then are completely spontaneous about the introduction of this third energy package in spite of that. The comments of the Federal Garden Prayer. [[Take it up for the day before yesterday.]] And the fact is, I haven't thought yet, I keep this from memory, that more part of the narrative about the matter is negative. There are large companies, stakeholders, organizations, individuals, so it's all the fleas. The most part, I think I can say, is with great or very serious doubts about the matter. It is very strange to see the group, the members of the three members of the governments, and much more and less all of them were opposed not long ago, but it is not surprising that the three members of the United States are in agreement, to be expected, but the supporters of the governments who spoke in their manner of speaking, if that and supporting the case are very interesting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u108	Mr. President. Yes, the fact that humans should take this pole to the hill and for that reason alone, that is. of the consequences of gardening and other companies, I think that I should have concluded that this is not worth the effort, that it is better to think about, take time to think, and take more time to think about it, take a closer look at it, look for more information, and, as presented here in this discussion, to make a thorough assessment of its financial consequences for land and people to take it in the way that we do. But as we have seen during the discussion, since this is a pact proposal, costs are not needed. This is different from the law bill because costing is necessary there. However, in the Senate arrangement for this huge case, no expense is needed. But I was going to ask. A senator would agree with me that it would be better to take it easy on this matter, take time to pay attention, and make financial evaluations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u109	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think there's a lot of work to do... that we take one, two steps back... and give ourselves time to take a closer look at it. Well, that's just the way it is. Minister of Industrial Affairs, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún The Reykfjörð of Gylfadóttir, did not long ago declare that she could see the matter drawn to the Fall of 2019. When the minister of the seminary, which said one of the Ministers who deals with the third energy package, speaks in this way, it is quite obvious that there is no time crisis. The curtain is fell as this statement is made. There is no time out. What seems to have continued to drive the case is that the government groups thought it was the best way to finish. That's how it looks to me, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u110	V.E.G. President. This talk is a continuation of my last talk, where I began to review what I called Generalism. I concluded my final talk by reviewing ways that the government intends to take through the Generals to place these warnings in the law of electricity. What is involved in this procedure? An electronic law is being set, the same as it is recommended in a synonym every four years, for the structure of the transport system, and for this particular government policy should be specifically determined whether a cable is laid or not. Thus, the new 6 mg, with simplicity, can be said to be. Count 9. Electrical layers repeat what is already 39 C.E. a Same track. It may further emphasize that the decision for sea cables in Iceland depends on the General Assembly's interpretation of the policy of building a transport system set every four years. Then you might argue that this change in law is really unnecessary because of loss of purpose. These are my discussions here and my first, and they are based on a minority opinion of the employment committee, which has to do with the laws being discussed here. If the aim is to ensure that the General Assembly and legislatorship of the decision on whether to connect the Icelandic electrical power system to the energy systems of other countries, then the content of the Parliamentary arrangement is to be set in law and at the same time ensure that both parties of the legislators, i.e. The Allied Parliament and President of Iceland will come to the decision, especially where public interests are now being guided, as the law says. What may be most serious about this is that it is difficult to see that, as I have considered in my previous speeches, it is difficult to see that by the EEA Convention it is possible or permitted to implement a national directive. I've done a fairly detailed review of that in my previous talks about the European Economic Convention, that it is very complicated. It is actually assumed that this is not done but that induction is carried out in a way that has already been made up of the EEA joint committee. As a result, it should be noted that what the Icelandic government intends to do in this case is introduce the third energy package and then put in the Senate resolution of the final authority of the World Council for the Mediterranean cord. In this context, Iceland cannot be viewed as being different from a national commitment to implementing a Regulation, including 713/2009 with its subsections and have been repeatedly listed here, in the national rights end of this, is intended to implement the package in accordance with the decision of the joint EEA committee, as per Article 7. The deal. Then we find that alone seems to be a two-way option if the government and lawgiver's purpose is to ensure Iceland's interest by avoiding a violation of the Constitution and national power, either to skip the induction of this information through its regulations, to ensure that the overnational authority, ACER, does not reach Iceland and remove the connection to Directive 72/2009 with Regulation 713/2009 and 714/2009, or instead of rejecting the third energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u111	Mr. President. We have discussed some of these matters with regard to the coming events or the need for warnings in this matter. I want to pray. A senator to review with me just what he thinks is the reason why the government in this case doesn't want, or doesn't want, or doesn't want to, or doesn't want to go the easy way to get legal warnings, i.e. to handle this matter to the joint EEA committee and receive notice from the EU, which works, a clear and undisputed warning. Has a what? A senator's explanation of why the government has not done this? Forewords yet to be placed in the Regulation, forewords placed in general words in a paper, forewords based on two fine men either meeting over a sandwich and soda or a cup of coffee and wine or talking in telephones and sharing understanding of a particular subject can hardly be considered a legal arrangement. Therefore, I reiterate that question to the question. The senator's opinion is that the reason or reason why the government groups do not want to do so is that it is an exclusive way. to redirect the case to the joint committee and to get serious notice from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's father is a great man for his counter-sponsored response. There is hope that people will wonder how this is going to be the case if the government's purpose is the one I described in the talk, to put in advance laws that should be considered. To be honest, I'm beginning to agree because there is no shortage of legalized persons, either in this council hall, on a minister's staff, or in the councilhouse where there is a moderate work, not just going to be a full-scale draft operation. Isn't that just the big deal? It's just that the tent's gone, isn't it? Is that not what we are about to do? If it were a government's real intention to impose some kind of restriction, it would certainly be the way to comply with law No. 2/1993, the European Economic Convention, particularly 102. gr. there, with reference to 109th, 97th par. etc. All the articles I've considered quite detailed points that this is done in full agreement and that the EEA is speaking in one voice, i.e. that there are not such warnings that the defense of one State is not compatible with another country in the European Economic Area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u113	Mr. President. Somehow, I feel that way. A senator may not crystallize what was found in the opinion of several jurists, according to this method, i.e. This tour is at the top of the road. Minister and government, accompanied by legal uncertainty. We've discussed this term here in these discussions, and that's why I have to ask why too. A senator whether he feels that this matter is not to be approved at the council when they know that this payment is legal or legal insecurity. The question must be, What is it that runs men on this uncertainty tour with the interests of the country and the nation of the population? Why do people take an adventure trip with the beach egg? What is involved in this? What need is there for this? What's the rush? Why should this be done? These are some questions I'd like to throw towards it. Senator. As mentioned in our discussions, the populars we've been here seem to be born on this matter every day. There seems to be new information based on more than just going into the matter, which makes it even more necessary to settle this matter in some way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u114	Mr. President. There's been a fairly detailed review of the legal uncertainty involved. It means that if we fully produce the package, it may include a violation of the Constitution because the Icelandic Constitution simply does not home such an introduction, it does not allow us to do what is involved, handing over authority to the extent of its analysis. Hv. A senator talked about the beach, and I think we're just going to talk about the beach when we talk about the energy resources of our Iceland, just like other resources, and then I'm going to have to mention it here one more time when we've been in that situation before, such as our fishery, fishing and processing, put our ringleaders, who were then on the World Council, into the G-Gate 1s XII. An Annex to the EEA Convention that it would be permitted to continue using seas that are in force in the signing of the Treaty on Foreign Transboundary rights and/or possession rights of non-EU Member States in the field of fishing and fishing, i.e. Because it was an enormous and important interest for us Icelanders for whom we have fought in wars, we put it in particular into the European Economic Area Convention, and there has never been any doubt that this addition would hold. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker, who was very well informed. It's clear to me. A senator has made a good choice in this matter, especially in the delinquency of custody, which is a fundamental question in all this discussion. It was interesting to observe a Kast Light Show in which the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee was involved in the administration of power. In this regard, it is interesting to consider the opinions of Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Már and Stefánsson, who has often been mentioned here, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ In view of the above, it is difficult to view the expansive office of the State as being equal to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 is well defined and defined. It seems rather necessary to view ESA authority as equivalent to 8. The Regulation would be vague and subject to interpretation of the above - mentioned terms. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator: Is that not serious if you have infallible authority and cannot predict where it ends? It is vague and undefined, impossible to see where it ends. Hv. A senator is well - versed in this, so I ask: Is this not a major concern? Senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u116	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson is very grateful for his counter-sponsored spirit. Yes, our Constitution of Iceland is designed so that it does not directly authorize to hand over such authority. As noted in their report, it is silent on this authority, and it should be viewed as a matter of conflicting with the constitution of power. This is what has been described by the staff of the State Department in private conversation with the warnings I covered in my speech, or talks, as being intended to put under leaks in the administrative problems of inoculation without breaking the constitution. It's just gonna be a tad, you know, that the logic that's being held by water is what's going to be all over the world. It is true that if you have undefined power, there is no firm grip on where it begins and where it ends. They go into it exactly, the Buddies, in their opinion that this power is not clearly defined, i.e. It may be estimated that this will go beyond the exact words provided in the regulations provided.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of this fine diagnosis. This is exactly where we come to the core of the issue, that the government is to choose the choice of an option that is very slim and not the best option at all. The best option is to handle the case for the joint EEA committee as it has been named here, get it cut off, and obtain a permanent release. This is a great risk that no one knows exactly how to end. That's exactly what I liked about it. A senator explained this. You wonder why governments are willing to take this risk. There is something that needs to be answered because the consequences can be severe if it becomes evident that humans are missing out, that is not part of it, and that we are looking forward to a career that is very serious. You wonder why governments are willing to take this risk and take a course that is not the best. I don't think that's been clear enough. Yes, it's a matter of fear that the EEA deal can be upset if it becomes a legal way of wishing that the case will be addressed to a committee that has the job of solving such a project. [[The president calls.]] This raises many questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u118	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. Fear propaganda has been reported. This has been the worse way, because the one who is legally simple and predictable causes political agitation. The statement has been made in the public assembly that if we choose to take a course that is clearly the best at reading the European Economic Convention, we will not be taking any of the points off the European Union. It's a transpositional rhythm or theme through the whole contract to make up. There is no reason to believe that if there is an opinion or anything that can cause it to dominate the EU Member States or between the European Economic Area and the European Union, everything is done and all efforts to make peace are sought. There is no law that they will use judicial action, that they will be disfellowshipped, received less rights within it, or any other creation, as I have called for government officials who have held this issue, including that. A senator, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Álaggi Áslaug Arna, to inform in what political confusion should be involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u119	Mr. President. I just want to focus on the actual relationship between the induction of a three energy package, the European Union Directive, which we're conducting here and the general public. With a pack of energy, we will be required by the Icelanders to adopt the EU's electronic market, although this does not fit the Icelandic environment, such as. The left green stressed in its discussion when a pack of energy was introduced, and it was a rich left - green focus that it did not work for the average Icelandic situation. Hence, it is natural to be surprised that this same group, these same politicians, is the greatest. President, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and others are now going to run this case through. It's just surprising, Mr. President, if you don't mind me saying it like that. However, this way, to introduce it into an environment that is not suitable, is very likely to cause instability in terms of prices, even the risk of energy shortages and higher averages, when various factors are subject to electricity. Of course, this brings about national interest. If we look into it further, the point is that governments must not interfere with how the flow of energy comes into being when a translucency is introduced. Inland companies are caught in a direct competition for electricity with a company in the European Union because energy will be sold to those who offer the highest price. It's just the law of supply and demand. So we are watching an Icelandic industry and an Icelandic company have to compete with a European company for electricity. We all see where that can lead us. Then governments really have no resources to try to control them. It is, in fact, such a scale corruption game, and it is a huge risk, in my opinion, to trust that the prohibition against having a cable placed on the head of European rights will be followed by a great amount of pressure from these stakeholders who want to sell energy and are about to produce, activation projects, setting up on windmill gardens, etc. There will be a lot of pressure from their partners not to stop a cable from being laid. So there are so many uncertainty factors in this. With this energy package, we are taking a very high risk for public survival. I think that's pretty clear. However, this is continued, as it were, with the argument that energy management is required to achieve, for example. in the climate. It is natural to think primarily about Europe because they have a great need for this clean energy that we have. I think the European Union places such emphasis on this because it is convenient for them. This brings us to the very point where we and the general public in Iceland will be in second place in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. Of course, it is good for the senator to be optimistic and to believe that Iceland's interests will be secondary in this comparison. However, there might be an additional perspective between the European Union's interests and ours so that we could leak something down the list. What attracted my attention to the senator's speech, and I would like to introduce it, these speculations about access to cleaner energy and its importance to the lasting, renewable energy we have so much in Iceland. It has been said that we are in some sort of training camp in order to experience the fact that we are using nuclear and coal for various tasks that require electricity in connection with what is sometimes called constant letters, which say source certificates, that electrical producers can turn away to more pollution of the electrical plants abroad. Counts 'em out. Birgir Is Þórarinsson saying that there is some way to describe this relationship, which, as I say, has sometimes been described as training camps in adapting to using energy that is more polluted than what we are actually using? That's a lot of weird hits. Does the senator think this is an actual description of what lies ahead in this common European market when people are buying the energy from a pot where nuclear energy, coal, and green energy are in a single product? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator and his exact diagnosis of this very interesting. I think the European Union knows exactly what it is doing in these areas. They need clean energy. We see the energy exchange due to the climate change and the serious situation in that category, and countries like the European Union are trying to secure themselves in the future so that they can cope with that crisis. This involves reducing the use of fossil fuels. Since such use is a major influence on climate, pollutant nitrogen, etc., as well as cognition. A senator correctly mentioned in that regard, looking into Iceland. I've mentioned here that it has been drawn up that from this point on, a cable will be laid. There are maps. We've been doing a lot of groundwork. The Icelandic government has done a lot of groundwork, and international and foreign companies have been involved in this. We see that a string has been drawn from Iceland to Britain and then on the continent of Europe. This is all labeled in Brussels and, of course, done with the approval of the Icelandic government, which shows that we are seen with this pure energy. It is and becomes the most valuable energy for the future. That's why these people, investors, are considering that energy production in Iceland, wind power gardens, etc. They know that these are valuable things. That is why it is very important for them not to be stopped by the possibility that a sea cable will be laid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's offer for the answer. He also came along in his response to a building point, or, to industrial companies, I understood it so that it was primarily a business he had in mind. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator whether he is concerned about e.g. the area he knows best on Smokejanes, whether there is cause for concern. Now, in part, as far as the best knowledge is concerned, the delivery or transport systems on the nipp are concerned with delivering the remaining energy and, of course, up to plans to improve and improve it. Has a what? A senator is concerned that companies in his home area might find themselves in trouble as a competitive premium, which has been a long time-growing, pulled by companies, kept in mind that there are many factors in company management in Iceland which are actually unfavourable; high tax recovery, distance from foreign markets, animal resources, that say imports on raw materials, and so on the streets? Has a what? A senator's concern is that it might seriously affect some company?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u123	Mr. President. Without a doubt, the effect this will have on future business interests is concern. We need to look to Norway in that regard, and the Norwegian report shows that industry in the natural world is very much below economic prices, such as. It's just paper industry and metal industry. They are concerned that as many as 12,000 jobs in Norway are lost in the region, and the side effect is up to 30,000 additional jobs, so this joint energy network in Europe is therefore a major threat to industry in Norway. We expect to be watching the same situation in Iceland, that this competition for energy can get these companies to the full, that they will not be able to handle the energy prices they receive because others offer the energy better and that they will be sold out of a country that is naturally of great concern. The investors who are very interested in working in energy are naturally thinking of maximizing their profits and profits. These are not involved in some kind of charity when it comes to business in the country. I think it's perfectly clear. I also think we need to bear in mind national work, for example. In the aluminium industry, in Eastern Europe, that when negotiations expire, electrical agreements, to that company, what guarantee do we have that the company does not stop working when it does not get the energy prices they think is acceptable? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So there is much to be done to protect yourself from these and many concerns.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u124	Mr. President. I found this very interesting talk to me. Senator. Thank you so much for her. It's like this speech that we've been talking here at times in the hall, and then what? Or what's next? And I'm sure we have an example to protect ourselves because that seems to be the case in Norway, where there is a greater competition for energy and prices, that the company of industrial drivers there has complained very much and resented the growing cost of electrical prices. I don't think there's enough emphasis on this point in preparing the case, i.e. They have said, as shown in an unscrupulous article in the Morning Press, that this agreement will reduce energy prices, which I personally believe is not an option. And you, especially, aim at the experiences we already have from using two energy packages before. Therefore, you must first ask: has been put in place enough work to take note of the impact that the energy package will have, first of all, for the homes of the country, secondly for small industrial companies and third for energy - consuming activities, such as, for example. the garden prayer's function? According to the senator's opinion, there has been plenty of work to be done on this, i.e. to try to imagine the effect this induction will have? I want to know how the senator feels about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. His thoughts and concerns are very important. It seems that we Icelanders are with us, at least. for governments, that it is, in effect, forethought to investigate the effects of government action and in this case of induction. We know it from the meat business. There was virtually no analysis when we arrived specifically at the European Union's customs agreement on agricultural products. There was no scientific analysis on the part of the government to what would be the effect on the Icelandic agriculture that he has. But there must be a minimum demand for governments to ensure that a thorough analysis of the effects on industry such as agriculture is made. The same is true of this matter. Of course, there are precise effects of this energy package on the homes of the country, companies and food producers, such as gardening and energy dependent companies. All of this goes before the committee. It is not enough to get some interest organization at a meeting that lasts half an hour on the committee and allows it to succeed. You will need to perform systematic tests on how this may affect you. [[The president calls.]] That's why. A senator is highly justified in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u126	Mr. President. As a result, it has been reported in the reviews received by a foreign relations committee, e.g. From the International Standards Organizations, from the Union of Garden Prayer and ASI, to the fear or concern of people over the effects of this induction. That's why you think it's very critical, we shouldn't say it politely, that there's no assessment of the consequences of paying the bill of this induction, which is primarily less business and home in the country. And that in itself is the lack of accurate understanding. Well, maybe. A senator would agree with me that just this point is reason enough to take this matter aside, postpone it until autumn, cover these points better, i.e. influence the victims of the case and find out for sure how this will affect them? Because if this increases energy prices to both enterprises and families, it will in itself also contribute to inflation, because the increase in energy prices will go into prices, it will increase insurance, etc. The government draws its feet by throwing the mortgage out of the insurance bills, etc. Is it not the ultimate reason to put this matter aside for this reason alone?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think he's definitely right that there's a good reason to put the matter off until the fall and try to get all the information that is necessary. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir told the news yesterday that all the questions have been answered to the committee and to the Committee, and here are the middle-class members just holding up. This is usually an entirely unscrupulous argument, Mr. President, to say this in this way because many questions remain unsettled. Like what? A senator rightly mentioned, of course, the labor movement is concerned about this matter. She has stated in a special review that she is deeply concerned about the matter. This has to do with the interests of the households and the labor movement. This could affect collective agreements if it is found that electricity will rise considerably, which will be done when a cable is laid. But it doesn't even have to, because the energy package suggests it and makes it necessary to increase the monitoring costs for energy production by one 45% and it has been declared. It is stated in the corporate reviews of the committee, that it will go right into the prices. There's nothing to hide it from the public. It stands in black under headings that these increases will go directly into the prices and raise indexes on the homes' loans, etc. That's absolutely right next to what's going on. A senator must pause. [[The president calls.]] It must be handled in a way that provides information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u128	Mr. President. As I meditated on the subject of my speech, it was a matter of choice, one on the other, to review the effect that the third energy package could have in the future on the exchange of land activation. I'm sure this point will take the lead in speaking. But there is something else I would like to mention, especially now, in view of the discussion that has taken place here tonight and night, i.e. The presentation of this matter, especially with the public and other economics or stakeholders, e.g. Enterprises, gardening buildings, etc. Because of what? paritaprevir Þórarinsson quoted the words of the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee that all questions had been answered, yet the person listed here has raised some questions that have not been answered. The questions signed were asked by the State Department's cost due to the induction of a pack of three energy. As we all know, the State Department of State had a foot and foothold flying here at the home of a foreign expert specialist, Iceland friend who was sent here to Iceland to scare us with the European Union. In other words, I have asked what cost this package has been introduced by local, national, international, international, international, how that cost is divided, and then by the general covering cost. As everybody knows, it's the highest. Minister of state travel somewhat around the country to introduce this matter. But he's been studying the matter almost exclusively and only, if I know it correctly, before the insides and indignities. In itself, it is not good to throw away anger at the highest level. A minister was presenting an energy package of three or the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself, in light of the state within the category of Independence. We don't know about that. That is why I felt that it was inevitable to ask what, for example, to ask a question. This foreign minister's publicity tour of the country, to present the energy package, has cost. We need to know all the details of this matter. Therefore, it is necessary to find out, apart from the fact that the answer to the inquiry has been made to provide some information on how that presentation was conducted. We've been saying here, based on feeling and other things, that a presentation to the public has been completely lacking. We can especially see what the common people know about this subject. Of course, it is understandable that people who are not involved, if I can put it that way, do not fully understand what it is and what it is about. I have to say, there have also been reports of some aggressors. Parliaments have naturally made such statements on the subject that it is very clear that people there have not fully studied the matter and, in some cases, had little to do with it. It is a habit to introduce a case of this magnitude without the people who pay the bill, and this, if I can put it that way, understand what it is, what the point is, and it is fully presented. Therefore, we must insist, and it is likely to become evident when I receive these questions from the minister of state, hopefully we will get a clearer picture of how this matter has been presented to the public and then likely even a basis for us to ask for more presentation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u129	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's great for his speech, which was very good because she's getting something into it. Why, on the other hand, is all this distrust that we Middle Class have been taught to cause, more than anyone else? But it also drew my attention that the minister of foreign affairs, which is a prime example in the southwest corner, spent considerable time travelling inside the country to learn about this package of energy, and especially in particular, was meeting their party brothers, partyed independents, who are hurt by the injury that those who are in the party business and who are partyed are often people who are very aware of national talk, and who have even very strong political views, and as a result are often more involved in such matters. It is not as if it is being introduced to people who have no knowledge or limited knowledge but who are interested in getting a presentation if offered. Is it not, then, that this matter may not have been deliberately introduced to the common people in view of how large and important it is to Icelandic citizens?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u130	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A senator, that's the case, especially because it was earlier tonight that 63% of those who take sides with this energy package are against him. I think I'm right about it. I think we missed it. The head of the State Department, it will only correct me, the claim, or the opinion that as people have studied this package more, they will be much better pleased with him. I think I heard something like that. Then you must ask: Is it not helpful for governments and politicians to present this matter to the public in order to get a more positive public view of the matter if it is so that those who know more about it than others are more positive about it? And when you hear things like that, that those who have studied the matter think better. Then you turn the issue around and say: " Wait, and who is to blame if people know nothing about it? ' Although there is a natural level of information and even a level of entertainment in the chapters, it cannot be expected to follow up, as has been the case in this series. But the next thing you know, those who have observed it have gained more knowledge of the matter. This is what I say in earnest because we have been natural to get to know the matter better by carefully reviewing it here in the hall. And why is it not important to present the matter with a measure of respect to the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have to say, these numbers are pretty striking, especially in view of following the categories that are provided by this package, if we look at a vote, are considerably more than that, this 63%. It's like a former senator, Ögmundur Jónasson, said that this is clearly a case that runs contrary to parties and groups of political views. This 63% number attracts attention, but it also attracts 70% of the number, 70% of the affected population. Foreign Directors objected to the introduction of the package, as he did to the public. You have to ask yourself, " Why, those who claimed to have studied the package were more positive? ' But what data have people had to study the package very carefully? Has the package been introduced to people and has it been introduced to people in the way we have experienced, the presentation of those who are following the package here at the General Assembly? Well, we've made a comment to that presentation. Has that been a very good introduction? Has it been deep or has there been evidence that we can say that sod is wrong? I'd like to ask you what. A senator in what he believes is that this presentation of those who expressed themselves in this survey was hiding and whether it was partly on the part of public parties?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u132	Mr. President. I have to say, what? A senator, that I allow myself to doubt it, and this I also say because it has been revealed, or in this discussion, contrary to what others have claimed, we say: This matter is complicated. Taking a stand on the matter is complicated. This may be most evident in the lack of agreement between the jurists in Iceland. They do not agree on the growth of this matter. They do not agree with its effect. They don't agree on administrative influences, etc. And then you say, " If the nation's leading experts don't agree, what then? ' Obviously, politicians do not agree with one another and make very conflicting arguments; there are not very many arguments that have come from the study of those who believe in this package; rather, it has been the most debate about those who disagree with them, not as to the case itself. Yet, political groups still have major differences. Then, according to the information we've received -- we know natural about the presentation presented here tonight, we know that in almost every political group, including party groups, opposition to this package is greater than a positive one, and then we still come to the question: Why is the government trampling it through a record speed, in shock, and in opposition to the nation? If it were a market campaign, it would be the worst failure you'd ever seen. Right?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. Of course, it is interesting to see and experience at the most. The Secretary of State has certainly had a meeting with the European Union's commissary of energy and, as a result, published a report on the website of the State Department of State for the alleged understanding that was supposed to be one of the warnings made by the two conferences, it seems at least as much as the Independence Party does - it's both the Ministers who represent the issues that create the so-called third energy package, in these two advisers, find it so that more time and energy have gone to convince their own country that this is now letting go of all angles than energy in ensuring that all the cautions in the case were properly guarded and that the human rights of the European Convention will send us back to the European Commission. How does it look to--Welcome to the area, gentlemen--what? A senator, that such emphasis was placed on an inner presentation instead of discussing matters with a representative of the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u134	Mr. President. It's a straight question. A senator set me up, and I thank her. I have a feeling that the draught of the two Ministers who present this matter, largely, became convinced of their council. This has been the case with certain members of the Independence Party, one after another, who said, "I was completely opposed to this matter, but now I am saved." We don't know how it went, but the government leaders seem to have had a lot of energy and a lot of time, if I just say it in Icelandic, putting a team together so it would work out. When all this energy is gone into just beating the people together, so it's working on the rhythms, getting in between its introductory and internal confidants here and where across the country, there may be no power left to care for the public in the country, not even the general party members of the country. This may not be true of the left green we've had with wood and a phrase in the council because they want the market of energy sources or the forward party of taste pants and new shoes, and with sly hair tops, belts, and bracelets. All of this does not appear to be enough, but for e.g. The parties because a greater part of his party seems to be opposed to these packages. As I say, great energy has gone into just the country, just to keep the government in its own hands. [[The president calls.]] There's not much energy left in everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the answer. It takes time and effort to herd wildcats, as the former prime minister described it in the 2009 /2013 government. It is far removed from me that I would like to compare that cat's acquiesce to what is taking place in the administrations today and that I would never describe the Party of Independence in that way. The fact that humans do not behave in this way is a great experience and a source of discipline. But just that is why it is so interesting how the language developed within the door from the fact that a large group of members of the council was completely out of the question and therefore felt a prelude to the seemingly superior group, wrote the same article with a few minor changes, but in the same material, it seemed to be the same article, which seemed to have the role of being a limp when it came to reason with our own backland to point, or to hang on the right hand, and to take action. I haven't had the impression that there's a lot of conviction, at least. I'm not a member of the Independence Party, because it's the right thing to do. On the other hand, people let it pass, that's the way it works. But I wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson on one. He is familiar with the standards of the advance advance advance in the advance, and I have found that such an interesting reversal of that body of council in this case has taken place since being in opposition to being totally rocked. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u136	V.E.G. President. What an interesting explanation! So I'd finish the Independence Party first, being an outsider, and not a knowledgeer, always reminded of the efforts of the senators who were quite contrary to the fact that they were tough with me in some way before and after the ad for Flossos spades, men were rather dull and indistinguishable before they tried some new shampoo that ran out, and then the men of the city would walk along. It reminded me a little bit of that. As far as the enterprise seems to me, and not only has it seemed to me, I have conviction that the current leadership of the party is not consistent, nor is there great ideals in the books, nor is there great conviction. The description I used here, last night, I think, made one bit of anger. The senator of the party to anger, where I said the party was and in this case was like a dog chasing his tail. I don't think I have a better description. I'm also saying this in advance that the dog seems to have stopped at some particular place, but there's not a vote on this case that we don't know if it's gonna happen to change. But in itself there may have been two things that changed, and let's note that it's also only been working in the council, that it changed with two of the pieces published by the chairman of the Party, since these things had not been talked to the people well enough - they haven't been changed yet - and this was supposed to be some warning, and some have certainly thought, such as the backyard, that something had to be done. So they just died, and they said, "Yeah, we're just doing this. [[The president calls.]] This describes the existence of the class at present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u137	A respectable president. I'm going to continue with speeches that I'm going to define under the category, and then what? i.e. how the induction of the third energy package is affected right now during the induction process and then again after the translucency has been laid. I'd like to draw attention to the viewpoints and comments of the national bakery. Now I'm actually going through the focus of the market market concern of price development and market situation as far as conditions are concerned. A baker's national relationship. The Foreign Affairs Committee contains detailed reviews, bilingual views, and a longer report that is very interesting to read through. No one needs to question the concern of these stakeholders by their country's qualifications. By permission of the President, I will briefly quote certain points in the review that will begin to describe the effect of the 2003 Reunion of Electrical Laws. By permission of the President, says: ▪ When changing energy law, the contracts were one-sided, one-sided, one-sided, - i.e. agreements on less-efficient electricity during periods of stress that had been enjoyed by bakery - ◯ This increased the electricity prices by up to 50% and reduced competitiveness as the increase inevitably increased prices. The decision to change power prices was contrary to the government's will at that time, to reduce food prices and to encourage energy dealers to match their wishes to seek ways to reduce energy prices. The last loss of government policies is that this change through the market of Icelandic energy markets has led to lower electrical prices. In this context, an increase between 2015 and2016 can be demonstrated by 5◯8%. The union of the bakers continues, with the permission of the president: ▪ The third energy package is the main target of transport and sale of electricity between countries. It has been suggested that by the implementation of the directive it will have little or no effect in this country where Iceland has an isolated non-European electricity system. The isolation is no guarantee that Iceland will not be connected to the future internal energy market by fixing a cable. It is clear that by means of sea cables, a new market law would be introduced that would significantly increase electricity prices. In this context, it is important to note that the results of an industrial minister's work group from 2016, which was assigned to identify the national impact of sea cable repair, included that by fixing a sea cable, electricity prices in Iceland would rise considerably. The report reports that more than half of the cost increase would be carried out by groups that are the largest non - home electricity users and major industry. Industrial electricity prices, other than industry, would, according to calculations, increase by 50 percent. It's about that in companies that use high electricity. A baker's union ends with the President's permission of his resignation: A baker's Long Union believes that the induction of the third energy package will lead to an increase in electricity prices and, therefore, weakens the competitive status of bakers as well as Icelandic industry. Thus, the national union of the bakers strongly opposes the introduction of a third energy package in Iceland. As you can see from me, I like the way I like things and I care for the bakery's interests, and I know that more people do it in here. I think we must listen with such reasonable reasonableness to class and group that have great interest in this matter. The national relationship between the bakers is very clear on the dangers they consider to be a ghost over their own competitive position at the market they work at.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. I like it. A senator enters very important points here. We're talking about the working class, reviews from this ordinary Icelander, i.e. those who work and those who run small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the burden of Iceland's economy, these parties. Here, earlier this morning, we kept what we were thinking. A member of the United States gave a talk that focused on the comments of the Parking Guarantee Society. I come from an area called a hot area that has quite a warmth. I talked to a gardener who uses a description in his bridal work, but he has very little in comparison with others because of what he grows. So he pays homeboy because he's not a big user enough. In his case, the electricity is about 40% of the total cost of manufacturing. But those who are larger users and are using descriptions very much are paying, I understand, about 20% of the power production cost, i.e. for energy, distribution and transport. I want to throw it to the ground. A senator's opinion is, as I know he knows well about the business environment, that this is a fairly high rate of costs and whether it can be added to the business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u139	A respectable president. It is not likely that companies involved in a business enterprise, looking for a budget of between 20 and40% of total budgets to increase by up to half, when such a change in the management environment occurs. It's likely that it will go a long way by cutting off a lot of people, I would think. It is not up to you to calm down on the price of a bonus, as is the case. Not all who are involved in a business venture are like the members of the Parliament, in connection with a tax system, and in a decision there, i.e. that when things are missing, people only go to raise the taxes. This is not how it works in the general business of an enterprise. When you have an e-mail that is, as I say, 203/40% of your total fees, and see a substantial rise, it's just a hit on the road that's very important. You shouldn't take it out of some lightness, discuss it, and just say: In this package there's nothing, it doesn't affect anything. This will probably just lower the electrical price, say the jokers. Of course, this is not an acceptable discussion. I think that person as well as I do. paritaprevir Þorvaldsson Thorddsson refers to this, which finds himself in the position of bringing about about 40% of its expenses related to the burning industry for electricity purchases, must be very troubled by the induction that is imminent and the subsequent changes in the management environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This leads to thinking about what is derived from this. If this makes it work, i.e. The increase in electricity prices, the failure of companies in this business, whether by bakers who stop producing bread or gardeners who stop cultivating vegetables, is the result that we still need to get the product. Is the answer, as the Europeans believe, that it is best to import, and those who cannot make this here must just die? We're just moving it out of Europe where the market is. What effect does such a process have on carbon tracks, and where is it to obtain currency for such things? This leads to the idea that people just don't see the overall context of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. Sadly, this is often the cold fact that we face. When men are linking our physical world to the environmental discussion, it does not combine sound and image. If the national manufacturers crash into the changed business environment, the import will be increased by its own carbon track and by all its components. Now I remind myself of what I said here earlier this morning that an organization such as Land Protection didn't even send a review of a third energy package and no organization similar design, so I don't think that men are just thinking this on any level of the case, so to speak, that this is a secondary effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I just want to come into these articles for a second. The members of the Independence Party have been writing, yesterday and today. Today, an article published in the News magazine by Vilhjálmur Árnason, a member of the Independence Party, continues on course and course. paritaprevir In an article in the Morning newspaper yesterday, the Br ratherus Haraldsdóttir did so much good in bringing in this energy package because it contains such a lot of consumer protection. In an article, why not? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason says, he's here on the energy package, with the permission of the President: His movements lead to an increase in consumer protection and to an increase in competition and equality, which at all contributes to a lower price. It is almost correct in the same sentence as in an article. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir's in the Morning Press last night. Now, earlier in this discussion, I have related information from the EFLU Lab of its contents about 370 homes, which is the consumer protection, the lower price of - 2017. Of 140,000 homes, 370 have changed sales, Mr. President. In other words, there are 0.3% of homes in the country that use the so - called consumer protection that is so abundant in this energy package as such. Senators. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is this not beginning to be an reprehensible presentation by members of the Independence Party and a misleading statement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Yeah, I think they're painting a picture that isn't real, considering the points. I snuck into the side room and picked up the Senate resolution as it is available. I did not look through the committee's opinion, but as far as support is concerned, the evidence has risen from its supporters that there is so much consumer protection and so much transparency resulting from the induction that there is no need to worry about what remains, for something of no importance. The article was 17 pages, and I just ran through subheadings. My analysis of this could not become more detailed during the short period of time. A senator opposed me. I don't seem to have one subheading - now enough of them on these 15◯17 pages - include the words "transluce" or "adversive protection," none of them. There is, therefore, little evidence to indicate the ultimate degree. The minister of foreign affairs, however, has reason to have some viewpoints that turned toward transparency and consumer protection in the foregrounds of the data. I'll certainly be looking at this, I didn't think about this point till then. A senator answered. So this must be with them in advance that I will read myself through the entire text of the report again. During a quick review, there appears to have been little transparency and consumer protection at the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer to that question is very interesting to a member of the council and to believe that the transparency and consumer protection are not mentioned in the Senate resolution. On the other hand, hold on. Parliaments in the air like this is an enormously important factor in all of this, in the induction of this energy package. The point is, here's two of us. The members of the Independence Party present facts - and, indeed, more members, I took note that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Álga Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, held this up, both in the media and on the committee - is so rich that energy dealers can be replaced. Then we see that there are 0.3% of homes in the country that uses this resource, which means that there is no benefit in changing energy sales. I think people need to realize that when they're arguing, they need to be honest and critical of others along the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u145	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u146	A respectable president. To make up for all running over in time, I'll speak a little shorter in this counter. In another passage, which was fast again read out here in the hall while the dog. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's troops were opposed, and I found no closer to finding specific information about transparency or consumer protection in a proposal for a hearing presented in this case by the secretary of State. This is what I think it is necessary for us to try to figure out, whether these views on transparency and consumer protection were discovered at the same time the members of the board were looking for warnings in all sides of the great paniki for over two days. I'm not gonna have any more words on this for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his fine speech, the three - month - long Bergþór of Ólason is here. He was talking about reviews, referring to the comments of the Bookkeeper's National Association. I'm going to direct my question to him about that review. A few days ago, I ran through these envelopes and got involved with some of them, but not all of them. I'm not going to state the position of each speaker. The reviews can be divided into four extreme categories. The majority of individuals are negative, very negative, some of them. Then there are electrically linked enterprises, many of which are public but not all. They are divided into two groups, but the public electricity companies are usually rather positive. Then we can say that there are often government agencies; yet, quite many and most of them are positive about what we are discussing here. Finally, there are several societies, and they pay a great deal of attention to this, a great deal. I'm pointing that question to why. A senator, e.g. About the national union of the bakers, whether he sees any tendency in these comments, and then for more than the national union of a baker.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for answering. I don't think it's possible to answer yes, that the trend in the reviews is that -- now I'm going to go out on the thin ice because I haven't counted this -- that real economy companies are concerned more than part of it, I think I'm going to let me say, those who don't have institutions. The rural communities are very skeptical, and I think it's because of the presence of these intermediate and small enterprises which are all over the countryside and that are the core of the rural society. Then there's that link between the individuals and the communities again. I think that's the explanation. Those who envision a change in themselves are concerned about this induction. They may be rather those who do not engage in direct operations, since these are prominent tax pay forces that are positive. I'm sure my analysis is quite simplified, but I think the broad lines are pretty much that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. When you read about the locals' reviews - which are at least Five, possibly more - they want to be convinced that there is no room for power through the induction of the energy package. They pay a warning and assume that this will lead to an increase in electricity prices. There are several rural areas that think so and believe that the price for energy is increased, that point to the importance of energy resources and that it is in the hands of Icelandic and Icelanders. They also say that they do not consider this energy package to serve Iceland's interests. I'm asking why. A senator on the tendencies of these comments, as he entered, if it is true that there are only government agencies that are positive in this package than individuals, rural society, and even firms who pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u150	A respectable president. I think that's kind of how it goes with a very inaccurate count. Economic organization - I'm talking about the economic organization, the trade and service organization, and the like - seems to be a positive response to this. I was surprised to learn that the industrial organization had a positive view of this. I'm not sure the trade union members are very happy. We have to assume that we listen and listen to these nuclei companies that are on the ark and are operating, whether it is a big or small business or an individual, because they feel the changes to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u151	V.E.G. President. I'm going to give a brief talk that has something to do with the meeting material, but perhaps it is designed to save some time that would otherwise have gone to a meeting board. I'd like to discuss only the activities of the council, the legal file, and the priorities of the council. We spend a lot of time here, and he's not spent too much time, such as this, discussing this matter. The need to discuss the matter clearly is urgent, and here people are involved in new issues, new friendships, with regard to this matter in every speech, let me say. However, the timing of the discussion may not be quite correct in my opinion. I believe there's a lot of work to be done in society as we conduct this discussion. The discussion that needs to be discussed cannot be carried out fully before specific items have been touched. It's gonna take a while. To perform a sociology and economic analysis on the effects of this case, i.e. how it will affect Icelandic society when and if this induction takes place. We have to ask ourselves, " How important is it to put a pack of three through at this point? ' It would help a great deal, it would ease the propaganda of the energy package followers, to further clear this matter if they heard what has been said here, i.e. If they had a legal analysis of the facts, they would bring a legal analysis to determine whether these warnings, if found, are held, and if there are any precedents for such a warning, have been tried. Norway's advance notice has been made, but the evidence has been refuted here in more than one speech. They have certainly been put forward, but a letter from the Norwegians to the European Commission has not been answered, suggesting that these examples are not relevant. I'm counting, chief. President, that it would be nearing the destruction of the remaining days of the council to discuss such major issues as financial, transport, flight policies that we have not seen today in spite of the wonderful promises, the health policies of the Icelandic state, and the collective assessments of environmental, social, and economic effects of a strategy, a system plan, on electrical activities. I want to kill only the fact that in all this discussion, we have faced tremendous contradictions, including some. for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He has criticized the Central Party for standing here discussing this energy package, saying we're taking orders from the Norwegian Middle East or other Norwegians. I have not seen their involvement in the affairs of our Icelanders, i.e. input of energy pack three. At the same time, the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs have not been so concerned with the intervention of the EU ambassador, who have appeared on the official page of the Union. On June 8, last year, Michael Mann, the former ambassador, claimed that a package of energy for the Icelanders was an advantage. What's the cause, chief? President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u152	Mr. President. Thank you. Þór Þorvaldsson the talk and for setting up the position here on priorities, and so on. What vital issues await us! He mentioned a financial program that is urgent in the light of the changed enders, and a medical program is waiting for a discussion, for example. They may recall that a government inspection made a search for a health plan for the country and came out empty - handed. It did not come to be. How vital it is, then, that the medical program that has been prepared for a discussion here! The situation, Mr. President, is that we speak here, this third package of energy, which is totally underestimated by the government. Middle-class members and I have demonstrated the objective of our language that the matter depends on the ability to qualify for Congress. There's no basic evidence in this case. There is no legal analysis on the route to take this so-called warning that suddenly disappeared up the afternoon, from the end of the day. Four, the 15th of May. We're missing all analysis of Norwegian experience, and it could continue to be counted. This, too, is seen in the articles that take place. Senators are writing here, little thistles, that they have one by one, and they claim to journalists that the energy package will contribute to a lower electricity price in the country and another. They see in what trouble this case is. Of course, the government would be pleased to take the case back and postpone it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson's great for his counter-sponsored response. I have to say, as it is, I couldn't agree more. The matter depends on being a member of the council, not to be strongly understood. Much is missing here, as apparently in a number of local talks and also in the response of people in the community. People think they're going far beyond what they can walk. This legal analysis, of course. A senator came along in his counterargument, of course, that lawyers and scholars have noted that the path selected is really unqualified. Of course, they're careful not to get involved in politics, i.e. In politics, which follows a discussion on such matters. But I believe it is perfectly clear that they have proposed that this decision, this way, is a problem, and it is simply not possible to go this way, despite the government's choice to do so. The rationale associated with this also does not have water, the highest. President. By means of material and grammatical reasoning, we have demonstrated that this is the way that should not have been chosen. Here we have a right to make peace, and I'll agree with it. A senator that the government is pleased to take the case back to him and reconsider his mind on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u154	Mr. President. It's almost possible that you feel pain with what. advocates of this matter. They're writing their little homework in the magazines. Please allow me to witness here, by permission of the President in an article after what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who appeared in the News magazine this morning, says, with permission from the President: Iceland will continue to experience a number of decisions on the disposition or use of the earth's heat, water, or wind. I'm not going to discuss the language in this sentence, but I would like to point out that here is a detailed report, a thorough legal opinion made by the legal advisers of the government, the most respected and trustworthy and best, which particularly deals with it, in detail, that not only the provision and use of Icelandic energy resources but also the approval of these sources of energy approved by foreign institutions, as it is said, ◯a.m.k.k. An indirect effect on the organization, provision and use of the energy resources of the Icelandic country (Second Resources).
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for his second answer. Yes, that is so that you don't know if you should cry or laugh. It's come to the very point where we see people so desperate in this matter that we say things against a better awareness. Now I know people who have written in this way, as it were quoted. Senator, I've worked with him on other matters on committees at the council and I don't know him except for good. This sounds to me like the lines have been set for people, that they should drive through at any cost. It will only be held this line; it will be the hearing, whether it will be considered or not. They will simply be trampled into the throat of the people, and they will soon be offered dessert, which is the raw meat. It is a matter that is closely linked where warnings were given at unsupervised induction. How does it work? How's this going to work out for the nation, chief? President? I wonder.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u156	Mr. President. I want to make a subject of a very interesting article recently published in DV, by Professor Stefán Ólafsson of the University of Iceland, which discussed the energy package and the inscription of this article as: Aggressive evolution. From EU energy supply to HS Power. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ During a discussion on a pack of three energy, it is often said that it is of little importance while a string is not laid for energy exports from Iceland to Europe. And go on: ▪ It's a misleading way of speaking. - which is an interesting wording in the three words of this - ◯Orku package is part of the longer-term development of the energy policy framework, which is mainly aimed at increasing market areas and the privatization of public energy companies. This involves the promotion of competition as the sponsor of the position of households and businesses, which should be shown in a better and inexpensive service. However, this EU policy is surmounted by the fact that, in particular, it is an artificial competition, which will yield little gain to consumers. The most likely consequences of growth in public energy are in this country. I think a writer just hit that nail on his head. He's talking about a fake competition that will bring a small profit to consumers. That's exactly what's happened in Iceland. Here, members of Congress, in particular members of the Independence Committee, but also members of the Parliaments of Uphold - I mention the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir who has promoted the fact that these active competitions are so important and consumer protection, and this includes lower energy prices to consumers because of their ability to change energy sales. That is exactly what happens in this case, that it brings almost no profit. We've seen from a report made by ELA Lab. I mentioned earlier in this discussion that out of 140,000 homes, 370 people changed their energy sales or 0.3%, so this is not a profit. It is a fake competition, such as a writer, Professor Stefán Ólafsson, correctly included in this. Then he continues in this article, which is very interesting. He says, with President's permission: A good chance is hidden in this policy for private investors who will be given the opportunity to gain a share in public energy sources. And that happened. This was the case in the south by sea when the febrile Southnesia was private. Go on says: ▪ When the EU Directive on the new energy system from 1997 was introduced into Iceland's law by electrical law in 2003, most of the representatives of the EU's electronic energy companies were opposed. The main evidence against this change was that the synergistic effect would be lost, including with a double overgrowth of energy companies, resulting in increased costs and higher prices for users of energy. This happened exactly, e.g. South by sea. The same company, Southnesy Heat, was divided into two companies. This resulted in an increase in the cost that then took on consumers, and they carried that cost. Then the writer continues: The first sign of the New Order here was found in the requirements for exchange of public energy sources (e.g. It's the Southnesy and Encosystem of Reykjavík. Most prominent at first was the dissociation of Southneslation in HS Power and HS hosts. Then, private investors came to the property of HS Ennis, with the exhilarating brasgostan Ross Beaty from Canada in front of the category. He was said to have brought money into the business - which proved to be an illusion. I will proceed with this further request, Mr. President, to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u157	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir He gave the Birgir of Þórarinsson a speech. What a contrast there is between what is being set up for readers of a magazine! Hv. A senator quoted articles by Professor Stefán Ólafsson. But we were right in this exchange, me and you were right. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, including A series of articles by members of the Independence Party that have been appearing over the past few days, including one today after the incident. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason. It claims, Mr. President, illogically, that the rules of the energy package, as it is called, will lead to an increase in consumer protection. It is said that they will contribute to an increase in competition and equality between parties, all of which contribute to a lower price and better service for consumers. These statements are naturally illogical and conflict with known facts in reality. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm has provided information on his personal reporting on the results of his home, south with seawater, on a waterless beach, how previous energy packages resulted in an increase in energy prices. It is naturally known that this European partnership is a process of harmonizing and consistent markets so that only the relatively low energy prices in Iceland, which are enjoyed by households and which provide a particular competitive advantage will rise according to what happens and goes on in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree completely with him in this, and I find that the very writer I quoted here, Professor Stefán Ólafsson, is able to discern this very clearly in these writings. He's here talking about a fake competition that will bring back a small profit to consumers. Then he adds that high prices in public energy are the most likely consequences in this country. It all worked out. There were increases and increases throughout the country, especially for house - to - house warming. They were in business. There were special contracts that companies, many of them, did, like, do. bakers on buying energy at night, it'd be cheaper. There were special contracts that were in effect. They were all forbidden with these tanks, so I don't understand where the river to the consumers is. I just don't understand it, and I don't understand how management is doing this, to keep it steady and forward. It's a responsibility, when they see that we're holding here a powerful and powerful measure of communication against bringing in this package of energy, to reveal who else is, especially from the independent category, articles in the magazines that this is such a consumer protection, that we must introduce this package, Iceland is missing from consumer protection, energy prices, etc. It's pure and direct. It's all a bit of a mix-up. It's a responsibility to put it this way in the public's eye for this. I say, Mr President, we need to have a word with these senators here at the Senate Hall about these articles and the misinformation they present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u159	Mr. President. This indicates how far such discussions and compromises have gone into great trouble. I want to say, from the support team of this energy package that has no opinion, by illogical statements, that I allow to say in the chapters of a series, like to form in the article of what? paritaprevir Mysterious Bryndís Haraldsdóttir showed up in the Morning Press yesterday. She says that most of the false books were answered, and then she discussed slogans that have no support in the real world. Can these people afford to have such big talk? This case is unconvinced. There is no legal analysis on the way the government has chosen to go. We're looking for an analysis of the fourth energy package waiting on the other side of the corner. It is absurd, Mr. President, to intend to accept this third energy package with the fourth in drawers and on the desks of government departments and professional organisations - everywhere, except for members of Congress, of course. The experience of the Norwegians who applied themselves to a six or eight, likely eight, is to be considered. This matter is unconvinced, not accepted. The government should call this case again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u160	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator, the matter is maligned in more than one field. First of all, like a what? A senator correctly mentioned, in terms of this warning, and particularly when it comes to the impact of a three - part energy package to consumers in the country, homes, and businesses. We see gardening as an example, a very important industry that produces excellent products on a world scale, and the opportunities there are huge. Yesterday, there was a special debate about gardening and opportunities in the conference hall. Early - speaking was the problem. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, and the discussion was a real need and a good one. At the same time, we're about to install a energy package that can just walk off this industry dead, no less or less. The economic organizations of these organizations have expressed great concern over these plans of the government. That's right. A senator, this matter is maligned in many areas. It is perfectly normal to postpone and put on the necessary work that needs to be done. The Declarations of the Foreign Affairs Commission, why. paritaprevir Insectist Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, the answer to all questions has been made, that the subject has been discussed in this matter, etc., not to be understood. I'm surprised to learn that such statements are made. Many interesting points have been made in these discussions here at the Assembly Hall, which has been going on for a long time, and mainly by our Middle Class. It seems that other members of Parliament are not interested in sharing in the discussion, and they probably do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u161	Mr. President. In my last three speeches, I have briefly discussed the history of the continuum transfunctioner in this country. Certainly, Mr. President, there was a brief brief review, and much more was taken up, and many were released. That's the only place I hit on the big one. I did this because I think there's much we can learn from history, and it's mostly how the history of electricalization and construction has to do with great improvement in the country and the work structure and is, in fact, the best urban policy. I had mentioned in my earlier speeches that since the use of these sources of energy began here in the country, when the town brooks and other such falling waters began at the turn of 1900, prominent pioneers, such as Bjarni Runólfsson, in Hólmi, in Skattafells County, and Jóhannes Reykdal in Hafnarfjörður, were there. I had not mentioned that one of the pioneers of this group was Freeman B. Arngímsson, who probably had one of the most special lives of his contemporaries. Born in Hörgárdal valley, 1855, he moved to the western world in 1874 with the first large group of northern countries. A Frímann first obtained university education in Western Iceland, and he worked on education and progress in Canada. He even founded it. The World Flow of Winnipeg, 1886, was an inspiration to the National Institute of High School and Support in Iceland, which suffered a number of traumas during those years. Later, Frímann moved to the United States, where he became very interested in implementing Iceland's electrical development through the white coal, which he called, i.e. The power of water. A Frímann came here two of their missions of 1894 and 1895, but he spoke to most deaf ears. A quarter of a year's waiting took place in Iceland. A Frímann wanted to teach little results because he stood alone, poor, and kinless, against the conservativeness of his countries and the interests of coal merchants. However, it is also evident from the evidence that his plans were too unrealistic for even the most optimistic people. Mr. President. The history of energy at the turn of 1900 is still hiding. in particular a remarkable aspect of the interaction between the individual enterprise and the state and rural society, on the other hand. It seems that the private contribution of farmers and other smaller people to the development of government or rural society was to take advantage of this new technology that would prove so well to the Icelanders. The story is also interesting from the viewpoint of regional and geographic developments, e.g. Because in these years, the city's smokers were in line for the second time in the electric industry. There they pawned another horse, the gas, which turned out to be out of place. I've been looking through the reviews in this case, which are about Fifty, and have noticed specific tendencies in them. They can be classified as individuals, government agencies, employment drivers' organisations, energy companies and rural groups, so these are some categories. I have noticed that the majority of the individuals are negative about this synopsis proposal. Most of our rural areas are paying great attention to bringing in these energy directives, which we call the third energy package, with doubts about the power plant that can include and fear an increase in electricity prices. Most of the power companies are positive. After briefly asking myself, " Am I not listening? ' Aren't people being listened to in the country? I have such suspicions when individuals oppose it, society is paying a warning, but public institutions and companies are positive about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u162	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason spoke for him, which was the most interesting. There may be two things in it I'd like to stop by. On the one hand, it is the historical view of the development of the electrical energy system here on the land with special emphasis on early warfare in that subject, a great deal of individual initiatives. But, of course, later development became the possession of a major organization, land activation, and electricity production and distribution of electricity became largely part of public institutions, i.e. owned by the public on the land. That is quite different from what happens and going on in the European energy market that these energy packages are supposed to cover and are designed to create the environment. The other thing I would like to pause in a talk. The senator is his analysis of the reports available on this matter. He has classed them into one of four categories, i.e. individual, business, business, power company, and government agencies. I have previously given this talk, asking how normal it is, how government agencies who submit to democratic authority feel in expressing themselves on social issues as if they have some special opinion, as if it were politicians in the role of making decisions or choosing people to make decisions in their own ways. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a little strange to me, and I'd like to hear the attitude of a boy. A senator on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for meditation and questions. I noticed that there was a difference between the comments in this matter. It now wants to be this way, in a great number of legal agencies that are being treated here at the council, that much weight is placed on government reviews, public agencies under the department. Thus, the system is often talking to itself. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. President, these are the kind of letters sent from room to room. The legislatures are usually produced in the plot. Then they come in here and they come to the committees. In effect, most of the answers are received from the less - than - possible subsidiary agencies, so it can be said that they are quickly being sent from room to room or from hill, though there may be a longer way to go. This is how many times humans correspond with themselves. However, there are a number of individuals who have put in hearsays, people in the community, people who are working their jobs and taking time from their jobs to send out very detailed, long, and clear comments. But they're just removed from the table. Tens of individuals, they're just taken off the table. There's nothing to listen to. Over 90% of these stories are negative, but there is no listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u164	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Of course, it is understandable that those who are going to experience the consequences of the induction of this energy package will be heard. There are particularly individuals, homes and employment companies who have at least to this end, you will benefit from the competitive prelude created by the relatively low electricity price in Iceland. The fact that an official agency will begin to describe it as some independent opinion of a particular subject acts almost as a humor to my ears. How can you expect a public agency - if it at any other level expresses some opinion or opinion, it must express the opinion that agrees with the opinion that the minister of the jury has and the course he has in the matter at any given time. There is, of course, nothing else to expect. It is as if each other were to think that people have some significance that this or the public agency has some particular opinion and is to expect people to do something with such information. Thank you. For a senator to shed light on this matter by causing his historical energy, as he has done here in several speeches, as well as by identifying these comments. I'm sure you could analyze them. But the main lines, as he has drawn them, are very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for meditation. I can agree with much of what he said. I put it so in my first response that the system prefers to write to itself. It's the simplest. Substitutions send in positive comments, of course, much more convenient. And there is a greater chance that humans will generally agree. I was going to read some of these institutions - I am not minimizing the opinion of the directors or the management of these institutions - to get an overview of this: The employment record provides a positive review; HS Energy yields a positive report; Icelandic energy sharing is positive; Landsnet is positive; Landactivation positive; Iceland's Natural Institute of Natural Sciences positive; Contestation positive; Association of Energy and Resources, Positive; Industrial Association Positive; Stronger Iceland Positive - This is listed. There are not much more positive comments. These are the most important companies of the kind I mentioned. Then you will see how negative the rest of the comments, the majority of them I didn't list, are. The reviews are over 50. And the rural communities, many of them in the priming areas, pay a warning in the implementation of this principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his speech. It was interesting to me that this is his view that turns to men who get - I'm going to go for it. A senator is referring to the treatment of the Commission on the case, that there was not a listening ear to the most relevant voices involved in the business enterprise, whether it was the home accounting of individuals or of an enterprise where electricity consumption represents something as a total cost. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Does he sense this as a principle when it comes to the introduction of EU types, that the system is being listened more to than to those who have to live in the changing environment? Or does he consider this an exception in this case? Because it is, of course, that if those who are most affected by changing rules experience that the council does not take into account the viewpoints expressed in these matters, it rapidly reduces the willingness of humans to work in such careful debates and, on the other hand, does not improve the long - term goal of increasing the way and respect of the legislation. I'd be interested to hear the senator's viewpoint on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. Bergþór For his meditation, Bergethetheth the son of Ólason. Whether I've noticed some particular rule in this regard, I can't say at all, and I'm not going to say it at all. I've been a little short here at the council, and I don't see many such cases going through here at all. I spent a long time in the administration, pointing to the obvious fact that there are a lot of legal products produced in the plots. Then they come into the council and to the committee and are asked for reviews. Then there are reviews, and as I put it, almost from the local room or the Office of the Ministry. It would be unnatural and would even be newsworthy if the rumors were bitterly negative about the bill or suggestions that come from recruitments and are written there in the system. It would be news, and it has been in some cases if subsidiary or members of the organisation had very negative comments about them. I'm just pointing out the obvious. Of course, these reviews are positive for natural causes. So I believe that the significance of stories that come from independent sources must be worth more and more worth listening to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the answer. It is, of course, that attracts attention, and let's say, if the Ministry's Department of Education tolerates the bill of Education and it can be said of other institutions, other institutions, other government ministers. But that's how it is, and I agree with it. paritaprevir In this regard, Karl Gauti Hjaltason's Karla Hjaltason, that the point of a rumor might be unfashionable when it comes to not just hints about some legal point but when actual politics and subject matter are taken into consideration. And then in my opinion, I ask why. A senator whether he is the same as he is, the envelopes of the outside parties, from an independent company on the market or from individuals, or from comparable sources to receive special attention, because the other one actually leaves us at the point where we get more of the same, more of the assembly, especially in these introductions, where political views seem to be very small distances. I don't dare say that there are ever any shrinking, but the experience of a lot of people is that it's small.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his comments. Yes, but to these words I told me earlier about people being writing to themselves, they often offer kind comments about things that might be more pleasant to say. And, of course, well - documented individuals often make adjustments and are common. But less of a policy-maker who's going against government policy, I'm serious about it. It is rather newsworthy, I would think, and perhaps only natural, that human policy is not to be strongly opposed. That's why I have asked myself in this case, in which a large number of individuals reported reviews, Mr. President, that the majority are very negative, and a number of these reports are from individuals who are experts in the fields of activation, energy and electrical engineering, etc. These people often sent very detailed comments on the subject. That is why, in the past, I put it as a result of these comments along with reports from companies and rural communities as they are removed from the board and they are not listening for opinions and indications to give a warning in this matter and to go in the obvious way, which is to look for extraducation at the place we have a contract right to consult, i.e. The joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u170	Mr. President. Sadly, the followers of this matter are not available to take part in this discussion, but it is only to consider what they say in newspapers. Earlier this morning, I discussed factors in this article. paritaprevir The son of Vilhjálmur the Árnason, who appeared today in the News magazine, and yesterday I took a few words from an article that was quite valid. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir wrote in the Morning newspaper yesterday. So I'll take it down in an article or two. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, she writes in her previous conference on the energy package that criticism has taken a toll on the lack of the potential consequences of refusing to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee. She reports that the State Department of State consulted the former president of the EFTA Court, Carl Baudenbacher. It's nice to consult this fine Swiss lawyer who was formerly a judge at the EFTA Court but is now an independent, active lawyer and adviser. In fact, I had the opportunity to take a few words at that fine man a few weeks ago because an interview appeared with him in the Morning Press, where he discussed the Icesave deals and described his attitude that they had been on the pair, if I may allow myself to say so, the Versailles Treaty. I may not have to say any more about that. Everyone knows how they all had grown up. So it was a very interesting interview with the lawyer and a keen analysis. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir explains that Baudenbacher, in his opinion, concluded that although it was possible to reject the production of the EU new legislation in the EEA at the end of the trial - it appeared in the news, Mr. President, that Mr. Baudenbacher, it was possible for the Icelanders to use 102 gr. The EEA Convention - but it quotes him, in its own article, that a third energy package is not a matter of being justified in resorting to such emergency measures. I wondered if he used such expressions. There's nowhere in 102th or 103. .. or the laws that are considered to be such, taking into account any emergency arrangements. In explanations of the bill, when the EEA contract was registered, it is not spoken of at 102rd. as an emergency or safety agent or as such. This is a simple law on the treatment of the common EEA committee. According to Dr. Baudenbacher, if the third energy package is rejected, it might be a game of Iceland's country that the EEA deal is critical. I haven't noticed Dr. Baudenbacher any support for the claim, if this is right after him which I felt out of his own self do not question. Of course, getting a legal diagnosis from someone like him is a great gain, but in other respects it seems to me that what has been left over has some form of political reflection. I had the opportunity to ask Professor Davíð Þór Björgvinsson if there were any sources at the EEA Convention to employ us, if that were the case, if we were to seek this treatment, punishment, or revenge. He replied in no uncertain terms that there were no such sources. These thoughts that the EU contract may be critical of the third energy package being rejected is therefore illogical.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u171	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson A great deal for the speech. He reminded me of those words. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir had agreed on Baudenbacher's opinion, they were on the way that this case was not of that kind or a reason to resort to such emergency arrangements, which was to return the case to the joint EEA committee. It may have been repeated, but I am moved to mention it in this talk at 102rd. and, in fact, more articles of the Convention on the European Economic Areas when it comes to such opinions. I can do it thoroughly and read their articles if I want to do so. There is no reference to this as some kind of emergency arrangement of any kind, but to the contrary, that this is the natural course. I have not seen or thoroughly studied the wording in this man's opinion. I have to do it right now, and I have to make sure it's that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u172	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. I have to admit, I'm sorry. A senator who has been quoted here and wrote an article in the Morning paper, which makes himself very thankable, approached the matter with a lack of criticism. It is about and quotes Dr. Baudenbacher that the third energy package is not that it is justified in resorting to emergency measures. Wait, what case, if this were now the head of an emergency arrangement, which this is not just a contracting route, should be of the sort an emergency might be used? They're talking about, and they're asking Icelanders to surrender their custody over their energy resources, at least if it is determined that the legal advisers of the government, the Friðrik of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Motorsson, who say that foreign institutions will receive at least An indirect effect, on what? On an organization. The provision of Iceland's energy resources. What would such a matter be like this? This is exactly the case, so it is very strange that this is the case with the nation's very great interests in the relationship that has been discussed. Then, in an article published by Dr. Baudenbacher, it is naturally perfectly unafraid. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir that the EU contract could play a game in Iceland if the third energy package is rejected. Where does such a claim support the law of this agreement? Where is it in the contract that could justify such a statement? [[The president calls.]] It's hard to take it seriously, and it can't be more than that man had any details on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u173	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This is in a summary quoted by Professor Carl Baudenbacher. It says in the English language, by permission of a president: ▪Although the state of the situation of punishment of the incorribility of new EU Law into EEA Law, the predefined product is not the appropriate disorder to get the emergency debris.◯ Here comes this word, an emergency inhibitor, and at the next point he says again, by permission of the president: ▪Icelands with a trawl from the Third Energy Pack would be a part of that muralship in the EEA Agreement. It's that if we were to pull ourselves out of this third energy package and refuse to confirm it, it would have this effect. That would put the European Economic Area Treaty at risk. That's all there is to it. Where can such declarations be found in the law? That's what I'm asking myself. At any rate, it is not in the European Economic Area Convention. I admit I'm not a lawyer, I read it as a player. Nevertheless, I think there is even more reason for such declarations, and if this is what the government puts its hat on, that's a little bit more reason. This, then, will be the subject of whether these fine statements are simply purchased to make it sound as bad for those who have to take a stand on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u174	President wants less of it. According to English text or another foreign text, it is translated into English.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u175	Mr. President. There's nothing wrong with Dr. Baudenbacher expressing the attitude that he does not feel that the Icelanders should use the rights they have according to the 102nd paragraph. However, while there is no evidence that this issue is not relevant, and while there is no evidence that it might support the work, rather than the venture, it may not be a very much practice by making such a statement. Actually, there's more meat on these bones. The morning edition of May 10, quotes the fine professor and Dr. Baudenbacher, at least it is suggested in an editorial that day that if the word of Baudenbacher is actually a political obligation to accept what the Norwegians and the EU think to serve, whatever the EEA itself says. An editorial asks: Will members of the Parliament be pressured to agree with the third energy package on these grounds? The question is: Give them, i.e. The senators, nothing for the independence of Iceland and the sovereignty? Compromise in a report. paritaprevir There's no criticism of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's humor. He is at risk, as if there were any facts involved here. And there are others who do not have criticism. I'll remind you what to do. Councilmen, chairmans of the Controversies and Environment declared that they were prepared to accept this energy package before the evidence was submitted to the General Assembly, saying that they were ready to accept the energy package unseen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u176	Mr. President. Thank you. A fine speech for a senator. There was a number of remarkable things that came out there, including that. how he differs from the Baudenbacher's opinion of the State Department. Now, it has to be said that Baudenbacher's declarations make one a bit Spanish to see in the work he worked for the Ministry and Minister, especially when he begins this emergency. Now I don't have legal skills, Mr. President, but let's say that in the contract there's something called an emergency court. Then it would likely have to be defined in particular what fell under an emergency, the emergency agent mentioned there by Baudenbacher. There's a term that can't be found anywhere in this contract. A man wonders, and I agree with what. paritaprevir In this regard, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson: Was the line submitted before working on the rating started? Was the line being submitted by the Ministry in this regard? Because it is surprising that humans can create such a term that has a very profound meaning when it comes to negotiations, but there is nowhere in the contract itself. [[The president calls.]] Watch your step. A senator made a little more details about what he did well here in a talk earlier? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u177	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I am one of the most highly called upon to appear before the Council of Justice by the way the government proclaims to go on this matter, i.e. bringing in the third pack of energy, but with so - called legal warnings that have not been adequately explained. It is a good thing to call a foreign specialist, but it was during the day that what he had mainly to do was to give political thought. That's not what's missing. There is no hard - hitting legal diagnosis of important factors in this case. There is no need for political reflections or speculations back and forth that appear to be illogical. There has been no question about rationalizing that this law is a cry of distress. And there has not been any explanation for why using it would make Iceland's involvement a bit critical to the European market. So, in itself, we are nowhere closer, despite a bold claim. We don't need this. I therefore reiterate my wishes that this will be submitted to adequate opinions, to legal instruments, to which these factors are thoroughly understood and in good order, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I'll agree that there's a need for details on this. Here it is so that this highly valued authority of the government, and I don't doubt that man has an enormous experience - but it seems that a certain line was laid. This man was considered by the government. One person asks himself: " What would the government have done if it had been viewed as not pleasing to the government? What if the opinion of our team was only assumed that we should immediately refer the case to the joint EEA committee or reject these packages completely? How, then, would the government have responded? Like what? A senator named is a political factor. Two major factors have been developed, i.e. The emergency inhibitor referred to by the recruiter, but none of which are mentioned in the contract. Nowhere. It seems very strange to me, Mr. President, that it can be concluded that there is some emergency control in a contract when there is no mention of the term an emergency control in the contract. It has to be natural to back up the political party that the employer is taking, that this will upset the deal. I don't see a strong argument as to what might cause this. It's just a deal between two parties who have the right to handle this for a committee that has the job of making peace. So there's a lot that doesn't have to be considered and that needs to be explained. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u179	Mr. President. I'm going to give a witness in the local case and give other men greater responsibility that the Icelanders became members of the European Economic Area. The witness was prime minister at that time, Oddsson, the son of Odd, and I feel sure that he wrote the text found in a letter to the city of Reykjavík in the May 11, issue of Awake! With the permission of the president, I will give the witness, Davíð, the son of Oddsson, the word on the comment that there is a problem here. By permission of the president's permission, the witness, Davíð Oddsson, says in Reykjavík, May 11. It is necessary to review thoroughly whether any human has said a discussion about the EEA Convention, that one time the Icelanders would want to use that right to deny the induction of the ships they didn't suit, that deal would fall. In this regard, Davíð, the son of Oddsson, writes in his magazine, stated that these threats and fear - inspiring propaganda are false. And yet this threat is the only excuse for running this risky case through the government. Its preparation is similar to that of no one at all. Here's a man who knows exactly what he's talking about. He was there, he bore greater responsibility for the case, and he has made it clear that all talk of an emergency here is just another gap.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u180	V.E.G. President. A number of discussions have been made about the competitive show in this third energy package. This will result in a competitive environment, and it has been claimed with several rights that there is a risk that under certain circumstances there will be a need for a division of land activation. We have a system today, which is so built up that land-resurrection has about 70% market, Nature's Energy or Energy saves Reykjavík by 20% and HS Energy and HD provide about 10%. I'm sorry that when you come in here more people who are even smaller or may fight up in HS Power or something like that, they'll say at some point, "Here's an uneven split. The market is not an active competition. We need to divide up land reactivation. Is it not possible for us to have subterranean activation or something like that on our part? It has often been dismissed as a real danger. But it has been compiled where in the energy package, i.e. in his articles or on grounds, you can find the fact that land induction needs to be replaced. I'd like to, with permission of the highest. To review just a few of the articles that could cause the separation of land reactivation. Article 3 of Regulation 2009/72/EC is prescribed, by permission of the President: ▪ The rights of the covenant guarantees citizens of the Union - including Free cargo transfers, rights and the right to perform services - are only possible at a market that is fully open, where all consumers can choose for themselves, and all suppliers are able to distribute freely to their customers. Article 8 of Regulation 2009/72/EC is stated, by permission of the President: To ensure the competition and delivery of electricity at the most competitive level, Member States and national monitoring authorities should facilitate the availability of new nuclear power donors with electrical energy sources from different sources across borders and to new markets in energy production. Also, Mr President, to the 57th section of Regulation 2009/72, says by permission of the President: Achieving fair competition and easy access to different supplies and promoting growth in new electricity efficiency should be a priority for Member States so that clients can take full advantage of opportunities for free internal electricity markets. This is stated in Article 59 of Regulation 2009/72/EC, by permission of the President: The development of the actual internal market of electrical energy, with a network that is linked to the whole Community, should be one of the main objectives of this directive and the administrative issues relating to cross-border and regional markets, therefore, shall be one of the main tasks of the surveillance authorities, in close cooperation with the Agency as appropriate.◯ That's 60. Under Regulation 2009/72/EC, it is stated by permission of the President: To ensure a common set of rules for the real market and a broad range of electricity availability available to all should also be one of the main objectives of this directive. In order to accomplish this, the right market will be an incentive for cross-border partnerships and investments in new energy production and, at the same time, result in longer-term price harmonisation. In the 3rd. Case one. Under Regulation 2009/72/EC, it is stated by permission of the President: ▪ The Member States must ensure that, on the basis of their institutions' organisations and with appropriate attention to the local rule that electronic energy companies are being run in accordance with the principles of this directive, under notice of 2. mg, to establish a safe and environmentally sustainable competitiveness market in the field of electricity, and that the above-mentioned enterprises do not differ in terms of rights or duties. [[The president calls.]] So many were words. [[The president calls.]] This is a reading of how you can divide your country's reactivation, or how you might even demand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u181	V.E.G. President. There's something really big here, i.e. This recipe as a dog. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's tombstone read up. This recipe is so perfect that it is not quite like it. Several times in the last few hours, we've come to realize that there's going to be a division of land reactivations. I'd like to think about it a little bit more. I take down a review sent by my friend, Ögmundur Jónasson, who envisions the market of energy resources in this country. It's all in one direction. Ögmundur says, by permission of the President: In this brief review, I would like to highlight the social grounds and warn against focusing on this particular package rather than on the road that the European Union proclaimed in the mid - 1990's on the market use of electricity. The name of the journey has always been clear, and the energy packets are called just a guard on this route, which will end in a global European electrical system operating in a market under controlled surveillance. This is where I think it's showing a certain course of action. paritaprevir Sæmundsson then went on to recommend that the manner inactivation of the land be broken down, all done to please this centrally controlled power of the European Energy Agency. And all I want is a better view of the future. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u182	Mr. President. I've been like those power bags before, i.e. one to three, and soon four and five, when we are given in teaspoons or in small doses. We are not struck down by one blow. Rather, we are trying to lead us on this journey. It is true that at the beginning or very early in this process energy, which we Icelanders have always considered to be a resource, defined as a warning. It was defined as a product for the marketing of it. This was done at the time because of special circumstances that existed then in the European Union, including the European Union. correspondent in Germany There were the superior private energy companies, such as Hagar in electricity production in Germany, and the German competitive authorities and European Europeans, saw the expected, or the most necessary, of trying to chop these companies down to balance their competition between them. We're talking about a wide model because here in Iceland, we've considered energy resources to be the national share, or should be in public property. Hence, it was a shock at the time when HD Energy temporarily went off to a shell company in Sweden that then owned an address in Canada and ended up buying at its own time, in the sense of steel, ten times its share in ten years or so, all at the cost of electricity merchants here at home. It may be such a situation that we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u183	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. That's exactly what this is all about, i.e. thinking about our energy resources as a product. The market is to rule, and the highest bidder, so to speak, will win that war. I'll stick to Mr. Algmund Jónasson and his review, with President's permission: However, it is the final goal that needs to be watched - the whole road - that is the market area and followed by the privatization of this sector. In turn, the market agreement is intended to ensure a share of the public with consumer protection and punishment if competitiveness is not met. In other words, all trust is placed on the market and on his moaning. They come to a party called a drawer company like a whisk. A senator described earlier, and it is not surprising that we will see yet more such parties coming to meals. Then we won't be able to resist. Then we'll just have to swallow what's set before us. That's why we're here again: We're here to seize this opportunity now. That's what we're supposed to put this to the joint EEA committee now. It's not what. A senator completely believe that the law of the market will go beyond what we want to believe is normal, i.e. that we keep our companies owned?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u184	Mr. President. I'd like to say first, it's an excellent answer for which I thank you. There are so many red lights that start when a text like the one I had here is read, especially when you think of the wish of a few of the proselytists of the Independence Party, who have appeared publicly, of the right to sell Landing, or of selling parts of the Contriment. It's been said: Yes, it's a top investment opportunity for the pension fund. How can it be done when the pension funds choose to cash in and sell their profits? Then who's the buyer, Mr. President? This case is like a gate in which to perform these biggest dreams, the biggest dreams, some of them independents. It is not affordable when it is done. This is usually the case when independents and the most liberals in that category have wanted something private and find that like pigs are stepping on them, they usually choose the most difficult tasks to do. They want to run the Free Harbor at Cheflavík, and they want to have a share in land activation. Nobody's offered to run the clinic at Patrekaut, so I'll give an example. People smell the prey, and as it says, the animals smell blood, and they like blood. But that is not what we want. We want to keep these companies on national property.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u185	President. Thank you. A senator for good review of the type 72/2009/EC. If I understood why. A senator would be right to discuss that these so - called, I think he called it "little medicine " or" taking things in with a teaspoon, " which he discussed in several teams how to claim that there is a claim that one large company cannot really work and inhibit others at the market. In the introduction of the 3rd team of these types, the senator is referred to as free cargo transport, confirmed rights and freedom to perform services, etc. and this is only possible at a market that is fully open, since consumers can choose for themselves suppliers and suppliers, it is possible to distribute freely to all their customers. It is then spoken of in the 57th Act of Regulation, by permission of the president: Achieving fair competition and easy access to different suppliers and contributing to the growth of new electricity production capacity should be a priority for Member States... Onwards continue. The 59th team speaks of: The development of real internal markets shall therefore be one of the main objectives of this directive and the administrative issues relating to cross-border integration, and the regional market shall therefore be one of the main aspects of the monitoring authorities... We've talked a lot about the surveillance authorities in this regard, ACER and ESA and what it's called. I'd like to ask a member of the council: Is there any part of this all being given an exception or adjustment to Regulation 72/2009/EC? Are we not actually taking the initiative to introduce it with skin and hair?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u186	Mr. President. What made me want to look at this Regulation, 72/2009, may have been that it was very important in the beginning of this discussion, but the discussion may have been very much about Regulation 713/2009 because it is so obvious. But this summary is naturally very carefully taken because it is so open, that I think, and by taking it in this case in a single meal but not in a small dose, we are actually undergoing the conditions presented here at once. As a good man once said from this platform: In one instant, we are taking all of this into our own legislation and have no way out. That's what we've been standing here for the last time on this watch, maybe you've been warning us because there's always been a way of telling us: You want to destroy the EEA deal. Far from it! We have a sense of goodness and in all humility that once we have agreed to this structure, number three, the energy package, with all the wrongs mentioned here, we have no way out. You can't back out. The only way out of here, if this doesn't work for us, is to let the EEA deal up, and that's something I think most of us don't care about. That's why we've warned about this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u187	President. I agree with what. A senator that no one has joined this platform and told him that he wants to sacrifice the excellent cooperation we have with the EEA agreement, but he agrees to sow the fear-mongering and amazing claims that we are not allowed to pass a contract that will, of course, expound him. If this is a one-sided announcement to Iceland, this so-called agreement, so to speak, we are, of course, in a bad place about this important document. However, criticism is not under way. No criticism has been overcome by the cooperation we have with or with other countries. But I would like to ask. In view of the fact that he did so well over 72 C.E. The directive, whether he knows any member of the board who must know better than we do, would hardly be able to continue to accept this, came up here, and then described this trend compared to this article in the fourth energy package. Has a what? A senator is given some information that exists in the currently existing fourth energy package, not ours, but it is available elsewhere, to continue to develop this energy cohesion in the way that the senator crossed, i.e. to make the market more uniform, to continue with this and to do this in order to make it more difficult for the state companies to work in some sort of monologue environment - we have seen it in Europe that the European Union is going to be fully fighting the big government companies -- as told, whether the senator has seen or heard any member of the government come up here and describe this trend that lies ahead of each energy package four?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u188	Mr. President. Soon, I can't remember. It may not be quite defined because the management business, and members of this agreement in the chamber, in this chair, has generally not been describing the agreement as such what I have heard. They have come up in the public assembly to speak abusively of those who contradict and doubt. Most of them are nuts. Congress members of the third energy package have generally come up here to describe their zeal in the doubt - having group. And if I may put it that way, they have actually come up in the chair to shoot the messenger, not to try to answer, or to explain, or to make a statement. There may be one thing, first thing. A senator asks about this, you have actually asked with some anticipation that those who burn very much for the third energy package would come up here and deliver a flash message about what's so wonderful about bringing in this package. What is so necessary about doing so? How will he transform our lives for the better? But I just haven't heard that argument yet. All that has been served, in fact, no one has mentioned the fourth energy package, and none of these fine diplomats, if I recall correctly. I don't think the discussion on their part has been about the energy package itself and his Excellency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u189	V.E.G. President. We've been here a little wide. What I'm getting at is that ACER will channel energy transport, i.e. ACER will ensure that the energy will be moved from where there is sufficient and to where there is a shortage. In other words, there will be no Icelandic government to control it, but a three - pack of energy will be created. The three energy pack is based on trusting a network in Europe, and that's fine, but removing the administration of the government, i.e. that the ACER will see to it that the energy is transferred from where it is, to where it is lacking, we know how it ends. ACER will make sure the sea cable is placed in the country I prefer to watch this so that we are not merely considering the word that a sea cable is being laid from Iceland but that we will make sure that the ACER is placed in Iceland because Europe needs pure energy. Therefore, the ACER energy Agency will have a superior position, a kind of policy at this common European energy market and will ensure that all are equal. It will only mean one thing for us; a higher price of energy. What we have in Europe is what is called pure energy, and what we have here is a real need for it. As the situation exists today, our energy resources are part of the energy system and property of the activation provider. So it will be covered by the ACER, the European Energy Agency. As I mentioned earlier, Europe's energy shortage is headed for an energy shortage. This is through the sealing of contaminated energy plants for coal and oil. And if the European Union is to achieve that goal, obviously we need to go to Iceland for clean energy, just as we have seen happening in Norway. It is not particularly surprising, then, that the interest is being expressed here in such an obvious way from the European Union, for the European Union will certainly have some authority, but it will need to be drawn to the European Energy Agency, not to the rulers of the United States. The Icelandic energy agency will sit at the European level without voting rights. We've been over here that the three energy package is a market area, which means that no energy payment is allowed and neither will it be allowed to take advantage of the political government of energy, at least not Icelandic. The market will see to it that energy will be sold to the highest bidder, which will rule out the existence of democratic institutions. No wonder the main opposition to the package comes from farmers! They realize what is about to happen. Or we can add to the possibility that if we produce this process in the wrong way, it will not be possible for those in the U.S. government to become victims of damage to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u190	President. I thank the senator for his speech. We've been calling for a while to get more information from government personnel, including what it will mean for Iceland. Hv. A senator did well to review certain points related to this, and we must therefore ask ourselves, " Is it not fully why they come here in the public assembly, members of the board, and those who may be following this whole issue together, and what does it mean for the rest if we accept a pack of three now, the effect of a energy pack four will, e.g. have it as a matter of course. A senator read here, which we had to find out for ourselves last night and night. The European Union's objective is unclear how it will connect with or how and how it will affect Iceland and Icelandic interests and the Icelandic system structure, i.e. management with the electricity market and what sources will be left over. I would like to ask the senator if this fine talk of further information, further evidence, a legal assessment of administrative factors, and other aspects of the fourth energy package before continuing is carried out, as all of this is linked. When you add a pack of three and four energy, you have an enormous sum that is very important to have perspective on and some assessment of change, consequences, plus what we're going to make of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u191	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson very much. I thought it was shocking to hear of Carl Baudenbacher's opinion here because it's really his political tore up on what could possibly happen if we reject the package, as it's called, i.e. if we send the package to the joint EEA committee to further investigate how we can fully import a pack of three energy. It is remarkable, and it is shocking to hear that governments have held out that exact argument, i.e. The political opinion of an individual that comes from the European Union. I find it shocking to realize that a word like an emergency doesn't come from Iceland. Words like increasing consumer protection are not from Iceland. And it's certainly not Iceland that if we get our legal, right route, a contract route, the EEA deal will be upset. It's all starting to get a little clearer in my head. I'm sure that if we're not right about things right now, the damage rate of all the stakeholders who have so much money in this whole process can develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u192	President. I thank the senator for the answer. It has not in itself been found, not by any scholar or lawyer, or by any of its leaders, the followers of the case, to claim that the introduction here, the methodology that is to be used for this introduction, this premise, and all that is designed to prevent the threat of a lawsuit, i.e. that an individual, another state, another enterprise, address against the Icelandic government for misindicating a directive or for failing to meet its obligations under the EEA Convention in some way. On the contrary, it has been said, including those of the two who often say that there is nothing that prevents such things, that there is nothing to say that humans do not have that right. Inexpect always puts us at greater risk of litigation in some way. I'd like to ask a senator if she doesn't feel that she has good reason to look to see if any action, perhaps by postponing the case, by winning the case better, and in some way securing us against such lawsuits. We saw what happened to our unheated meat, thinking we were in pretty good shape. But something else was revealed, especially because there are no Icelandic courts that will handle this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u193	V.E.G. President. That's the whole point. ACER is designed to set the standards. This will not be done by the government of the United States. I find it sobering to think that the declarations of EFTA and the European Union will not necessarily diminish the fact that stakeholders use their right to appeal to damages. I can imagine, as I mentioned earlier, that the people who have contributed considerable money to sealine ideas, energy companies and people who want to build these windmill gardens will attend their rights if this is not the right thing to do. I don't think there's any doubt in it. All this process involves legal uncertainty. There is no doubt about it. But there is again a matter of appeal to the lawyers. Have we considered some of the ways in which this can take place? Some have said that we have set up some warning for Iceland. In Norway it was done, but it did not work out. Then you wonder: Is it because the contract is between countries, from nation to nation, and from territory to region, if that is the case? If these parties sit in their corners and put some notice, the deal may not work. It is never intended to take note of the warnings made in each country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u194	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a great speech. It was inexplicably in her language the legal uncertainty that most skilled experts have said and claimed that following the procedure that the government has decided to use during the source of the energy package. This was also true in earlier moments. A senator I thank for. But there may be one thing about which we need to bear in mind that energy panels to this point have been eaten with teaspoons, that the energy pack three is not an end stop, far from it. If we're going to record it without real notice, without actually having the real way of reaching our rights in any way, then we're naturally exposed to what follows. I find it very interesting what happened. A senator has made possible damage because I believe it is a very real danger. That's why it was a hell of a time. That is exactly why a senator would appear and tore all of us very carefully, so we know the risk. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would then agree with us, those who have been saying so here, that after the discussion that has taken place and was somewhat good, it is not advisable to set matters aside until the fall, take more careful and take care of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u195	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's great about this. By my knowledge, these guys don't think it's a warning. I'm absolutely certain of that because we have an example like that from Norway. There were eight reserves for everything that was set up, all about a pack of three energy. The only way we can do the right thing so that we don't get some kind of damage done is to refer it to the EEA. That's the right thing to do. That's the only legal process we're supposed to take. It's clear that we need to be careful about what happens when a cable is laid here, because as I said, it's ACER that will decide if there's an opinion about him. I can't repeat enough of the time that we have to go on the right route because the examples prove that declarations do not keep water at the end of the river. We need to intervene now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u196	Mr. President. That's very nice of you. A member of the Parliament should give an example from Norway, since it has been noted in the discussion that lit up a lawsuit in Norway for the administrative court to see if the resulting energy package has stood up for the Norwegian constitution. The decision on this subject will fall, or that case will be taken, in the judicial court of September 23, the second. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator would agree that we should put aside the issue we have right here until we see what the outcome of the case for the European Court of Justice in Norway will be, whether a pack of energy is expected to be received there is a Norwegian constitution, and it is not much different from the one we live in. Secondly, it has been found that Norwegian companies have been very exposed to the expense supplies that have been obtained from the recording of a three - pack of energy. That's why I want to ask him why. Also, a member of the body of Congress to see whether the financial consequences of taking up the package for people and businesses are so that we know exactly what we're offering people and what we're calling on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u197	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's scoring for the question. You see, the cards are not shown at all. It's a little uncomfortable to know that an organization in this country has received a presentation on a pack of four energy. We haven't seen any of those packages or got information about him. We don't know what ideologies will remain. We know one thing, if you bring in a three-pack of energy, that we will not be able to prevent a sea cable from being placed here. Let's say that the vision shows that the cables are coming here, we can't stop it because the ACER will tell us that it is necessary to protect this freedom and that we can firmly support the definition of electricity as a product and that we are starting to define the national energy resources as a product. There is nothing natural about such a future. I don't believe that people want to take a closer look at things. So, in a sense, I agree. The senator says we should postpone the case if the decision now cannot be made to send a pack of energy to the joint EEA committee. Perhaps the only thing to know is to postpone the induction until the fall at least, for as mentioned in previous speeches tonight, the reviews are not all positive for a three - pack energy package. [[The president calls.]] They're few to be said by now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u198	A respectable president. I am forced to pause here in my speech series, which I have called, and then what? I've been trying to figure out what the effect on our environment will be on the end of the induction. The reason I want to put in a talk about another subject is because I read another article of sponsors' energy package three in the News magazine earlier. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason. The importance of increased consumer protection and transparency was still being introduced through the three so-called energy packages. Then I began to think that I did not recall much of the discussion about increasing consumer protection or debate in debates at the highest level. Secretary of state at the beginning, or in the speech of the majority opinion of the State Department, why. paritaprevir The Master of the Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. I then passed through the Senate arrangement itself, and there's about nothing there, I let myself say, about consumer protection or transparency. The same is true of the committee, when you go through it. The main focus for consumers is a description of what happened during the induction of the first and second energy package. Here I am, for example. with the speech of history at the highest. The minister of the Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son, and here I have a prefect for the head of the head of the foreign committee, please. paritaprevir The Master of the Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. There is no evidence in these four key documents that increased consumer protection beyond the original and other energy packages, or the emphasis on increased transparency for consumers is in some foreground. It's as if these are just points that the co-founders of the induction have felt in the panic that grabbed them when they realized that they didn't know where the world meant for warning. I must request that, by some means, the President be part of the success of any of the best supporters, preferably the leading executive of the committee's opinion, answer that question. Of course, getting the highest would be out of control. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðlaug of Þór Þórðarson, in the area. Now I don't know if he's back in the country or not. But we members of the Central Party who have stood here and tried to get through the core of this matter - we are some pity in having been, perhaps by cloning, convinced that there were some key elements, some of the fundamental factors that were involved in increasing consumer protection and translucency in this matter to the public. It seems to be foam alone when it's under pressure. And what is left if this is what key supporters of this energy package had to say when asked, "What's in it for us?" Why should we introduce this? What's in it? It was consumer protection, increased consumer protection, and transparency. This has been the case since the second. started. Of course, this is not acceptable. I can take it into account that you should have read it earlier with these points in mind. However, it is not acceptable for some form of nuclear matter to be developed when one realizes that he or she has been exposed to an empty problem in defending the matter. And now we're at zero point in this respect. I'll have to ask for backup again. President. We're actually gonna have to get someone involved in this, because now I have no idea what is in this case to benefit the public and the consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u199	V.E.G. President. It's kind of grizzly. Thank you. paritaprevir For a good speech, Ólason Bergþór of Ola, when I was asleep, which I was not. But okay. You see, it is always becoming clearer that the rulers seem to base their reasoning, their opinion, on Carl Baudenbacher's words, because these words are taken from his political ideas, i.e. increased consumer protection, increased transparency. I mentioned earlier the word "adversary" and finally we don't bring in a pack of energy, we're just going to be upset by the EEA deal. I can honestly say that we've reached some sort of zero point. What I want inside of you. A member in particular remains: What is the situation now? I heard he called for the highest. Secretary of State would be happy to be with us here. I agree with that. But I can do it. A senator pointed out a possible path from now on?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u200	A respectable president. The way in itself is the same, which has existed since the beginning of the 2nd. First of all, it is the government's decision to take the matter off, to reject it, and to send it to the joint EEA committee. It's one way. Another way is that the President will take the case off schedule, temporarily. Although the formal procedure of the State Department of State has been completed, I assume that there is no basis for putting the matter into place in some sort of informal treatment, the Foreign Affairs Committee or any combination of experts, where members would be called before and in mind. Review the viewpoints and concerns that exist in the ahead so that they can be maintained. Third way, the one who's been put up with us in the Central Party is to have us speak here until we get down. Something's at the top. President is in command of his conference board. In view of the questions that have come up - if someone has pointed this out at earlier levels, I have missed it - I have not noticed that any of us in our own discussion have actually taken to the point that concerns consumer protection, the transparency that was supposed to be so much, when it turns out that it is, that it seems, an absolute secondary factor in the affairs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u201	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason foreman. It is clear to me that we need to take a closer look. We need to analyze the text that has been written. I know exactly how it is new to the council - paper and data we need to read the flow about, and the EEA types may not be quite the favorite reading material, but I'm getting considerable training on that subject. I mentioned earlier that many reporters had not been positive about a pack of three energy. I think it's a good way, if you don't mind. A senator mentioned this matter in the Hall of Congress to return a committee so that even guests can be called. Although guests in the previous discussion are often interviewed, I have mentioned this in the past, to a new truth, and to a new basis for evaluating the situation. I think we're at that point right now. All I've read for the benefit of consumer protection is that it involves changing the company I buy from the energy I need. But I can see that the energy will be as expensive everywhere. It's just like the gas station. We get endless text messages, first from one company that sells fuel to us, and a few seconds later, the next comes and may have just a few pennies, even though there is no more. This must be much more beneficial than it is today. We are always coming to a new truth, and we must be able to look into it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u202	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. First, I'd like to say what. A senator to the competition and the ability to change supplies is present today. It's the least of it to go in between, it came in with the first or second package, it has nothing to do with this third energy package. But no one really does. Less than 1% of the population uses this warrant each year. But I forgot one thing before, one of the possibilities in the situation, and that's to say, at the highest level. In an interview with Þórdís Kolbrún, Reykfjörð, a Gylfadóttir minister, was referring to the Morning Press on November 16, 2018. This does not rule out any further delay in an energy package. Asking whether a further postponement of the matter can be ruled out, it answers: Nothing can be ruled out on a written matter. - I have only a limited period of time, but before this same report, it's a text that emphasizes that this is meant to postpone the case until the fall of 2019.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u203	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólason's gypsy for the talk that was quite interesting, points out that this is close to the fact that the followers of a three - pack of energy were simply swept past the main points of this case in their history, discussing much of this consumer protection that may not be found. What is this consumer protection? Does It Matter - What? Is it in a lower power prices, or is it in the power to choose to buy electricity at the same price as in Europe? Is that a protection? Is it not missing the main issue that is -- who? Iceland's interests, I'd say. That's the main thing, isn't it? Isn't that why we're standing here and hanging like dogs on this case, that we think Iceland's interests are being turned over? This is a parapolitic language. It's not supposed to be a class thing, by any means. I suppose that after reading me through a legal opinion or perhaps rather, Carl Baudenbachers's political opinion that it scared me. That's pretty close to threats and violence. I have to say, Mr. President, it's not good for me to sit up under such a dissatisfaction, and I would like to ask you why. A senator would like me to know that this is a close threat to Carl Baudenbachers's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u204	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. In this context I would like to, although I do not have the lyrics of that fist before me, to refer to the words of my former boss from before some of the then secretary of transportation, Sturla Böðvarsson, who said in an article in the morning newspaper that Dr. Baudenbacher's essay was one of the total fear - inspiring propaganda. I don't think that's violent, for there goes a man of integrity with words. I think it's good to leave that answer to that specific question. With regard to consumer protection, public agencies are available to replace energy dealers and have been practified for years. The price for consumers seems to have evolved, even beyond the index of consumer prices, during this period, to discuss that it is all for consumers, with the aim of reducing prices to them somehow not being reached through the whole induction process. There is a lot of talk about public freedom to choose a energy dealer, both in the bill's report and in the committee's opinion, but that's just a point that's not new. It's been going on and it's been practified, but it was a surprise in the conversation last night when during the day, there were few who took advantage of it if it was correct that in the past year, only 370 homes had been replaced by energy dealers. [[The president calls.]] If I took the number correctly, there are some 400,000 homes in this country and I have to admit that I cannot believe that the ratio is that low.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u205	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I haven't tried. paritaprevir The Birgir man Þórarinsson, by the way, does not assume that a senator's word was so mean either. [[Up front.]] I'm saying, I'm just thinking that the numbers mentioned are striking. Nothing in the case of government officials supports any change, nothing. I think it's time, after all these discussions, that here is about to blacken out that the government will do what it's wanted, to take this matter off, to look into the available data in the case, and to decide to make a decision to make peace because if it is being run through here during an assembly and a nation, it's not good to be expected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u206	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with what happened. paritaprevir At the end of this conversation, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson said, the only sensible thing to do is to take the case off a program, whether to take it out temporarily and to do it in a informal committee job, if we call it, or to postpone it until the fall. I don't suppose people would be willing to make that decision, but this may come if you realize it and find a similar conclusion as we in the media have made over the past few days, that the situation is not working well, unconcerned, and that the argument is avoiding the core issues. It's a bad feeling that such a vast, complicated matter of life's interests is just as badly worked and unsatisfactory as it seems to be here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u207	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In view of a talk, I began to look at the envelopes. A senator and I must admit that, quickly - I may have missed - I do not see information from the Necessary Association on the matter of Congress related to the third energy package. I reiterate that I may have overlooked it unless the review is part of some other comment, e.g. I'm from a professional driver's partner. I don't quite know how to tell you. On the other hand, the National Association of Iceland has already issued a review, and it is certainly true that the Common Union has made its decision when it comes to consumers' issues and whether the changes in markets are in the interests of consumers. So it's interesting as hell. A senator mentioned here, calling for where this consumer protection is so high in this induction. Since members of the Parliament endeavor to write about it, especially in articles in the national languages, it is reasonable to ask them to point out where it is. I can't remember that other members of an independent party wrote on the subject in this way. That may be a misreading. If consumer protection is primarily a competition of some kind, which, of course, is not active in this market, the most important thing is to say that there is a big truth in all the matter, especially in a market where few competition is really the dominant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u208	A respectable president. I think you're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, I don't think the Neythic Society has given us any information about this. Now I'm just saying it by memory, I don't remember reading their review. I remember the story of the ASI... which has the cause of the civilian in the great foreground of its own opinion. Most recently, ASI's comments on this subject are very negative. You just have to read it in that context. I haven't read again, but I have carefully read the articles of the Independence Council that have appeared over the past few weeks after the council changed their minds on this matter. As I parted the talk, an article was triggered. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason published this morning's News Newsletter on my behalf that there was no consistent between the emphasis of the energy package supporters, while they were still seen in the Senate, the importance of this matter in the consumer protection and the transparency of the energy market, as compared to what I remembered was in the Constitution of the State Minister's Relations and then the majority of the State Department's resolutions resolutions, or as well as the debates of the Foreign Ministers or head of more part of the National Affairs Committee. And it did say at home, there is no way to read it from the data available here that increasing consumer protection is one of the main factors in this matter. [[The president calls.]] This appears to be reasoning, which was found in the confusion when people were looking for the answers a few days ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u209	President. Further, at the end of this year, there is no review of the consumer organizations on this matter, and it may tell us all about how much consumer protection is there that the organization has not seen a reason to post a review unless they are so closely supplied that they have not felt the need to do so. The large Icelandic artist who is constantly on the Watch for consumers, Iceland's Common Association, e.g. In terms of prices and access to services and so forth, the introduction has been clearly opposed. A senator who does so even ... becauseof the markets of electricity. Like their models, those articles by independent senators are written to convince themselves primarily. We know that the backland has risen up and is very opposed to what is to be done there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u210	A respectable president. I'm afraid I will. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was right about our fine members of the Independence Party, that they are halfway to home bridges, and that the other half is a limp to take care of themselves. Now, of course, I say this most kindly to these fine senators, but I have to admit that I find it a little uncomfortable to have sat under those days together that we in the Central Party misunderstood, turn out, tell the false and lying in a pit when a man comes to the core of the argument that supporters of the Parliament's ledument, don't keep water. [[The president calls.]] A self - examination should be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u211	V.E.G. President. EFTA and the EU declaration on understanding that Iceland will not eliminate barriers to cross-border integration will likely reduce the likelihood of a lawsuit against Iceland for failing to perform that obligation. However, these statements do not impair the right stakeholders, to form sea cable companies or those who would like to place such strings, e.g. National Grid, Super Atlantic, or any other source, if Iceland doesn't clear up barriers to cross-border connections. You see, under Directive 72/2009 and Regulation 713/2009, these persons gain right, whether or not political statements have been made. They bind only the hands of those whom they gave politically and otherwise. It is not unknown that those who engage in politics will have a change of mind or a change of heart. The wording: Member States shall work closely together and ◯ block the obstacles of businesses with energy and natural gas across borders in order to achieve the Community's targets on energy. Could this be any clearer, Mr. President? 36th. The directive states that surveillance authorities should take appropriate measures to achieve the following targets within the framework and power field [...] to eliminate restrictions in business through electricity between Member States, including developing an appropriate cross-border transport capacity to increase the integration and integration of national markets that can facilitate electrical flow within the Community. Shared, that means connecting. The directive thus violates these declared targets of Iceland that the Council shall make decisions on exchange by electricity to other countries. The EU policy is clear in these areas. With the approval of the decree No. 72/2009 implements that or that policy, and the Power Institute is commissioned to work on that directive and achieve its targets under the directive. This is a contradiction, the highest. President. She's doing a good job. I'm just going to think about it here because it's the bottom line. It's not about consumer protection, it's all about the European Union and its aims and to achieve EU goals. It's not about consumer protection and consumer interests, 350,000 scare north of the sea. Not in any way. What I was going through here, and I'm very direct quotations from this induction project, it's all about it. The law comes from the European Union, flows through the EEA together to Iceland. It doesn't work the other way. What we get out of this is that we've got into the market by bringing in these laws. This is the foundation and core of our work and there's a lot of good things about it, I don't hide it, but not all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u212	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. There are two things I would like to mention about that as a boy. A senator came in. First, though, I would like to say that the European Union can own it, and its institutions, that it is not in big hiding places with its goals. They are available in EU data, and all they need is to visit the ACER website, which makes it quite clear. Then there's one more thing that I can't remember at the moment what's called, starts with CE, and then there's something, maybe I can add it to some other time later. Similarly, the Homepage for monitoring devices is very clear on the objectives to be achieved. All of this, however, makes it possible that the aims from that point of view are quite clear and available, and it is easier to get information there than from those of the bill's supporters, apparently, especially from the State Department representatives or from the Foreign Affairs Committee after the case entered. The other thing I'd like to mention, maybe just a question. The senator turns to his speculations about possible damage to responsibilities. I've said it several times in speeches in other contexts, but not in this case, that it seems to have become an independent stock of income from the entire U.S. teeming halls to bring damages to government funds because of the alleged damage caused by the incorrect induction of the other and this rule. Shared. A senator worries me that such things are imminent, perhaps with numbers that are very different from those we know about food matters? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u213	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. Yes, you're right, and I couldn't agree more. A senator that when you read a text coming from the European Union and its institutions, it is a complete harmony and harmony of that texts, whether by law or by whatever authority it is. There's no hurry with things. The European Union knows exactly what they want, knows exactly what they need. They know the challenges they face, and they shape a way to cope with them. I can respect that, 100%. In terms of damages, they were not mentioned in my speech, but it has been discussed with them that there is a possibility for them to come. I think there is a chance that we are likely to develop these actions, away from the political statements, can have legitimate expectations for those who have an interest in them. If it is not true that the induction can be obtained in the United States. The Icelandic state is nothing more than taxpayers who are so stuck with paying the bill, as in any case. A member of the body or importee quoted from a person who was wrong in the raw meat. I think it must be just like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u214	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson answered. We seem somehow to be on, what to say, a battlefield that we don't have much experience fighting when it comes to damages that are now being attempted by the wrong introductions and charges that the state experiences from stakeholders who believe they can build their rights on the European Union principle. It drew special attention, and perhaps it was one of the bells that called when it was specifically set - I can't remember what document it was or what assistant said it was very little worried about the development of a damaged-tempered duty. The argument was that the type was adopted in a traditional way, which simply meant that these warning agents were not involved. Of course, these reserves, as we know, are only for home bridges to do so. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér, who honors us by being here with us in the hall, welcome, a pleasure to have a dog. There's a senator here, but the council members are amazingly lonely that it's all very nice and cool. However, it is specifically stated that there is a low risk of damage at the same time as you say: There are warnings all around and all around but that they are also convinced that by bringing it in exactly as it comes from the cow, the warnings are not linked in any way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u215	V.E.G. President. Yes, I betrayed myself to answer one of my questions. The senator of last year's answer to my assessment of whether the sum of such damages could be different and greater than what we have so far seen. I think it is quite clear that they would always be in some relationship or proportion to the interests involved. Moving energy to the extent that this has been discussed between countries or in the repair of sea cables and the expense of building power plants is the sum of such natural extremes compared to importing fossils or something for this nation. Hv. A senator mentioned that there was little concern over the liability of the offense, since the introduction was that it was adopted in the usual way. I think it's quite right that the induction is going to be that way, and I'm no better than the way the compromise is made so that there's a whole pack of energy created here because you just don't have the guts to stand up and test whether the European Economics Convention is really a contract or if it's some one-sided document that we should just turn us under and out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u216	President. She's a little special, as indicated in the question of which. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, this high emphasis on consumer protection, but without pointing to what it involves. I'm sorry that most of the members of the board of directors who were standing at the door earlier are gone, because I want to ask them to stay as soon as I give them my speech, because I need to ask them a few questions. There it is. paritaprevir It would be nice to have a helmet Hafliðason with the Bogi to respond later. With regard to consumer protection, I think it's normal, since it's so focused on it and the senators are writing a story in the papers about it, that we call it where it is exactly. There is another question I would like to ask. Senator: If we can get this case pointed to the joint EEA Committee - it only threw me off my feet that I was looking at the wrong member of Congress, this is what it is now, it's all coming together. Is there something about consumer protection that prevents us from taking up laws in itself or as a model for other countries or countries when we want to improve our protection? Is there anything that prevents us from making good copies of the laws on consumer protection and thus making use of them? I don't think there's anything in these matters that's being put forward right now that is making more money for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u217	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. It is interesting to think: Is it possible for us Icelanders to introduce laws that even exist somewhere else and are there another pattern that could benefit the consumers in this country? I'm assuming that he's referring to laws and consumer protection on electricity and energy markets. In the European Economic Convention, there is a law allowing Member States to introduce laws and change laws that fall into the sector of these laws as long as it does not affect the agreement. This may be a problem, but as for consumer protection, I will first eat my hat and stick if consumer protection is so great and then it's so rich in this induction we're discussing here that it'll trickle up everything else that's been discussed and the worries we've described. I call upon the ensuing escorts to come here and give us a clear basis for what is involved in this consumer protection. I've been looking for, like other members of the council here, what it is exactly, whether the benefits are that it is of salvation to know that you can change energy dealers even if there's no financial advantage in it, but that feeling that you're free. [[The president calls.]] That may be the case, and how we appreciate it can be asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u218	President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'd like to change my gear for a second and ask him why. A senator's opinion of the Industrial Association of Change about the third energy package is reflected in the opinion of the Industrial Association. I'll cut down on it a little, but I'll take it into consideration later on in my talk. Industrial organizations refer to the winter package, the fourth energy package. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In the opinion of the Industrial Association, there are underlying interests that have further appeal to local interests and circumstances than the third energy package. While the third energy pack has limited reference to local circumstances, beyond sharpening the rules already set on a previous energy package, the fourth energy package is far more extensive and the importance of emphasising the air on a local specialised set of indicators. It is obvious that the industrial organization at least has a head start on us generals regarding the contents of the fourth energy package. It is clear that it contains some form of suggestions or adjustments that have a broader appeal to the situation in Iceland than the third energy package, as they estimate. Is it not important, then, that we stop and think about ourselves, including... based on consumer views, would it not be reasonable for these packages, three and four, to be viewed as one whole, since it is now beginning to make a threat to the events involved? It is special that the federal Parliaments have not taken the lead in coming here and informing us that this fourth pack of energy needs a closer examination already.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u219	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is true that the firm's opinion of the industry is not very direct regarding a pack of three energy. It's a mood, let's say, a temperier than you would expect, since you would expect the price of electrical energy would have a significant effect on a commercial company that is part of this organization. It is a pleasure to see, however, that industrial organizations evidently read and that they realize that the fourth energy package will lead to a third. There's been some debates in the past night and nights that people have chosen to call "And then what?" I think you're right. I'll say it from the bottom of my mind. A senator that it was a matter of salvation to see the diagnostic work that has already been accomplished by the four energy packets for the Icelandic public because if we make ourselves committed to bringing in this unsuspectingly, we must also give ourselves the same value with a pack of four energy. If we can't get up here and now we can probably forget that idea and don't even have to talk about such suggestions at the council when four and five packs come in. Then it must only be made by some simple announcement, that it will be published on the news or something like that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u220	The situation is that it is rapidly approaching at 9 a.m., and then meetings begin at the council committees, so the president has to pray. 3.m. South, Birgir Þórarinsson, apologize for the request that the president ask him to give his 13th speech, where we must pause at a meeting or postpone and cancel a meeting so that we don't meet in committees and conferences. The president would like to thank the staff of the Generals, especially a small conference office, who has had to work very hard so that this meeting might be held here. This has been a meeting for over 19 hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u221	Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party that the Guðer Þórðarson would be absent on the next issue in public affairs. So today, on Tuesday, May 21, he takes his place at the General Assembly as his deputy of the 1st Independence Party in Smoke. n., Albert Guðmundsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u222	Mr. President. Yesterday's Parliamentaries submitted a bill for radical changes in the laws on genetic taxes. The current law expects 10% of the farm's clean property to be paid, with a cut off of $1.5 million. For the rest of your life, there's a change. The bill suggests that the death home is viewed as the possession of an inheritance tax. Instead, each heir would be viewed as the opposite of the genetic tax. The bill also allows tax freedom to continue in the inheritance of each heir. Thus, the government's tax returns to the cause of death, depending on the number of Heirs and their inheritances. This is a fundamental change. At that time, the tax level is expected to be three, 10%, 15%, and 20%, depending on the share of the product's budget. Of the first 15 million, 10% of the next 15 million are paid 15%, and of the share, which is more than 30 million, 20% will pay. Despite these tax rates, however, no one will pay a gene tax of the first 6.5 million for his share. This rule leads to a large proportion of heiress who will pay no gene tax and fall by substantial quantities, while most of them will rise. No one has the right to leave a legacy of estate in the estate of the deceased, who will be divided into an heir. In living life, the free gift of their possessions is in harmony with the laws and rules. So there will be no inheritance until it is made up. In a sense, chance at what comes into existence leads to greater wealth and wealth for an heir. It is only natural for the heirs most to receive the tax more than anything else. The change also helps to reduce the collection of wealth in few hands. By personally binding the discount, others receive their inheritance without tax returns. Thus, as genetic taxes drop into the State at the exchange of most people who die, their inheritance is better distributed to individuals in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u223	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss the importance of innovation, research and evolution. We often say that the basis for future economic growth rests on innovation in exported, resource - related economy, which has largely been based on the use of nature's resources, and a large proportion of exports are derived from industry such as marine roads and tourism. Since natural resources are limited, we need to build for more valuable creations, improve production, improve global competitiveness, and the ability of jobs to fund currency and look to innovation, and especially to research and development in the fields of knowledge. V.E.G. The government is very aware of this situation and the fact and the vision of the future, as shown by the Constitution, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ Trends and practical intelligence are an important basis for a wide range of employment life, strong competitiveness, economic growth and well - being of the nations, especially in the light of the social changes expected in industry and education because of rapid technological changes. In the national budget under consideration. The budget comes with the highest. Governments well to follow through with action, including in relation to the plans of the Scientific and Technical Council, which is involved in simplifying the work of the pioneers and sceptres, supporting the musculoskeletal, reimburseing costs for research and development, setting up an investment fund and innovation organisation and with increased funding for these projects. Thus, there is a cumulative increase to innovation, a subject range 7, during the period 2020,2024, 4,674 million. Q, or an increase of 31% in fixed prices of 2019. I am convinced that no other government has followed this vision as closely as most have agreed over the years that there is a complete key to increasing production, employment, and future honors. A powerful, efficient musculoskeletal development in which most areas of employment are the core policy samples to 2030 and is certainly, a respectable president, one of the principal candidates for future life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u224	A respectable president. Rather, it is the dark alliance that the right extremes have formed in an effort to take over the European Parliament in the elections now held on Thursday. This alliance is not confined to Europe. Yanis Varoufakis, former Greek financial minister, has referred to the movement, by permission of the president, as the Nationalist International◯, of some sort of international nationalist alliance. Some might say that these extreme politicians and their groups have a definite diagnosis of the problem. They pretend that they will heal the earthly scene of the globalization. But the possible solutions they present in history are repugnant. Minor groups, women, and immigrants are made into scapegoats. Civil rights and international rights protection are the means of speaking against education, enlightenment and the free media. Our responsibility in climate change is resonated or directly denied. The greatest of today's problems requires international cooperation. The climate problem is a close example, and there is also the struggle to overcome it. We have the reality that 1% of the world has authority over half of its material advantages. If not done, this ratio will increase to 2/3 parts in the next decade. When is it enough? Can be found at 70%, 80%, 90%, 100% or 1% of them may have 1%. To the extent that the freedom of capital has been above all the rest of the world has been freedom. Therefore, it can be warned that the importance of international cooperation can be embellished by a simple discussion of business freedom. A respectable president. The value of human rights and equality expressed here at the General Assembly and a measure of loneliness in the world debate. Let us protect these values and do our part to promote international cooperation in the interests of human rights and sustainable development. Often needed, but now is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u225	A respectable president. I'm going to go to the council to discuss that, the job of the council. Where, in effect, are we in this assembly when we are left with the fact that one body of Congress is obsessed with the U.S. Senate Hall and the activities of the duly elected senators? I left with the highest. Last week, a president visited Sweden, where we learned how things work out there. It lists members of Parliament the previous day on the rosary, speaking for a maximum of eight minutes to a maximum of eight minutes. You see, the language barrier in this hall, both last night and last week, is almost unique in the councils. The fact that several senators can maintain their discussion, resist, or rather allow me to make a reply to myself, since they maintain the empty repetitious, self - righteous repeats of self - indulgence. A respectable president. I wondered, " Is there any reason to consider that we're using a 71. g. Congress. You see, when members of Congress have held four, five, even six speeches and a number of answers, there is nothing new about it. I was sitting here for a lot of discussions last night, and nothing new came up, nothing. The central category is opposed to installing the third energy package. That's clear. I'm just saying, next case on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u226	V.E.G. President. There are two things I want to clean up today about the third energy package. The first is ACER, given the motive, a common energy agency and including aims to ensure that electrical energy is not dissociated from buyers or energy supplied. These measures of energy package take effect immediately on his approval but with the approval of the Icelanders'obligation to sell the energy they may export in the future in the EU electricity market according to the EU rules. In addition, Iceland's people take all the stock costs for these businesses on the land and pay for higher energy prices. At that time, Icelanders will take all the market risks associated with such a business within the expected EU legal framework. In short, it is the EU's technical takeover on Iceland's resources. The second point is, by permission of the President, the National Regulatory Authority, sometimes referred to as a national rule, which will represent Iceland when Energy Institute is working on legal tasks under the EU Directive No. 72/2009. They must be performed independent of the other governments, as described in this case, with the aim of establishing EU policies, such as markets by EU regulations. The Commission will be on Icelandic budgets and will receive the management and monitoring role of the Energy Agency. It should be noted that the National Order will represent Iceland without vote. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u227	President. It's fine that there was a clear separation between me and what. A senator who spoke before me because I'm not going to hold my sixth, seventh, eighth, or nineth speech on the third energy package or what it was. But I'm going to talk about a much larger case in the short time I have. This morning they were delighted to learn that there were three of the highest. Ministers, Prime Ministers, Ministers of Justice and Department of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs introduced joint action by the government against man traders and social subs. This is a matter that we should pay much attention and time in this hall, for it is extremely important to promote legal and surveillance resources in order to ensure proper assistance and protection from victims of a job room and forced labor. President. I'm happy to see how serious it is. That's what a government's gonna take care of. This has been on the table of many partners of the labour market, especially unions, to improve the price of action. Hence, it is a joy to see that this step is taken now. Preoperative work has been very effective, including Sources of advice from the European Safety and Cooperation Agency, which are well-known for such matters and what actions to take in order to actually prevent manure and social subsidies. I look forward to seeing what that work will bring and how to deal with the necessary changes it will require.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u228	A respectable president. At the General Assembly, we have a bill on the unity of Federal and SEC. The matter has not been given much or long publicity at the council, it was foretold less than two months ago. It suggests that one of the largest and most powerful institutions in the nation's economy will be established. For the Economic and Business Committee, there have been a number of delegates who have strongly warned that fusion will be achieved in the way proposed, i.e. full of these two important cornerstones, we can say, in Icelandic economy. There are sound reasons for this warning: it is, in fact, about certain basics that we might have learned after a total economic collapse here just a decade ago. It is precisely the separating of power and the never mixing of activities and monitoring of the same procedure within the same institution as proposed. The stock exchange is very strongly warning that this way will be done, that the Federal Bank will be assigned to keep itself under surveillance as one of the largest markets in the domestic stock market. In addition to this, there is another factor that is that a minister in certain cases has a negative authority in the decisions made by an independent bank, in matters of decision-making, and in the resources the bank has to ensure financial stability. Then again you ask the basics: Is it an independent money bank that is subject to a minister's denial under certain circumstances? I think it's totally prerogative and irresponsible on the part of the Generals to intend to settle this matter more and less unchanged with this warning on our backs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u229	President. A recent opinion of the Committee of Moral Affairs points out what to do. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir has been guilty of violation of Congress regulations. The same view is that I did not commit a violation of the moral code that seems to be the reason I was not understood by the ethic. The words I dropped were physical and meaningfully exactly the same ones. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was sentenced to sin. Certainly, I did not use the exact same words that it may well be that it is important when a moral committee evaluates the meaning of words. President. So I'd like to be as clear as I can because of the Commission's opinion when my business on driving expenses was dismissed, as it turned out, that Ásmundur Friðriksson had certainly received a refund from the World Council for a show-up for the INN, that he had been reimbursed for the use of his own car, although it was against the rules of such reimburses and because Ásmundur admitted to have been reimbursed for his own class, which is clearly not part of his job as a senator. Then I must express my opinion again and now use a word that everyone understands, including a social committee. It is now evidence that Ásmundur Friðriksson has drawn money, public money, and we do not see how it is being tested. I tell them a word with full knowledge that they have been condemned as a violation of Congress regulations. But we all know in here that they are true. Hence, there is a confession and confirmation of the dismissal of the Presidency Committee. [[The president calls.]] Hence, this is a suspicion in all meaning of their words. If we can break the code of ethics for telling the truth, there is hope. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u230	The president considers this application to be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u231	A respectable president. I think I'm getting a little closer to understanding the party's position to the third energy package. I think they're against him. I think they think in a foreign country there's no shelter but a natural tax bill. The third energy package debate is driven by European opponents. Some of them feel that this rule can be negotiated again, especially by those who were in their own time in a hurry to do so when they were ministers themselves. Others want to go so far as to separate themselves from the EEA and to form vague ideas about a two - sided relationship with the European Union, where Iceland continued to use the benefits of relationships and to rid themselves of obligations. This is the dream of everything for nothing. Finally, those who wish to give up all of this are under the motto: Iceland from EFTA I personally consider the European Union to be the site of equality, the efforts of representatives of the public, the politicians, and the administrative districts to draw close to the capital, restrict it, and establish a principle that ensures competition and prevents monopolies by consumers, the public, to guide it. The front line in the European debate has moved. To many, it is practical to leave the EEA behind and then see. The argument is not complicated. These are: That's what you said about Icesave. They want to risk the rich national interest we have from our presence in the EEA. It's a stunt behavior of rich people. I personally feel that we should go all the way into the European Union. [[The president calls.]] There the Icelanders have much to offer. They could have a real effect rather than sit a long distance and oppose regulations and regulations, confident that they will go through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u232	V.E.G. President. Last week, about 50 refugees arrived in the country, where they had a place to live on the Coyote and in the Swamplands where local people cooperated with the State to prepare their arrival and received them. These are refugees from Syria who have spent the past few years in Lebanon, nine families, and some 30 children. I would like to encourage other societies to do the same. We are to welcome these people and take advantage of their arrival and stay to enrich their culture and society, since the goal of most refugees is to return to their homes. It is important to look to a small community and be careful, such as how Icelandic education is conducted. If we Icelanders prosper by watering alien cultures and mixing with our own, we will succeed. We live in a society of nations, sharing in a growing world where large numbers of people take their place. We also noted in detail that there have never been more individuals in the past who have been affected by conflicts, violence, or natural disasters in their own lands. According to a new report, some 42 million people in their own country were on shelter by the end of the year. The publishers of this report are an international organization that specializes in people's economic declines within their own country and the Norwegian refugee Council. The case is discussed on the Web site World Light, the State Department's Information System on Development and Generence. Let us ask ourselves, as Kant did: " Do we want the standards we set for ourselves also to become the general law, not just for our generation, but for the next? Would today's politician have the courage to do what he needs? I'd like to use this opportunity to invite these people to Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u233	A respectable president. Alone goes on and I'd like you to take a good look at it for me. I'm going to talk to you about an Ólafur Eggertsson farmer in the village, and Jón Bernódusson, an engineer who has large ideas of breeding in the fishery. They have reported that by growing 100,000 acres, which are the same size as Sunheimsand as the Moriscos, one hundred thousand tons of grad oil can be produced, all of which uses 130,000 tons of fish fleets. Each miller will yield one ton of oil, which is an amazingly high value, as well as two tons of DNA left. Each miller reduces these six tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere during plant growth, and half of it is back incinerated by the oil. Therefore, there is considerable benefit. This is a unique opportunity for an Icelandic nation to save expensive oil import to the fishing fleet, which, in fact, has unbelievably reduced its carbon dioxide emissions from 1990 to - well, really from the end of the century until 2016 by 50% compared with exported products, which are extremely effective. We should do an oil plant breeding plan for the production of fuel that could take us 5 to 10 years. In the processing of the grad, her seeds are separated from straws, which is half the mass of life. By pushing the seeds into one third of the oil, or 1 60,000 tons, and two thirds, or 220,000 tons of flour to be used to raise pigs, raise cattle, and in salmon farms. The benefits are many times for society and the environment. A respectable president. We're talking about a billion dollars in imported oil and a reduction in the country's carbon tracks. As I said in my speech yesterday about gardening, life is now. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. We'll wake up and don't let these opportunities pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u234	A respectable president. I want to draw attention to the fact that on Friday, a global strike will occur, on the good day of May 24. As it happens, at the age of 3, restoration is a good day. Yet, there is a very serious issue that young people are taking up, and there is a call for immediate action by governments and commercial life on climate. Then we better listen now and not ignore the voices and the appeals of young people who have been here every Friday for weeks to remind us of how important it is that we here take seriously the present great woe. It is serious, and it needs to be seen as evidence that governments take these things seriously. We see that in a financial program, combating climate change is not necessarily a major challenge. We see in the transport program ambitions in combating climate change. We can see this from a wide range of places. Whatever the case, we must make strict demands to all of us. I especially want us to notice this and support our young people, who are calling for us to work across the border, across the country. This is a fine example of young people, such as those in the advertisement yesterday, calling for it and pressing on us who are here working together around the world. Doing so will ensure a safer and better future for young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u235	Mr. President. The facts are often misinformed in a general discussion. In Iceland and elsewhere, there have been growing numbers of politicians and others who say things that are unequivocally false. I'm not talking about opinions. I'm talking about statements where they can be found in such a way that they can't be dealt with. This phenomenon has been called false news, even though the source of the falsehood is just as true in politics. In times past, people had a different word for deliberate falsehood, and they had become liars. Tolerance for lying is limited, but people in the past were punished for lying by a loss of reputation or by excommunication. It was a simpler time when the total amount of information available to communities was limited and easier to explore the truthfulness of individual claims. Today, people have to deal with such a finder of information that no one could ever get a chance to verify it all, even if he didn't do anything else. What complicates the issue then that we have whole - souled is much more receptive to what sounds good and confirms our faith than what is true, especially if the truth is contrary to our sense of identity. These two forms of information and human nature have now been attributed to the subversive elements of society to poison debates and seize power. It is hoped that people will ask what to do with it. Correcting the misdemeanors is useless as they encounter no, you'll be right-and-end, and the charges of presumptuousness. Ignoring the lies creates the idea that everyone agrees and forbids lies can impair freedom of expression. In effect, the language against society has been armed, so the remains of a pathetic, empty mind. After years of irritation, I have to admit that I am a brother - in - law. I don't know what to do, but there are more. The recent collapse of the milkshaking attacks on the politicians of theatre must be understood in that light. When society's basic rules are broken back in that there is no civilized way to resist them, no wonder when the irritability breaks out in an uncivilized way. [[The president calls.]] We must find a better way to deal with false stories and false stories. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u236	A respectable president. There are 350 children on a waiting list at the Development and Behavior Center, which provides an analysis of developmental and behavioural disturbances, such as ADHD and autism. The waiting time is at least The situation has been unchanged for the past three years, says a news report yesterday. In a report on the same issue on ROV 8 May, or 12 days ago, there were 330 children on a waiting list at the Development and behavior stations, waiting up to 12 months for the service. Children who have to wait longer for analysis are at greater risk of developing a variety of problems. This means that there is an increase in the waiting lists of almost two children a day, 20 children in 12 days. This problem was highlighted in a 2016 State Review report, but it did not result. There is no increase in money to satisfy the need, to identify, or to care for more children, let alone eliminate the list of lists. No, it's just that more children are being added to a waiting list at the Development and behavior center. There are probably 1,52,000,16,000 children in some part of the world who need services at some time. Long wait may have very bad consequences. Waiting increases, e.g. the problems of children with ADHD who have autism and develop possibly face depression, anxiety, and feelings of distress. Being on a waiting list is unbearable if your child does not receive the appropriate service. The children should not be kept waiting, never. Children mature quickly and let them wait for a year or longer is ridiculous, and we are here for such great shame. About 30% of the references to the station come from the region where the service has been summed up and the children in their hometowns were stopped. And the cost. Do parents refuse to take their children to this analysis because of expenses? 350 kids on a waiting list, ridiculous. One child on a waiting list is far too much, that is not to be imagined.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u237	Mr. President. I'm beginning to suspect. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson would like to join the European Union, wouldn't bet on it, but I think it's likely. But I am grateful to the members of the council who participated in this discussion and discussed the third energy package. To point out the same point, this afternoon's program 3 is about the third energy package, and it can be expected that a discussion will continue by day, so that everyone will be sure to find out what he wants. There was a couple of discussions last night and last night, and in the morning. So it happened that if I could put it that way, those of us who were in this discussion were receiving all kinds of telegram messages from people who were paying attention and there seemed to be more citizens, if I could say that, who were following this discussion than what was then. We were greatly encouraged and benefited by the fine examples of local delegates. I was in Sweden myself, in the same way. A senator mentioned earlier. In Sweden and Iceland, there's one big difference. It is not a government that is trying to set matters straight, and there is usually an agreement on the issues to take place, and that is why so - called speech code is unnecessary. What in itself drove me up to this chair today was that I heard in the news at noon narrative of yesterday's Day, the second with a Kingdom publisher who costs 4,000 million tax dollars a year, the other of the media who wants to get into the skirts of a minister of education and get a share in the money he had for his business. The report discussed that at 3:30 p.m., Presidential Conference Board was discussed. Now I want to assure the highest. The president sitting here, if it turns out today or at some later that there will be a brief discussion about the President's conference board, it is only possible that press media can find something news, and they know that this is not a brief meeting for President's conference board. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u238	V.E.G. President. That's a good reason to take it. Sæmundsson The word is "Seelmundsson." On the other hand, the reason why I address the President's chairman is totally unrelated to the situation. paritaprevir It was Sæmundsson's stone. I heard you were at the highest. The president made earlier comments on why. paritaprevir This is the son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, in the public address. I believe that the comment almost tied the threat of action, not merely because it included repetitions of indignities and defamatoryness. paritaprevir The son of Friðriksson also holds because he is being minimized by both members of the council's highest court cases. Committee of Presidency and Committee of Organizations. I think it's very peculiar. paritaprevir In view of all the history of the matter, the case of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, a senator of Pirata, is presented in this way, how much attention has been given to this and how these and other charges have been answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u239	A respectable president. I'd like to follow the rules, but I understand them. I have to say, after hearing from the Committee of Moral Affairs, it's a matter of decision-making. Ævarsdóttir Þórhildur don't know what's required of me when I have to discuss difficult cases involving the use of other senators on the resources they have to get paid, they claim they've spent for Congress. I just don't know. That is an honest lack of knowledge on my part. A perfect man, I'm just not a respectable president. I can further appreciate what is appropriate for the meeting program, if not discussed. paritaprevir Björn Leví, Gunnarsson, earlier. A respectable president spoke to a talk. The senator, with the permission of the president: ◯Forsett, feels this use of the program is not appropriate. I want a respectable president to know exactly what he meant by what was not right and how we should approach the subject, which is that we provide members of the Parliament with the means of how they handle money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u240	I'm sure it's all right to be with the senator's wish, and I thank him for giving the President the opportunity to comment on this matter. Thus, as the Senate's work is completed, members of the Parliament are expected to communicate with another senator. They can direct a question or turn their case to another senator, a chairman of the Senate committee, or that is why it is the case with a member of the council. Then it is manners to inform the members of the council and to put him on the rosary next to those who have a word with him. That's what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is not. He used the part of the meeting to use the program to do things that were very unconventional about a second time. A senator. Ninety-three. According to Congress, if a senator speaks disrespectfully of the president of Iceland, or carries the council or minister, or any member of the council, grumbling or evading the subject, the president may take the advice that will be discussed in more detail. The president chose not to do so this time and to respond with tenderness, but he is not. paritaprevir In this case, the offer of the year's Ármannsson suggested that this article should be applied.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u241	President. In the article quoted by the president, the word of reproach is spoken. It's fine that the president did not use the article calling it a threat. If so, he would need to back up whatever the word may say. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's benevolence fell under the reproach of words; and speech is illogical, or accusation against, others. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson reasoned in his case on what basis he was speaking, at the base of his tongue. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson himself would have accepted certain things that Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson says would not follow the rules. If we are to abide by the law in this country, the truth is always a defense against the reputation of people. The truth is always a defense, and this is not to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u242	President. I thank the President for explaining at least why he made those words, that he thought this use of the program would not be appropriate. But according to the Senate regulations on this program, the activities of the council, it is stated, by permission of the president: ▪ Up to half an hour in advance of certain meetings, typically twice each full week of work, cr. 2 mg. 10. g., members of Parliament can make a silent announcement, a statement, or a direct question to the presidents of committees, council officials, or other members of Congress. So I think it's strange to approach this in such a way that it wasn't appropriate for the part of the program, because it was. paritaprevir This was the case with Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who was also discussing the work of the council. I can't see that there was anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u243	President's words are standing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u244	V.E.G. President. It is a joy to resume this important matter, which is important to all of us and will be even more important to future generations in Iceland. During the discussion conducted yesterday and up until the morning, the discussion greatly improved. Then they sought the reason that the government groups have recently taken their course in this matter. In itself, we covered that case yesterday, and I just want to cut down my knees. As mentioned at the outset of yesterday's discussion, I was far from having a good time with a good discussion this past week. That is why I picked up what I wanted to call a piece of gold from my discussion, which was here last week. I stopped for a talk. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir of the advance class. She did well to consider why her band has been busy in this matter and has stopped for a while. We do not know if that works beyond the vote. She closed her case in these words, with the permission of a president: ▪ My position is that we have arranged the steps in this matter so that warnings will surely hold in mind. In fact, we've not only got belts and shoulder ties like us in the forward party have put much emphasis on from the beginning, but we've come along, well, what to say, putting on a hairpiece, a pair of taste, and a new pair of shoes. Now, the person mentioned here does not quote Björgvin Halldórsson every day, but Bó had an opinion of such comments. They are, with president's permission: a new suit, the same voice. However, that is a very pleasant thought, this description of the class. I really hope that all the good men who have the responsibility to earn a living to draw pictures that describe the political situation in Iceland will be able to draw a picture of the advance group in their taste pants with a stick of hair top and new shoes. I think that would be a good suggestion for the fight. Mr. President. Yesterday, the words of Ármannsson, a lawyer, were quoted. He has given a warning that the third energy package will be approved. He says in a recent article in the morning newspaper, with permission from the president: At the same time, the General will agree to the third energy package and to commit Iceland to national rights to implement the national rights of the EU energy policy and to set a paragraph into the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems, which violates EU energy policy. Both initiatives in EU energy policy cannot be introduced at the same time and set a policy that violates them. So many words, Mr. President. I don't think it's incompetent to listen to men with this knowledge and experience. There are also other lawyers and wise men who in themselves have spoken in a manner similar to the Eyjol of a yearEyjólfur Ármannsson, a lawyer. I think we're just going to have to take time, either to postpone the case so that these tips and other tips can be reviewed, and it's possible to negotiate with us that the necessary warnings that have not been placed at this point are properly overlooked by the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u245	A respectable president. It's a good thing for you to do what you want. A senator goes back to the same psalms that he went to answer to the man who stands here last night when we discussed this because I just wanted to charge money. A senator again for an answer. In my question to what? I asked a senator yesterday if there were any experts who wanted to deny that the matter contradicted a constitution, that there was any chance that it would contradict a constitution as it is now, as it is suggested. Hv. A senator mistakenly mentioned the two blows. Scholars who have been mentioned here most often, Stefánsson Pálsson and the Friðriksson Hirst, but neither of them believe that this case, as presented today, is a constitution. That, in their opinion, is perfectly obvious. I'd appreciate it if I did. The members of the Central Party began to leave these fine men to be truthful here in a pit and stop making up their views that they have made absolutely clear that they do not have. There is no doubt in the minds of these scholars that this case is a constitution, as it is presented today. Hv. A senator, however, answered my question by another name, called Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, a lawyer at LRM, and quoted his article in the morning newspaper and quoted it again in his speech earlier, I noticed that it was not the case. A scholar of the YearEyjólfur Ármannsson, who had sent a review of nine pages, told me in my reply yesterday that I would study this review that I have now made. I cannot find in it the claim that the matter conflicts with a constitution as it is presented today. Certainly, it would have been if they had not been asked to do so. On the contrary, the comment in the review seems to me to be based on the fact that the matter is not correctly introduced in Icelandic, and hence the danger arises. Hv. A scholar of the YearEyjólfur Ármannsson Solomon is very strongly opposed and picks up a lot of evidence, as he might mean, but, in my opinion, a lot of misunderstandings, yet he is still being drawn up to various reasons against the case. [[The president calls.]] But as for this particular thing, proper co-ordination with the case, I still can't find a scholar who is willing to say that the case as it stands, as it is now, conflicts with a constitution, I can't álit ithv. The scholar of Eyjol, or else, of the Year's son. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u246	Mr. President. I'm so glad to hear it. A senator should step on deck, and we can continue our discussion yesterday. I'd like to call attention to something. Senator on report, dated March 19, 2018. This is a report by good scholars, Stefán Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst. Under the Controller's Count on State Authority to ESA, pp. 25 says, with the permission of a president: ▪ As noted earlier, most rules involving power production to ESA have access to infrastructure across borders and their management security. Such infrastructures, e.g. A cable has not been established here. This does not change, however, that a third pack of energy will not be recorded in Icelandic national rights unless it lasts for the constitution. Will the decision of the General Assembly on the possibility that national infrastructure will be implemented, but under these circumstances, the proposed energy supply would be tested to the ESA, particularly under the Regulation No. 713/2009 No authority is available to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, although it is true that the current legal code is not to be tested. So it has to be logical and indeed inevitable that a policy-making approach to policy-making agents that are already linked to the third energy package, and before the General Assembly agrees with the third energy package. Therefore, it must be refused to give a view of the terms related to the ESA that are not relevant at this stage, where the basis for cross-border structures will still be seen here on land, and therefore the General shall be able to accept the third energy package, whatever it takes to include control-based opinions on the power capacity to ESA.◯ I think it's perfectly clear to myself, and I hope that this is part of the question. A senator will turn to me. I will, however, improve the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u247	A respectable president. I don't really think that's quite what I'm saying. A senator does not understand the question, but this opinion is taken from March 19 as well. A candidate mentioned the matter before it was presented. The case was presented April 1. Then another opinion comes from the same source. The scholars of April 10th. It's the order of time. In that view the matter is presented as it is presented - a respectable president, I do not know exactly how I can be clearer. I'm not talking about the third energy package before the case. I'm talking about this thing as it's suggested. And that's what it says. Scholars say that there is no legal question that the route there is in harmony with the constitution. This is in order, a respectable president, and this is a fact. I don't feel like reasoning that way much more. In case of a moment. A senator may disagree with her, but he just needs to read this sentence or hear what I'm pointing at. It's not an opinion. The fact is, they wrote this on April 10 after the issue is presented and wrote it as no more. The senator quoted March 19, before the case was presented. This has been published several times. It brings me to my attention. A senator does not seem to disagree with my conclusion from a lecture on the subject. Also, the scholar of Ármannsson the Year's son that there is no evidence that there is any governmental doubt. He mentioned that if I fully understand that the authorities are made, they are here to meet that fact. That's the logic support. I can't calculate the evidence of this review so that the case as it is now, here, this matter of Congress, this matter here, a respectable president, I can't be clearer, I can't get a constitution. [[The president calls.]] I don't see any scholar who has said there's a doubt about it, let alone a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u248	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for coming in here and claiming this. That, in fact, is what it says. In the words of an Eyjolurhon of EyjólfurÁrmannsson attorney, which have passed away, by permission of the president: The Parliament's proposal must be rejected by the Parliament and announced to the joint EEA committee. Such procedures do not threaten participation in the EEA Treaty, fully ending in accordance with its regulations. Fear of such things is a dangerous partnership. A large part of the third energy package is not valid for Iceland, as the EU Energy Director and Foreign Minister have declared, and it is important that it be made up of the joint EEA committee. The Commission would hardly be able to find another sense, as the head of the Minister and Energy Manager, Iceland's ambassadors, Norway and Liechtenstein EFTA side and the representative of the European Commission. This would be the first time in the 25-year history of the EEA Convention, which the administrative officiating officer would be used, and the case referred back to the Committee, for the first time intended to transport Iceland's major natural resources to the national and regular activities of the EU internal energy market, which is not part of it. If I remember correctly, and what. Then a senator corrected me concerning what he mentioned from their April vision, Stefán the Már of Stefánsson, and Friðrik the Árni of Friðrik's Friðriksson Hirst, was the next sentence as he read: 'Where she is, she is not without blemish, i.e. this method he specified. That's enough for me, huh? Senator, in my confidence that this matter needs more attention and be absolutely certain that it is not in the Member States' constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u249	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. A consideration of the vast number of reports received by a foreign - language committee on the basis of this introduction will call to mind the importance and concern of the situation. I think about 70% of the information that happened to the committee is negative about the introduction of this energy package. I'd like to mention the Union of Garden Prayer. There is severe opposition among gardeners to the induction of this energy directive, and this should not be surprising. There was a very good conversation yesterday, at the time. paritaprevir Ásmundur's Friðriksson, about the gardening and the tremendous opportunity she has here in the country, if the rights are to be handled. In this regard, we can understand the concern of garden farmers because if they continue to look at them, then all the speciality will be taken after the commercial exchange of Icelandic electricity in the large European economy. I'd like to get it from the bottom of my head. A senator is not reasonable in assessing the impact of society on the various sectors, the effects of this induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u250	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has met his own nail right over there. Not only has the Organization of Garden Prayer declared great opposition to this package of energy but it also has bakers and others. We put it this way for those who were not awake until yesterday, to say that a certain mutant was to be found here at the General Assembly were men, i.e. Yeah. Congressers, telling Icelandic garden to encourage the growth that I take heart to, with the same people, would be working on a case that will impair the possibility of the same articles for growth and maintenance. I think it is, in the highest way, what should I say, unnatural, or distasteful even, that men should preach in the second word to increase the way of gardening, but at the same time to break off the foundation by bringing this package of energy. I couldn't agree more. A senator's need is great. Of course it's a pact proposal. It's always better to discover why they put this on a Senate resolution instead of a bill. Men rule out the President, men don't have to estimate the cost, etc., i.e. According to these laws on making a donation, it is only here with vague ideas about the other and, as many as many of them do not have an opinion, including this, that farmers of the garden are left in pain. Therefore, it is essential that a careful assessment of the economic impact this will have on the various classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u251	Mr. President. Thank you. A good answer from a senator. It is perfectly normal and justified that important articles on the gardening industry should know whether support will continue to be restored. That's not in the way. It is an article that has tremendous opportunities, producing a wonderful product on a global scale. With all our energy, we have every opportunity to become the chief of the nations to produce high quality products, such as garden farmers produce. It is therefore of great concern that the effects of this directive on such a branch as gardening have not been evaluated. You really understand the concern of the article about that. Of course we should use domestic energy in domestic production. Unfortunately, it is clear that there will be plans for sea cables to become reality - it will come, it is only a matter of years when it arrives - the price will definitely rise to garden farmers. It is the law of supply and demand, of the market, that where prices are highest, the product is sought. It will be the exact same thing with gardening. Thank you. A senator for the talk and for his suggestion that on a journey there is a proposal for interpretation. Thus, there is no cost-evaluation analysis, and there is no impact on the natural induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u252	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to draw attention to things I couldn't do yesterday because I didn't share in the garden discussion. But that's exactly what you're talking about. One senator says that there are potentials, in effect, unlimited. There is one subject I would have discussed yesterday if I had participated in this discussion. Yesterday's discussion revealed that young men have gone through a field growing wassuabi root, a very expensive and valuable product. But it also came out, not too long ago, Mr President, that there's a failure to harvest. What does that mean? This means that the price of a gram of vanilla is as high as the price of a gram of silver. So, we have a chance, Icelanders, to grow silver, or its equivalent, by cultivating a vanilla, if we thought boldly and thought about the road, ignoring that there are more vegetables than peppers, tomatoes and pickles, with great respect for those products. I'd also like to point out, Mr. President, in this context of how risky men are taking in bringing in this energy package. In recent years, young men have also found themselves struggling to move out in Denmark, U.S.A., which sells at very high prices. But now they're not getting enough, they're not making enough production, so every opportunity is open to them. But as soon as you're arguing it in one word, you're pulling the basis for this production by pulling in this so-called third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u253	Mr. President. I'm going to go back to my final talk, where I was discussing the legal warning and other related things that I didn't get through. I made a statement in that speech last night that by the United States government, the words were actually empty. You cannot introduce the European rules on energy, in this case the third energy package, but the other is saying that the rules do not apply here on the country. They are not both released and held. You can't have the cake and eat it. And although individual countries give some notice, they immediately drop their own laws and test them if they go against the European directives. This is similar to if a town government in a remote community concluded that traffic laws would not go into effect in town because there would be no road there. Of course, the driving law will be activated as soon as a car gets to town, and it will not matter what the town government's opinion on this point, even if the mayor of the district had agreed that the local government did not fit in simply because there was no car and possibly no road. And even if some member of the government visited the local community to believe that the traffic laws could definitely not apply there because there was no road that everyone could see, it does not change that as soon as some incident occurs in this community that can relate to the traffic laws, the law is activated. As soon as there is some disagreement, someone's idea of pointing to the traffic law in some case, this town government will immediately discover that it cannot escape these laws. Then the cold reality of the town's population, despite its declarations and agreements with the town government and the good comments of the different people, will not go unnoticed by the law. As soon as the first driver gets into trouble, such an attitude will not be supported. After all, Mr. President, there are no warnings here. They are, at best, clever statements and only national bridges. In this regard, you may wonder: " Why is it that they have something to say about legal matters? Why is this being said? As I've mentioned earlier, this looks like some sort of verbism, and is most likely to dust people's eyes, that this expression of legal advance matters, which they don't really do. Could it be that such a wording was supposed to have been used to squeeze this into the nation? It won't. This is not really true, since it is either a means of bringing in a rule or not. If you don't, there's only one way to go, Mr. President, to bring the case back to the joint EEA committee. This method simply does not work. It will rise as long as it is not put to the test, and there will be no conflict, and no one will testify under the authority. While nobody's doing anything. But should we take that chance, Mr. President? Why don't we just wait and sit and take that chance when the EEA deal, 102. ................................................... There's no way to introduce a rule and then say at home that you're not going to do it. What kind of tractors are these? And it is also suggested that some men in Europe understand us very well and agree that no electricity can be delivered from Iceland unless a cable is available. This is an obvious fact. The way to keep us out of this energy package is to apply for the exception of the joint EEA committee which is the most natural thing in the world. That's the way, and she's in the deal. And so, by the way, when we're going to be in charge of the Canadian generals here last night and last night, we'll certainly use the 101st par. The deal. Surely we will when the need arises. And when is it necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u254	A respectable president. I'm gonna do another try to try to shed light on how these models work. They don't work in such a way that the EEA needs something to believe that these warnings exist. So it works that the Council agrees, I expect, a plagion proposal that commits Minister to introduce this package, these types, from the European Union. That body of interpretation will come to terms with Congress, and this is the interpretation that has been valid. According to the Parliamentary Directive, the warnings are presented, and they have even been presented in a draft of regulations presented to the job board on Friday. They're perfectly clear. The warnings in that synonym and the regulations have the same significance as the decision of Congress itself. It's the lawgiver here who decides whether these warnings are in place or not, not the EEA. They're about maintaining political coordination. They are not about what the EEA will do as a result. What will the EEA do as a result? What if we ask the EEA? Wait, we did it. [[The president calls.]] And the EEA said it had no meaning, which is obvious, until the sea cable has arrived in Iceland. There's nothing to press charges. [[The president calls.]] There is no way for the EEA to challenge these warnings. They're for our own judiciary system, our own legal system. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't a question. I was just correcting a problem. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u255	The president forgot to mention that at four o'clock. Councilmen wish to answer them, they will be reduced to one minute in both the previous and the second answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u256	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for meditation. I take it as a reflection, and I didn't realize that there was some particular question directly to me. I can't see, given thoughts at the moment. The senator, who, when the General Congress agrees with this synonym, promises that the Icelandic law will not go against this principle which the third energy package is and then follows some kind of legal procedure, as we have seen here and maybe something more that we haven't seen, and I understand that may be possible - if something in this law is against the principle, what is it but unknown? If we just speak Icelandic, it's unknown if we're not going to introduce it, if we're going to have something in our regular work that's going against what we've agreed to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u257	A respectable president. If it were forbidden to paint a house in red, it would not be possible to sue someone for painting a house red color that does not exist. There's nothing in 75.9. par. Regulation No. 713/2009, all of this havari is about official values and warnings, which affect Iceland by nature unless here comes a cable. Then the Constitution question comes back, and then I'll be happy to take that conversation again. In fact, the conversation begins to focus on whether these examples are the prime ones, which I don't think are necessary. They are mainly designed to address the concerns of the most conservative scholars, whose conclusions are based on the interpretation of the Regulation, which I disagree and can argue why I disagree and, in fact, think that if they did not already, they would be convinced themselves. But I'm not going to start making up some opinions different from those of others. The members of the Central Party who have been doing this for days here. It remains that there is no sea cable in Iceland, and as a result, there is nothing to report about 75.9. par. [[The president calls.]] It's just that you can't press charges. A decision cannot be made that cannot be made, and a translucency cable cannot be made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why there is no danger. There's a 0% chance that any created thing will be reported in this relationship until we put a cable in it and then we'll take back the discussion on what's going on and on the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u258	The president would like to remind the senators to give a speech lesson. This is a very short time when four respond, one minute each time, but the president asks that they respect that deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u259	Mr. President. I thank you again and again for this reflection. I object that I did what I did. A senator or other members of Parliament have opinions. I object, and I really want him to tell me when I've given him my opinion, if that's what he thinks. [[The scholars.]] I just love him to have his good opinions, and he's free here, and he's been giving them a series of talks, and it's interesting, of course, to listen to them. We simply do not agree in many ways. I'd like to repeat the example I took earlier about some community that doesn't think they have to follow the law because there are no roads. Should we, then, take that risk? Because no sea cable has been laid here yet, should we take that risk and make it unnecessary to implement outlets that are not relevant? [[The president calls.]] Why should we?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u260	--fast race on the moon?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u261	Mr. President. The person here believes that conservative experts are gold value. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council, which appears in an article by Eyjólfur Ármannsson, an attorney, says: A common understanding of the EU foreign minister and energy manager shows that because of Iceland's uniqueness with the electrical network, a large part of the third energy package has no value nor practical significance to the region. Due to circumstances in Iceland, it also says: ◯ Therefore, the special setting for Iceland, as agreed by the European Commission, is best handled by all unnecessary loads, for Icelandic conditions. It is unclear which special arrangements for Iceland were approved by the committee, but it is not to be seen in her decision. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he is any closer to what special agreement for Iceland is involved here, what is involved, and how is that affected?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u262	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for his inquiry. He asks about a joint declaration by the secretary of state and the European Union's energy editor, who has been repeatedly quoted in the discussion on this matter, asking how I understand it. I've come to my speeches so far in this sermon that I believe this is a friendly statement and it's worth no price, but it's of no value if the book is pressed. Of course, it has no value. And the principle, like other laws, lives a life of independence after it has been introduced or inserted, lives independent lives, no matter what people have expressed themselves somewhere in a town in some press or joint declarations. That is, at best, a kind recommendation. Of course, when faced with trials, a person reads the rule. If the regulations are commanded, they should do so in the right place, not in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u263	President. That's exactly what I wanted to get out there, and I appreciate it. A senator in particular for that answer. He's a natural man of law. That's why I'm asking. A senator making clear that this mutual understanding that has been discussed here, and we discussed some conversation yesterday whether he had been making a phone call or over sandwiches and sodas or coffee and wine bread somewhere - I would like to go for a drink. The legal value of such declarations when made. Yes, it is, in good spirit and kindly, but I would like it to be completely overlooked. The senator whether such a declaration has any legal value and/or improvement and if it can be explained as a legal explanation, e.g. if there were any lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u264	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for this question, which is pretty interesting. My opinion is that it doesn't have a legal value, that's the short answer. This is primarily political. This is suggested to calm the English political and possibly the Icelandic public and to use it for that purpose. When those men who met this declaration have completed their work and entered other activities in the future, this is of no value. And this has no value if those rules are tested. It is, at most, a modest guide in case of trial, that someone had ever said that this was his idea of this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u265	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and a memorable illustration it contained. In this discussion, there is a language that is loose in this discussion that is bound with a string of bands and shoulders. It's after what's happened. A member of the management team, probably from the forward squad, I don't remember who it was -- it's starting to add a ton of hair and something else for safety. But, in the face of any ridicule, this seems to indicate that the government and her supporters think that, following the induction of this pack of energy, the nation is at a high level, requiring a measure of disaster that calls for security measures. I think there's a little discrepancy in this. A great deal of effort is put forth to get this pack of energy approved, yet it is spoken in this way, belts, and bracelets, and all the rest, as if there were a certain danger. Eight o'clock. A senator of this discrepancies, or has he found a way to get it together?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u266	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The question remains to be asked by the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. I believe that the frequent declarations of government officials in which they are pointing out what is in their mind, talking about belts and bracelets, etc., are signs of uncertainty. As more people give the declarations, the energy editors and the committees and people from within the management system, that no cables lie here and this is not relevant here on land, etc., I'd expect it to be based on those who say, "Why are we doing this if this is not appropriate here? " Why, then, are people constantly talking about girdles and bracelets as if they were terrified of the consequences of the process?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u267	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There's another thing I want in there for the senator, and it's about the legal premise expected. True, it is in fact a search for this legal advance and it would be useful to find information about it if it might be found. However, in the synonym it is said that the stated Regulation, perhaps the most controversial, 713, will be introduced in Icelandic, but in a legal way, and that its transboundary laws will not be carried out until a certain event has taken place. I wondered, " Why? ' A senator is now a cultured lawyer. It is not said that the regulations of the Regulation, which should be obtained by this induction, will not be taken into account but that they will not be carried out. Well, maybe. A senator shed light on this? Is there just some verbism going on here, maybe to dust people's eyes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u268	The president again reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u269	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. This is what people may have been the most private thing to do, except for the discussion of the legal warning, that a certain provision or part of the rule work in the third energy package is not being carried out. This is what man has been passing over and pondering. But if the rule applies, of course. There are also many things in the principle that will not be put to the test until some incident occurs. So should we take that chance? Why don't we take the risk, by ensuing this, that there's some incident that we don't see today at all? Then those rules will be tested in some way that we are not aware of right now, huh? Senator. But the rules have been introduced and are in effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u270	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator gave a fine speech. I'd like to access a report made through a cable, i.e. Report of marine cable projects to industrial and commercial ministers since July 2016. It states regarding Norway, by permission of the President: It is estimated that sea cables from Norway to Germany and Britain will increase the electricity bill in Norway at a rate of $12,000 a year and at the same time, the income of rural society and the state will increase. In Norway, specific counter measures have not been taken to reduce electricity prices in Norway. I'd like a guess. It's for a senator. [[The president calls.]] Is it not nearly safe when the cables turn up that we will be in the same situation as Norway in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u271	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for the question. I have no intention of predicting the future. If I were, I'd probably have some other job somewhere else. However, it would be unlikely to conclude that if any product can be sold in a simple way into a marketing system, it would not be appropriate to sell it to others in a much less expensive way. The European Union's Contestant Rule forbids this. In this regard, it is true that there could be some difficulties in this country if that were the case. But I'm not close to seeing ahead in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u272	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that's exactly what we have to do. We need to look at the experiences of neighboring nations in this regard. That's the biggest case Norway has. Here we have the black in a report prepared for industrial and commercial ministers in 2016. It says that the cable has raised electrical prices to Norway's homes by means of several amounts. I think it's perfectly clear that the exact same thing will happen here. Governments then say: We have nothing to fear. We're not about to take a cable without the Generals' home. But the point is: Whether we like it or not, the cable will come and it is closer to us in time than many suspect. It's identified experts and land induction, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u273	Thank you. A senator for the question. I don't know how Norwegians think about their electronic resources, i.e. The falling waters. But I know and I can tell what. A senator that I know how Icelanders have looked at that resource in the last few decades. In 1969, when the use of Burgurous activation was initiated, force was raised within the country by five to six times and massive investments, which were carried out there. I would expect the reactions this issue has raised among the nation to be just because people have strong nerves for resource use, strong nerves for the nation's involvement in this resource, and for our benefit from that resource in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u274	A respectable president. Earlier today, the president and the president made a comment. paritaprevir The Leví of Gunnarsson's bear was right here in a pita: I feel that there is a lack of comments when it comes to the onset of total dishonesty. Congress on this matter, extreme dishonesty, which is only for technical reasons that cannot be called a lie. But total dishonesty. It's all very well to have differing views about this, to have differing views on the lyrics, and so on. But already it is. Councilmen act as if the scholars who have sent in the envelopes say otherwise were dishonest. They're putting men in a town that's not here to defend themselves up opinions they've clearly said they don't have. Likewise, these warnings are not found. They are both found in the report, such as why. Congress officials are well aware of and were sent. As mentioned here a number of times, it was sent to the job committee for the last Friday. [[The president calls.]] It's okay to have doubts about what's going on. All right, all right, all right. Congressmen do not believe in their legal or legal interpretations or anything. But, Mr President, please. At least members of the council are to be truthful about the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u275	Mr. President. I almost complimented myself. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before he was perfunctory or otherwise. But after this last talk, I will not be made naked to do so. But if you do. A senator has something to do with the program - on the part of the program - is about putting himself on the rosary and taking the discussion there. Discussing this as a matter of concern. You see, a senator present at this point did not agree with Presidential conference management. Of course, a man in himself is not supposed to get up and answer such a shit attack that's going to happen to this team, but I'm not. The senator to sign up and participate materially in this discussion that will appear here in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u276	A respectable president. I'll be happy to admit that I'm in a hot mood. However, there is nothing unusual about pointing to a person's being truthful, apparently false, that could be confirmed by reading the evidence. Don't believe me. There's nothing to believe. Just read the evidence and listen to yourselves. - A respectable president, I'd like to apologize for addressing members of Congress directly. In terms of the matter, I'm not here to complain about the case myself, and I'm on the rosary, as long as I can remember, and have participated in discussions and have tried to be perfunctory and to stick to the material. I'm going up under the conference team because I'm afraid of this dishonesty. I find it quite amazing if middle party voters get invited to some sort of rush. Their members resort to falsehood, and they do not let anyone in the city speak truth to promote their cause. It's a complete disgrace. That has nothing to do with the matter. That's why I'm gonna come up with this team, the President's conference board. Yeah, I'm gonna be really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, It's all right to discuss this matter, and I've already said it here and I've said it again: I like that it's talked about money, don't make any comments about it. I like it. This is a controversial issue, and the people have not yet fully understood it because the discussion has not been enough. [[The president calls.]] I respect it, and that's why I'm having a part in this discussion. I'm not to blame. But I insist. Senators don't come here completely cold and lie to their voters. This is not to their advantage, not to themselves, and not to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u277	Mr. President. It is not often that one is accused of being dishonest. I want to know exactly what it is that I, or with the members of the council who have spoken about these matters, have said that they are dishonest. [[Up front.]] I've been listening to what. A senator believes that much of what he has to say is interesting. If he thinks he sees all of this much better than the rest of us, he will just have to convince us, give us speech, and reason on it, and seek to convince us, not come up in the platform and accuse us of dishonesty. [[That's not the point.]] [[That's not the point.]] We're reading these data just like that. Senator, we are 24 hours a day trying to read ourselves into the Bible. [[No, obviously not.]] We offer new arguments in each new speech. I say so, by permission, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u278	The president has been informed that since not specifically addressed to a member of Congress, it is better heard by the president's conference board, if a senator is willing to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u279	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I'm ready to accept that. I'm coming on a speech chair to accuse me. I have tried all I could to keep this conversation on a grammatical level, to keep it to the point that we are discussing the matter in a material way. I've tried to stick to the evidence proposed to the Senate resolution and then to other evidence, which are either the comments or comments of a person that might be involved, as well as the reviews of articles on this matter. It may well be that I'm not clear enough of what I put forward, but I quite deny that what I've said and pronounced here is in some way dishonest, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u280	V.E.G. President. I was going to tell you first, that I've had a word with what. A senator who helped me, to be honest, a special exchange of words with regard to the Constitution and the ideas that exist now and the words that are contained in a crossword puzzle. So I don't think we're going out here on purpose with a lie at all. I think I can read in order to develop an opinion on the subject. I know we don't agree at all, but I really don't want to be on the side of something that's not true or that I'm out of order. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u281	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator would have put himself on a rosary to review his point, that the group here deliberately uses falsehood in the discussion, which is a rather serious comment. [[Up front.]] Presumably, it does. A senator explains where and how and points to an example there and gives evidence of his claim. If it doesn't, it's just a cheap fuck-up. However, it is very dangerous when politicians present themselves as rulers of the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u282	That's not what I did.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u283	We see examples of this, including. From America and beyond, the Philippines I could label. It is always dangerous when politicians think that they are agents for the truth but that others are lying. [[The president calls.]] But all of this is being considered where we are, in discussions, rather than in the President's conference board, which is not the scene for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u284	The president would like to point out that this scene, the President's conference board, has been used for various purposes. Whether this is the case, the president cannot directly judge but see nothing, based on the existing examples, suggesting that the joint was used in an unnatural or unconventional way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u285	Mr. President. A document that is part of the data of this case has been given much attention here. This is a legal opinion on administrative terms related to government sales to EU/EFTA institutions due to the EU's third energy package. This rating is dated March 19, 2018, and its authors are Professor Stephen Stefánsson, Professor emeriatus, Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, and Private Professor Stefán. It's a big interest in growth, but it's very careful that you'll see, it's very interesting, I'll let you say. Is there reason to encourage people, to form those who are following this discussion, to get the most out of it. The situation is this: Looking at this opinion, it can be said to a reasonable simple degree that it contains a possible conflict with the Constitution's terms and, on the other hand, the results of their introductions, as it is called in European English, will be considered and will be taken into account by those two factors. At least two locations in the ratings use the author's terms ◯ serious doubt in connection with the constitution. They say to make a photo in section 4.4, with the permission of a president: ▪... it is the conclusion of the authors of the opinion that there is considerable doubt as to whether any decision-making authority to ESA will be expedient at 8 p.m. Regulation No. 713/2009... is included within the regulations of the Republic of Iceland No. 33/1944.156 Similarly, the section marked 6.1 contains: ▪... believe the authors that [it] leads to the conclusion that there is considerable doubt about whether the power capacity to ESA rests within the Constitution. I assume that certain laws apply to the writing of such types of opinion are marked by the norms used in wording. Hence, when the words here appear to be such a serious doubt - not just doubt - but truly doubt - it is a matter of great interest. It should also be noted that the authors say that this is not the site of a sea cable: No authority is available to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, even if it is not to be tested in the face of an tolerated law code. I assume this warning, which is here often referred to as an action. Regarding the consequences of what would result from the induction of this energy package, this same point of view is discussed in the following panel that the agency will lead to an influence for foreign persons, at least Indirect, of the nation's organization, of the provision and use of the nation's energy resources. It's in section 6.2. It's all being handled, Mr. President. It is only natural that many people raise big eyes to read this statement, asking: Are we on the right track by introducing these types, this third energy package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u286	A respectable president. Is the Friðrik Áfnar Friðriksson Hirst and Már Stefánsson feel that there is a doubt that the matter discussed here is a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u287	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's not exactly the right person, I'm not in a position to comment on their attitude on one or any other subject. What I did in my speech was that I quoted, by permission of the president, in the best of their ability, and I allow me to tell a marquee, a statement of opinion, and that each of us can draw his conclusions by who they think is or may be their attitude toward the materials referred to there. I allow myself to come to my conclusions, but I don't insist that others agree with me on that subject. But I think it's quite clear. Their comments seem quite clear, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u288	A respectable president. I call attention to a review as a matter of course. The scholars of Friðrik Án Friðriksson Hirst and St. Stefánsson sent the minister of State on this issue, dated April 10, 2009. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has read that review?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u289	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to discuss this review, which he calls so, indeed, is this-- yes, I have, of course, read it, but indeed, this letter from these two men to the minister of state, and I take note of it in this letter, and draw special attention to it, that these two fine writers use it as a letter to correct what I have allowed me to call here in a few speeches and my discussion on this main proposal in a quoted opinion; they use this letter to justify it. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] This proposal includes searching for a price, based on a decision in the EEA Treaty itself, on the terms of reconciliation at the scene of the so-called Common EEA Committee, and thus the interests of the Icelanders in this great matter will be guaranteed in the back and before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u290	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson For his talk, the Ólafur of Ishoffrez is unreachable. I would take into account his speaking about a serious doubt, and I was referring to the very words of the scholars here under discussion. He spoke of what could have consequences when it came to organization, arrangements, and use, and those in late stages. I wondered, " What will we see? ' Counts 'em out. A senator who has not revealed everything? I've got a lot to ask myself about these planned changes, or at least a change, to the constitution that now involves the consultation mystery, and that's why I'm wondering about this. In the report by the scholars Stefán, Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik Fridek Árni of Hirst, the president said: No authority is available to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, even if it is not to be tested in the face of an tolerated law code. That's where they're highlighting it. A senator said earlier. I'd like to get an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u291	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. There are so many things interesting in this opinion. Hv. A senator referred to my contract here, saying that by creating this pack of energy, a foreign person is given a position to have at least An indirect effect, as it is said, on organization, disposition, and use. If you notice the words, they are clearly chosen with zeal: influence the organization, provision, and use of the country's important resources. If it's not a warning, I don't know what. But they feel that there is reason to sound even louder warnings. This is what the authors, by permission of the President, do when they address this agency of authority that attracts the organization and provision of the nation's important energy resource, say: By some simple means, you might compare that ESAs were entrusted with power to determine the maximum power in the seas. One realizes that such things are completely impossible in the minds of Icelanders. I believe this is the author's reminder that energy resources are a resource, just as the sea resources are available, and there is no way that Iceland would give power and sovereignty over the nation's resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u292	V.E.G. President. I'm trying to understand this, and especially their report. Those who speak for the packages cite this point. Still, it is not clear exactly where we are being led by this act. The panel, held before the government, states the President's permission: We'll be on the 8th floor. Regulation No. The 713/2009 recording of the EEA Convention and implementing Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. I wondered, " What does this mean in English? ' Well, maybe. A senator's answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u293	Mr. President. I think, at least. I read it this way, that this means that it is best explained by the example or the parallel that is drawn up in the rating, which I referred to earlier. What is said in this way includes making comparable decisions on the affairs of energy resources, including moving to foreign parties in a manner similar to that of foreign authorities, was entrusted with the authority to set maximum resources in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u294	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech, that was an excellent speech. What I wanted to come through a little bit. The senator is the wide range of reviews, I've been discussing the points here, which have received a foreign legal committee on this Parliamentary resolution to introduce the third energy package. As I have mentioned earlier, 70% of the reports are negative toward this directive and its introduction. One of the stakes that send in a review is the All-American Union of Iceland. The statement is that the Common Union believes that this case is a very controversial case, that it prevents the founding of society, as it is said, and also says that the founding of society like our electric power, the vast resource that we have, should be the exception of market laws. It is a responsibility to leave such shallows to the market - social responsibility on the part of the government to make sure that they do not. If it is realized that this directive will be introduced here by the government and its members, the Convergence and the Pirates, the impact. A senator that can communicate with the government and the labor movement? Now it has, like, one. It is reported that the Common Union is beginning to be concerned that collective agreements have not been established for the State. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator coming in only if he's ready to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u295	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I agree with him that it is a great deal of news that the Allied Public Association of Iceland, which has a wide range of appeals into Icelandic society; within its ranks, there are hundreds of people, and I refer to the long and grand history of which the Common Association is behind them in Icelandic society - taking such a firm stand that is actually a witness in this important society. Hv. One senator said that 70% of the reports were negative. I don't do too much of that to myself, but in some respects it may depend on who's turning in a review and some of that kind of thing. I notice, however, that those who have been here with the supporters of this energy package have said something about it, as if there were some vote among the lawyers, that it was just one opinion that had a significant comment, and where there was a great deal of anxiety on how they felt about the Friðrik and Stefán Már. I do not view such cases as terms taken care of. I believe that it is the headly duty of the Generals, who have signed an oath to the Constitution, that, of course, they should especially view the viewpoints that suggest that the most caution is shown and that care is taken to the earth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what it's done in the opinion of the Friðrik of the Árni og of Stefán Moas, and that's why I'm highly concerned with that view. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u296	The president reminds the senators to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u297	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator answered, very ill-informed and good answer. Hv. A senator is very familiar with these matters, as we have seen in his talks, and particularly in this opinion he mentioned, which is of great importance in all this discussion. I present these same concerns to you, as far as I'm concerned. A senator said, when it comes to these sources. I don't think I've seen enough of the reviews and how many of them are negative to the introduction of this energy package. I mentioned ASI. VR is against this, big organization, and talk about the intense response of stakeholders to this. When a lawsuit against this induction is presented, an intense reaction of stakeholders will be observed, allowing us to pause and think about what road we are going to take. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u298	Mr. President. Yes, it is very important that the labor movement has taken care of this matter. There is a time when such issues have many aspects, and it is only natural for humans to look at things differently. But I believe the main factors are to guess clearly. This recent discussion has also proved to be an extension of this discussion that much and I believe a number of opinions are still unsettled. In fact, this issue is not sufficiently clear on the part of the government. There are a number of questions that are open to you, such as to consider this legal advance, as it has been so many times. It's on the line, Mr. President, that this case is over the head of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u299	Mr. President. I want in this speech to direct my attention to the Southnesi heat system, a company whose name and rural areas in the South were owned, and the induction of a pack of energy alone and two resulted in the loss of their property rights to that company, and it went into the hands of a private person. I'm thinking that this is just an example, that this situation can come up, on the induction of a pack of energy, that in this country there would be a major privatization in the energy sector with the related consequences for the public and the social factors just skipped. It's very important in our oppressive and populated country, that everyone has access to cheap energy. I also believe, Mr. President, that this is one of the most tragic political mistakes that have been made in recent years here in this country when the CDC was sold. It is also interesting to consider the way this was done and the involvement of politicians or local rulers in it and the failure of declarations. Therefore, one might wonder, " Is there a situation that I think we will be in the same situation? That what the directors say here today, that the public does not have to worry about the case, etc., does not arise, and is, in effect, saying one thing in these matters and doing other things. So that is where, in the years of 2003, Smokeynestown begins to sell its property, and it was in the days of the Independence Party in the town of Smokey Town. Soon there is a concern that the dominant items of the heating system were also sold, while local representatives of the Independence Party in Smokejanestown take up the building and assure the inhabitants that they will not stand to sell the item into the hot - water system. This is 2003. Four years later, the same majority of independencemen begin to sell the item in the heating system, although they said that four years earlier they would not sell the item. The locals are told that they do not have to worry about this because the town will continue to share the current heat system. Then other rural communities start selling their parts along with Smokeytown, there were much smaller things, but, as I said before, the company was owned by all of Southnes. In all this process, there is no question of opinion for the inhabitants. It is similar to this, that the general public is badly informed about a energy package three, the implementation of the European Union Directive on the common market use of energy in the common European market. The public is uninformed on the matter, and in fact, no one is asked for an opinion. That's exactly what we can say about this case on the Southnes; there's no question about it. It continues, and always in the belief that good things are being done and that these things are not happening to the public. Another came during the day. Then, in 2009, Rhinestown sells the whole thing in the heating system, which is about six years after it was declared a failure to stand to sell the item. We just see, unfortunately, how politicians don't respond to what they say. I'm afraid, Mr. President, we'll be in a similar situation in this regard, that what's said here now, as I mentioned earlier, will not come to pass. I wish, Mr. President, to be put back on the rosary because I'm going to discuss this important matter, this discussion is certainly entitled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u300	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir As expected in the case of Birgir's Þórarinsson, he had a fine talk for him. That's how it's supposed to be. A senator who has studied abroad in international relations, and therefore I consider him to be obedient to his opinion of what has been said during the discussion, that it is impossible for the Icelanders to seek reconciliation because of the unique circumstances here. It is thus in our mind that we are not connected with the European electricity system, and in the same way that we are not asked for it to be done in the realms of natural gas because it does not belong to us, you ask why this route was not gone and why it is not possible to simply be done on the scene of the joint EES committee, which, of course, is the right platform, and in accordance with the EEA Convention itself, is the exception of the country from these requirements of the sealine and this institution. However, it suggests that the contract may be in a state of confusion and the great interest we get from this cooperation - that we would have to endure some consequences because we were looking for a specific procedure with the reference to certain decisions in the agreement itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u301	Mr. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson For good answer and very interesting. I've been thinking about this a lot myself. Hv. A senator mentioned international relations that are important in the field of international politics. A study of various literatures connected with international relations has resulted in small countries in the international field and in relationships with larger countries usually enjoy well - being. I think it may be claimed that to the great countries, they are well pleased. That alone tells us that we should be absolutely not afraid to ask for the matter to happen to this joint EEA committee. First of all, it's legal and contractual, that's a very important point in this relationship. But we have a strong cause, i.e. We are not connected to this common system, and that alone is a very powerful reason and an important reason to give us this exception. So the bottom line is that I think it's just the wrong place with the government and the government, what a good position we have. There's some kind of fear towards the party that, in my opinion, isn't necessary. Then I will stress that we have this contract that gives us these legal rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u302	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have to admit that you're wondering about it -- also because it's happening right now that it's 25 years since this contract was made and accepted, and in view of how hesitant those who are now in charge of this country seem to be in this case and in the meat business - whether these people would have felt safe, when the EEA deal was made, to ask for the great and large reserves that we have for our marine resources. Would that have been safe in view of the current language? I'm going to allow myself to say, Mr. President, that I believe Icelanders are very much in favor of participation by Iceland on part of their international cooperation. We are involved in international cooperation, we are founders of the Atlantic Community, founded at the World Bank and the World Bank. We went to EFTA, we are in the European Economic Area, and all of this is done on the basis of the national sovereignty. President Jón Sigurðsson blamed the nation for the value of free business and the great profit of voluntary business. This may and may understand Icelanders. That is why it is very sobering to me when it is done on behalf of some to support the fact that Icelanders are of course rights, and do not yield to the sovereignty of their energy resources, is almost as if the nation, that I do not threaten, that important business interests, as we certainly have of the European Economics, may prove to be in an upset state. I'm interested, especially in the recent education and experience of the senator, to hear his attitude in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u303	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very good answer. This discussion provides a valid question: What would Jón Sigurðsson have done? There's a lot of stuff in a big, big article that I encourage. A senator to consider whether it is right for him to write. He is a very well - known writer of the Icelandic language, and he knows the story well, so it's a very interesting point that I thank you for. A senator very much for bringing in. It is my opinion that this is a specific fear-silling year of EES negotiation. First, I ask: Where do governments have that information? Where do they come from? They must then give some reason to argue with this, as at the agreement of two parties who have the same right to look for solutions to issues and that right has never been used for 25 years. Then you ask yourself, " How could such a contract be upset when someone is able to do this legal thing? ' It's in my opinion, Mr. President, just a way to proceed. There's some interests in the back. We know that, but there are companies like Legion who strongly stress the fact that this is going through. I think governments are way too much under the influence of these people, who are benefiting from the fact that this directive will become reality and fear for some reason that if we receive this permanent release, the foundations of these companies will be slightly unveiled when it comes to energy sales into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u304	A respectable president. We're talking about the energy package. I was asked, after my last speech last night, if I were at the EEA Convention and being in the EEA. I'm not at all. The EEA deal has made us very good, and it's great to be in that deal. But what I don't like is the way and the attitude we've taken against the EEA. The number is quite extraordinary, and perhaps the most odd thing is when the Senate gets the results. It's usually already been negotiated, and it's a little strange because if it's true, this should be done as soon as the EEA contract starts, e.g. in connection with the energy package, and the agreement is being made on that issue, immediately coming to the State Department so that this committee could monitor what was going on, take their stand, and speak their point in the matter. It is impossible for members of Congress to arrive at the end of the matter when it appears to have reached the point where it cannot be changed. The second thing we're dealing with in this case, and I don't think it's really clear that we're talking about energy issues in Iceland being part of the internal market of Europe. That is why, with the permission of the President, I'm here to read from Article 4. about the internal power market: The European Economic Area (EEC) Convention has been part of its implementation since 1994. Energy is defined as a spare and therefore subject to free freight transport, which is part of the four aspects of freedom, while both the European Union's internal market (EU) and the European Economic Area depend on it. In general, therefore, energy, like any other product, is viewed as a competitive principle. In this regard it can be referred to in a paper with a bill to a law that became the energy law of No. 65/2003 It is simply saying that electricity is just another product. We produce a product like a fish, and we take it to the inner market, and then it, with our consent, has come to this inner market and is classified as any product. But we have not moved electricity into Europe's inner market, any more than we have. Gas. We're also supposed to get a reserve from the gas, because into the inner market we have nothing to do. If we've once agreed that the electricity has entered Europe's inner market, I don't think we have a chance to get it out of there again. She will be there, and the question is, Who is in charge of this market? There's no ESA, they're in control of this market, so we're out of control as soon as we approve. I don't think it matters if we put one or a hundred in advance, they don't count when we've nailed us in there in that inner market. It is said in particular that electricity is just another product on the market. What does that tell us? It simply tells us that we cannot control our guard. And to say otherwise than the power prices in Iceland will rise - it does. It did it to the first and second packages, and it will do it even more with the third, I'm not talking about the fourth or the fifth. We must also realize that once we have reached the inner market - if we read on in this four things. .., by permission of the president, there is a word that says: ▪ Although Iceland is not linked to the electricity market of other EU countries, it does not automatically mean that the EEA Convention's regulations on electricity trade are not relevant in this country. - It's just clear. A temporary area that operates on an electrical market is frequently involved in the product of electricity, which requires the rules of the inner market. There is some evidence that the rules apply only to linked regions or cross-linkings, which allow them to be isolated within the standard rules or regulations of the particular type. We were supposed to get a release, that's just plain plain, and then I'm gonna say, "Those who were negotiating for us, why on earth didn't they hold on to this? As a result, it tells itself that we should send this package back to the EU for a new contract. It is clear that a new agreement is a voluntary matter. I can't see that a state that wants to communicate doesn't want to negotiate something we don't like to get. Then let's just point out that the MMR survey through the energy package shows that half of the population are opposed to the third energy package and 31% supplied. Government supporters don't like him much, and less than half of them are in favor of being picked up on the land. What does this tell us? Then there is a quarter, 27%, of those who support the government. Just one fourth of those who support it are included. Then this government must also be pleased that its supporters are given what they want. I'm saying for my part that I agree completely with the people who say they're against the package because it's 98% of them, 91% of which are very opposed. That doesn't apply to Pirata, the Convergence, and Action. There are some 60% positive events there, and it's only normal because these people want to go into the European Union and are in favor of the European Union taking over us. We have to figure that out. I believe the European Union was founded at the beginning to facilitate business affairs, and I think that was the basis for it at the time that there was nothing to interfere with the deepest affairs of the countries there. But now they have entered all things, wanting to be without a cloud of authority over all. In itself, we're giving up power, if we went into the EU, on our own resources, sort of during our own Congress, we're just a little bit of a pack if we entered the European Union and I don't think our voice would hear anything there. As a result, we would have no success in getting things through. While we're in the EEA and we have a contract with the European Union, we're supposed to take advantage of it, and according to all, we have an equal agreement, so we have the right to negotiate on an equal basis. That's why I'm telling you very clearly: This is what's taking us into Europe's inner market with electricity that I'm not ready to swallow. I say for my part, as one hears of, there's always a new saying: I've got a little energy bite over this package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u305	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson's talk, which was meaningful and interesting. I would like to thank him for sharing in the discussion, and maybe to consider here that we have been accused of being a painter. Yet, it is true that after the last night, three different groups have been addressed here today, and while that is, this discussion would hardly be classified as a filibuster. Hv. A senator comes in and says he's not against the EEA deal. I think it's a monogamy here at the Congress Hall, even though it's felt strongly that it's our purpose that the energy package has been opposed to digging off the EEA Convention. It is true that electricity is like any other product. We know, after the induction of an earlier energy package, that electricity prices have increased. And it shall be so, though there be no other place at all, when it is well. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson has here at the General Assembly been one of the main advocates of those who are less fortunate, more economicly, in society. He has established in his speeches that all such increases, such as those we may expect to receive here following the induction of the third energy package, will affect this group, as in fact, all other groups, but perhaps much more with less income groups, such as the formation of micro- or elderly or disabled individuals. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this is how he will react to the induction of the previous energy package on the standard of life or to the purchase power of those groups and whether he can imagine that if the power to use at home increases - say triples, some say more, but stick to the lower limit - what it would do to these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u306	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Nationalization is the property of the nation, and land induction results in enormous sums of money. What I'm most afraid of is that the money goes and goes into my private pocket. I came up in the symposium earlier today to point out that 350 children are on a waiting list because there don't seem to be money to make sure that they get the right to what they have to do - which is, of course, wrong, money exists, but they're not in the right. It tells itself that if Iceland's electrical price triples, the people out there who don't have a knife today don't have enough food, medicine, or anything, in even worse cases. We need to realize that there is a large group out there that is on the lowest salary and progress of the state, far below the poverty line. These people live in areas where electricity launch is needed. I'm just saying, Guð helps them. What a terrible thought for the individuals to think that ahead there are big increases in electricity prices! We must also look at this in context because if the electricity increases, the resources, food, and other products of production will also rise. There will be, in itself, a much greater rise than the electricity alone, a chain - carrying rise in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u307	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. This is where the money in land induction, and we have invested in, is making money - about 1.5 billion dollars. In a year that land induction has been paying interest to government funds. A statement in the manager of the company shows that he believes that the company could easily pay $110 billion. to profit-separated State Fund in 2020-206226, i.e. We have arrived at this time when this investment to the long future has brought us this gain. How shocking it is to think that we are in that position! A senator says there are hundreds of children waiting for a full basic service, that we believe, with the health system we have here. We have young people who have been in danger of self - injury and who have to wait six months for psychotherapy, six months, to be concerned about harming themselves or even taking their own lives. What well is that? Yeah, there's no money in the state fund, and there's always money missing. But here we are watching that it's not just this. It is also a transport program, and it is the long - term health policy that just doesn't make it because we're in such a hurry to get rid of Landing, with our business that's making us money. Wouldn't it be closer, Mr. President, that we take this case and postponed it, if possible, that the government would take it back to its own arms and would refer it to the EEA joint committee? Or who thinks what's wrong? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u308	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. Yes, it says itself that we should set priorities in order. I'm on a health - care list, haven't found out there that after the matter was scheduled. It is evident that a matter can be taken away from the program. This matter could be taken away right now if there was a wish. But it doesn't seem to be. It seems that this case is to be forced through, no matter how. 120 billion, let us say that there were future incomes that came from land activation. There is money that we could use to get things right in the health system. I talked about the kids, 350 kids on the waiting list. There's more in the waiting lists two times a day, which is amazing. We can't even stop up the waiting lists. But what is also serious about this is also true of older citizens and adults waiting for all kinds of orthopaedic surgery. It's going completely gigantically ill-fashing people. There seems to be enough money there to pump into that medicine, but there does not seem to be money to cure people. As I say, there is a drug addict being made, and the weirdest part of this is that it's also being made by the government. It's been a lot that if you're on a waiting list for more than nine months, you're more than 90% likely never to go back to the job market. We must realize that we should postpone this matter. We're supposed to have a better time for it. We are to take on more important matters and discuss them carefully and carefully, making sure that we accept them so that we can really help those to whom we should help. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u309	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I agree with that. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson at the why. During the council, a senator has made a fine statement for speaking in terms of those less fortunate in society, desperate; he has done well that which is commendable. In this regard, I would like to introduce what men have claimed, those who are provided with the introduction of this directive, i.e. The consumer protection. A consumer protection is of great importance to those who have low income and even disability, which, unfortunately, are too low, and who find it difficult to support themselves, difficult to make ends meet each month. The important thing is that they can try to save themselves a few dollars in various ways. It has been emphasized in these halls that these energy packages have made it possible for those buying energy to switch sales. It has been claimed that this is such an important point. But now it is just that trying to change energy sales hardly responds to costs. For a normal home, the price difference is very low, or nobody, if I was going to change the energy trade. That's all the consumer protection there is. What I wanted from what I wanted. A senator provides the answer to the question of whether we are not here trying to enhance a little of the truth. Is that not what you're trying to do? Is that what you're trying to do? Hv. A senator will surely know that. His clientele group, his clients - knows him so that they saved large sums of money by changing power sales?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u310	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. No, it has been the opposite. The energy sales and the energy transfer have been cut into all kinds of parts, but what has caused the biggest damage and financial cost in those most likely to be the amazing directive we took in silence and silent. It's very costly and actually out of a map because, in itself, the good electrical price we still have, though it has gone up, would have cost us very little to keep our opera. No, we had to buy expensive bulbs that we're told should last for quite a long time. I haven't found the perv that lasts. No pervert I've bought so expensive has lasted longer than the old Gopher. What does that tell us? This, of course, is a decree from the European Union that we should have protested. This shows what I was talking about, that this incredible number of cases from the EEA that we get at the assembly, with the legal authority, has nothing to say: we're just to stamp it out. Why on earth have we not changed this system? What Age Are We in? If this is to be a communication and agreement, we must at the council or, to the minimum, a foreign matter committee should get the situation before they are finished and should be given the opportunity to do so. I'd like it to take place so that the committee would get it, then bring it in to the council, and we would take a controversial position on it, and send it out for comment. Then we'd like to sit down and make a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u311	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It entered this very interesting point that I don't think was mentioned in connection with this discussion earlier, the European Union's requirement to change light bulbs. That may sound like a simple thing, but it's just right around the corner. Senator, this has cost the public a tremendous amount. Maybe when the old light bulb cost 200 bucks. were these new perverts - they were at least but, in fact, have slightly decreased - at a level of 1,500 to2,000. Each person sees that these were huge increases. They were to include the energy savings they may have done, but in Iceland the energy level is far less expensive than abroad, in Europe, so the impact on us was not as high as in Europe, but the cost of changing a perpets is the same, and now these old bulbs are not available, much and for people who have little between hands. This is an example of, Mr. President, that we exasperate anything from the European Union in this respect without any proper discussion, without any observation of its practicality and its effect on us, etc. These are all the things you need to investigate and get into the basement. I mentioned the garden in my talk earlier today. Of course, research is needed and research is needed to see how this introduction will affect them and other articles. This is all pre-work to be done before we reach the point of implementing this directive. But that has not been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u312	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yeah, that's exactly what this is about, for example. The garden. Of course, we should have finished all our contracts there and we've got things fixed. We should have already made sure that, for example, those who are interested and willing can do so. Set up a greenhouse anywhere in the country, and therefore they should have a demeaning tolls and strongs to do so. There is no room for variety in farmers, especially those only in sheepfolds, and in areas where it is very difficult to maintain that decent income. There is also another incomprehensible point on the program later at the council. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disregardable People, is legally binding, not to come in and have first place in the council. This refers to the greatest rights of disabled people to whom they can think, and we are to validate the contract. We've finally validated him, and we're supposed to finish this kind of thing and legalize him. It's a case we should put in here as soon as possible. We are under obligation to make sure that disabled people no longer have to wait for the basic human rights they are entitled to. It would be perfect, Mr. President, to postpone this discussion and arrive, for example. The legalization of the United Nations Convention. I'm sure that no one in this councilroom would object, and I think most people would agree that it would be a great deal and a great deal to get on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u313	The President will request at the General Assembly's Committee that the processes of the EEA will pass through the Council are sent to the council. Senators have often received this from committees, but the president will request that it be sent to all members of the council so that we have exactly the squares for discussion like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u314	V.E.G. President. I am forced to give the only boring talk. Well, I've been a little affronted so far and I'm afraid I'm going to have to discuss the situation here with you on the European Economic Area Convention. It's been discussed a great deal with the content of the contract, and I can't protect myself because I have a feeling that there is not necessarily a full understanding of the content or content of the agreement, at least Not for everyone. In particular, this is discussed in paragraphs 7, 4 of 97. "Tr., 102." par. 103. gr. 104. . g., among other people, I am moved to read some of the articles that are of great importance so that we can understand how to handle matters, i.e. The induction. It's all right to the highest. The president came in to get into those processes. What does that mean when we're in the process? Seven. says: • Factors referred to or found in addition to this agreement, or decisions made by the Joint EEA Committee, binding parties, and being or being recorded in the national rights as follows: a. The product corresponding to the EU Regulation shall be recorded in the Member State's rights; b. a type corresponding to the EBE Directive shall give the Member State a selection of form and method of implementation. Ninety-seven. tells us how to make a decision: In advance on the principle of equality, and after other agreements have been provided with information there, this agreement does not affect the right of the individual parties to change national legislation in the areas involved in the contract: If the joint EEA committee finds that changing legislation does not influence the implementation of the contract, to the worse. - i.e. That if we put it in the law, in the right something like that, for example. Preservation affecting the implementation of the contract, i.e. something like the basis for cross-border construction has this effect; if the joint EEA Commission finds that legislation, as it has been modified, does not impact the progress of the contract; or if conditions 98th par. has been satisfied. 98th. says: The agreement can be added, as well as in the books 117, 9◯11, 19◯27, 30◯32, 37, 39, 41, and 47, as appropriate, by decision made by the joint EEA committee in accordance with 93. Why? mg), 99, 100, 102, and 103. gt. These are the articles that follow. It's all very clearly over there, how it works, the deal we care about so much and we're talking about trying to undermine it by giving talks about here. At 102nd. says, with permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. In order to ensure national rights and agreements of the EEA, the Commission shall decide on an Annex to this agreement as soon as possible after the Community has agreed with a new matched Community legislation, with the aim of enabling them to apply at the same time the legislation and the changes to the agreement. The Alliance shall, for this purpose, inform other agreements of the joint EEA Commission as soon as possible when it agrees with a legal warrant for a subject discussed in this contract. 2. The Joint EEA Committee shall evaluate what part of the Annex to the Convention of this new legislation will have a direct effect. 3. Contract agreements should do their utmost to establish an agreement on issues agreed on by this agreement. In particular, the Joint EEA Commission shall do their utmost to work out a solution that people can accept when they face serious problems in areas that fall under the authority of the legislazoned by the EFTA Act - which would be the type of solution that would be due to the authority of the EFTA Court. 4. If it is not possible to agree on the addition to this agreement, despite the application of the previous paragraph, the joint EEA Commission shall investigate all additional possibilities of maintaining a good performance of the agreement, to ensure that it is fully established - ◯ and to make the necessary decisions, including that legislation is comparable. Such a decision must be made no later than at the end of a six - month period. I'm just going to go over a story quickly, though it's important, and maybe I'll get back to this in his second speech because this is a very important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u315	A senator has the authority to try to complete this so that he keeps threads.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u316	Thank you. Then I'll start again here: Such a decision will be taken no later than at the end of a six - month period, since the case is referred to the joint EEA Committee, or at the date of the corresponding legislation, if that is a later date. 5. If the addition of an Annex to this agreement has not been decided by the European Commission at the end of an extension session set in Article 4. to take into account the implementation of the relevant part of the Annex, as specified in Article 2. mg, will be suspended temporarily unless it is decided otherwise by the joint EEA committee. This sort of delay goes into force six months after the end of the period of 4. mg, although not before that day, the corresponding type of EB is implemented in the Community. The Joint EEA Commission shall continue to work on an agreement on a solution that can be accepted by the members of the European Commission or the European Union to bring about chaos or to put everything in the attic. This is all about reconciliation, accepting viewpoints, putting people on some common charge as to what to do and what not to do so that the deadline can be retracted at the first opportunity. -...so that the deadline can be retracted as soon as possible. 6th The practical results of the deferral of 5 mg should be discussed. of the EES joint committee. The rights and responsibilities that individuals and business partners have already earned with this contract should remain. The parties should, as appropriate, decide what changes must be made due to the postponement. At 103 st. which is important in combination with 104: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. If the decision of the joint EEA can be binding only to the parties after they have met the administrative conditions, then the decision should be valid on the date mentioned in it, which is the law that it should be day, a date on the legal premise that will not be held, but it must be done correctly - ◯ If a special day is specified, that the part of the agreement should have reported to the other parties for the day that the administrative conditions have been met. If the announcement has not been announced, the decision will apply for the first day of the second month after the last announcement. 2. If the announcement has not been completed six months after the decision has been made by the joint EEA committee, the decision of the joint EEA committee should be temporary while administrative conditions have been met, unless the contract holder announces that such temporary recordings cannot occur. - That would be true in our case. --in the second instance, or informing a contract officer that the decision of the joint EEA committee has not been approved -- as could be the case here if we were to turn men -- the delay prescribed at 5 mg. 102. g., enter into force one month after the announcement, but not prior to the date, the corresponding form of EB will be implemented in the Community. At 104 st. says: In cases laid down in this contract, the decision made by the joint EEA committee should be binding on an employee's contract from time to time, unless otherwise specified, and should be made necessary to ensure their implementation and application.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u317	Now the president would like to ask the senator to continue his second speech in order to finish this, since he is well beyond it, probably the key points have come forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u318	Thank you very much. I just finished what I was going to do. So here is the recipe for the simple legal way that has been provided, a way that will be maintained. Thank you very much. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u319	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech was very good and meaningful. I couldn't agree more. A senator saying that there's only one way in this matter, which is permanent and is to be maintained, that is to handle the case for the joint EEA committee and get the permanent exception that is important in all of this. But what I wanted to do was come through. A senator is the government's guardians. There's been a lot of debate about this notice in this room. Here we go. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, in the pen, led a meeting board of presidents and accused the middle-class members, the members of the council, of the council, of the council, of handling these topics and including the rest of the group. In advance. He makes special notice in his report and in effect. Then will I say, Is that judge worthy of judgment against the judgment seat of ESA? What does it say, e.g. The scholar Baudenbacher, appointed by the State Department to perform a special report on the matter? What does he say about that? Does he agree that these examples are kept? There's so much paradox in this. We are being accused of misinformation and panic propaganda, etc. at the same time. But like a dog. A senator rightly points out in his speech just one way. However, the government decided not to go that way. They take a course of great uncertainty. This raises many questions, if any. A senator might come into it for a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u320	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's it. It is this understanding that I made the essence of my speech here, i.e. that we are aware that they are in effect. I'm afraid Carl Baudenbacher would agree with that, and he would no doubt build that point -- I may not make the man an opinion, but I assume that he as the former judge of the EFTA Court would judge by the European legislation. In my review of the European Economic Area Convention, I introduced these types to the EFTA legislation in this area and within the countries that have adopted them according to this agreement. So I think it's quite conclusive that what we started to talk about here tonight and when we started thinking about why it seems so much that people keep saying that it's all right to have this warning, that's good and won't make a comment to it -- of course, they don't comment on it because they don't have any meaning. No significance. That's the key to this. It is no problem for men who are political bound but do not bind lawyers or individuals or for those who might have legal interests within this contract because these local defences simply do not have any significance other than to atone for those who are provided with the induction of the energy package in advance of the Parliament's resolution proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u321	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him that those who have been represented by the government for this matter are in order to ensure its passage and to make an atonement for their homeland, such as. In the Independence Party, there is no meaning when it comes to handling the case before a court case that we will probably need at some point of the matter, except for the uncertainty of their significance, because it was never tested. This is just what is comparable to what I and others have mentioned here from a talk chair when it comes, for example. that the meat issue, so that we reread it, we bring in the EU food legislation in 2009 to ensure that this is not a raw meat that can then threaten our clean agriculture and clean farm stocks, we made a warning, just as it is now being done, and the one in charge is tied in a law called freezing duty. Any meat in this country should be frozen at least for 30 days. And what will we see? Yeah, the one in charge of the day ain't nothing either. He's legal. So it is claimed here that the prime officer of the report is in custody and regulations. [[Take it into account: and regulations.]] You're right next door. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. But what was the result? The chiefs held nothing, not legal notice in the meat business. Do they think that these watchmen will come to think? No, I say, Mr. President, it's just a saying that I thought men had learned from. And going this way only shows that there has been nothing learned from experience. Of course, it is very sad in such a big matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u322	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Yeah, I like that this discussion deepens and deepens, and now we're coming to an important point when we discuss that we'll probably remember at some point having to look ahead. I had an interesting conversation with a State Department representative yesterday who claimed to me that a law - trained representative was most unlikely - of course, it could not be claimed - that because of this induction, we would reap a lawsuit. Because the most common proverbial terms we face are spoken of by misintegration, such as in the raw meat. We made it wrong. We set legal warnings, which, of course, were not allowed to be done, and he did not think, and we were again made to do so. But why would this fine employee say that it would be most unlikely that we would be involved in a lawsuit? Yeah, probably because we're doing the whole thing according to the directive. We'll just bring her in. These models are for home bridges, they don't mean anything, they don't mean anything. Pussins come in here and line up for us. It is clear that this is of no value. I'll eat my hat and my staff if this isn't so grown up. I have to say, and I've been standing here before and saying that I understand why men are going this way, but I understand that now, they just want to get into it, take the energy package in with their heads and their tails and swallow it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u323	The president would like to point out that the extent to which he authorized the earlier, of a well - kept talk period, so that things could be better delivered, since this discussion is long, does not seem to be under the laws of Congress, and asks the president of the other members of Congress to apologize for it. It would have been necessary before the discussion began, if any of these were to be done for distribution. Clearly, it's only 95 degrees. ... andthe president is thus forced to hammer the bell as usual. Of course, the senator is not to blame. Mr President is sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u324	A respectable president. I still want to thank you for everything. For the experiment here made by the president because I thought it was excellent, to ensure the harmony of the production. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þorvaldsson Þordirsson for an excellent speech and, in particular, especially good, perhaps in part because she was allowed to appear as a whole instead of being torn apart. But I feel as if the senator had experienced at the beginning of the discussion that he, after presenting the material, sense that the alleged warnings are even more at home than we had experienced at the beginning of the discussion when this clear route is available and capable. A senator did, and then when considering the procedure, he did so. There is a board game where one of the maps they could draw if they landed in a bad place was named ◯ Get out of jail - Freeard, reminds me of, by permission of a president. [[Foreground on: You don't get a 2000?]] - That's right, you're not getting a 2000. Living up to it. Senator that the officers represent any of the government groups of any sort which is fully capable of getting out of jail - Freeard, which is no more meaning than to be primarily to pass through the next obstacle, which is fully and without warning, regulations 713 and 714?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u325	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason very much for answering. Yeah, that's what I'm looking at. I would very much appreciate it if one of the followers of the energy package could see of their time - they're going to work at all - to come here to the conference and disagree with it with the values of evidence from a scholar who will refute these articles of the European Economic Area, which are the law of No. 103/1993. I'm afraid there's some sort of models here that just don't belong in this deal. They're just not expected. That is why no one has been able to bring up all this talk in the public talk and point to a court order that has been held. Granted, the officers have been put in charge, but they have been retreated with them, as we well know, by Icelanders. Well, most of the things we get from ESAs are due to wrong induction. But if we introduce, as stated in the Parliament's decree, the regulations in the Icelandic language in the standard way that we are not breaking the introduction, we are not breaking the introduction. On the other hand, if we are going to take advantage of these warnings, we will be making a comeback. That's for sure. I think maybe that's the point. If we examine these articles that apply to this treatment, we will conclude that these warnings are simply designed to appease the backlands of the classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u326	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the answer. This reveals the situation we've been in so far in our discussion. Despite having asked the environ men of the energy package, the induction, from the government categories, to make a total statement to us, no one has shown up. We have offered them the quickest opportunity to appear before all members of the Central Party on the rosary so that they do not have to wait. But no one's coming. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Þór Þorvaldsson noted earlier that people have come to the point of not wanting to be caught up in anything. Latest news is that the minister of foreign affairs has come to be on leave from Congress, probably in some business because of his foreign office. He's not coming, I presume. The head of the State Department hasn't been here very long. I wonder why. paritaprevir Þór Þorvaldsson believed in me that a possible explanation for the absence of the members of the state's members for the discussion is that none of them really want to find themselves in the position of having to speak for these alleged omens? I can tell myself that I didn't want to be in the position of defending the praiseworthy deception in view of the information being presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u327	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. This Convention on the European Economic Area, this document - these laws are presented in a very logical order. 7. The point and principles of the agreement, which I quoted above, are about how we're doing with these things. Then there are the other articles available for decision making, i.e. how we will make decisions if there are differences or differences. The articles 97/102, 103, 104, and according to other events occur. Hv. A senator asked if I thought the management members felt that they were coming into a tight position. Yes, indeed. Hv. One senator said that he would not want to find himself in the position of being made backward. I can understand that. But I say for my part rather I'd like to be in the position of being corrected, and having the manners and manners to walk back, taking one step back and holding my dignity, but running on on the ground that I didn't want to be turned. This isn't about breaking. You can bend, but you can't break. It's not about who's right. It's about what's right, what's right for the Icelandic nation, what's right for us at the Council to do and how we act by the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u328	A respectable president. In my last speech, I explained that I was going to take the next talks in trying to frame some questions related to looking ahead and ask: What then? that this rule of action is in place. There is a point in this case that I would like to bring to the attention that was discussed in the morning report on May 18 of the past, which has to do with EU regulations, a regular task that brings forth to the nations an invitation to serve on the rights of innovation. I'm going to quote briefly on that report in The Morning Journal that says, with the permission of a president: ▪ A new form of water spills owned by a state, and a community for electricity production can mean that there will be a new agreement at the end of a contract. [...] Have such agreements already been made to privateized companies, but the agreements will in the future also be done on the rights of public power companies. The circulation continues: In 2016, the National Institute of Observation, EFTA, ESA, announced to the Icelandic government that laws requiring the marketing price of the use of natural resources in public terms with the aim of producing electricity. It also stated that all relevant contracts would be revised so that the remainder of a contract period would be paid by an electronic company. To this I do, at least, no comments. Of course, it is normal for an enterprise, whether in a private company or in a public company, to pay for the upcoming rights of resources that they then use to make themselves valuable. However, it may come to the point that I especially wanted to draw attention to, and it is again referred to the Morning magazine by permission of the president. This turns to the obligation of an invitation, and then begins the reading: However, when the new agreements ran out of place, a dispute between more Member States and the European Commission arose over how to renew the contracts and announced to the Commission on March 7 that it had appealed to the treaty violations against Austria, France, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Britain and Italy for not going to open invitations of waterfalls and related water sources. - I'm going to repeat this: To continue with the Evening Press report, allowing the president: The 2006 service directive and the 2014 Public Shopping Regulation, however, have been based on the EU Commission's appeal on the 2006 service directive. [...] Therefore, it can be concluded that the current water use agreements with public companies such as Landactivation and ECU will be implemented at the end of their contract time. Of course, these charges are based on something other than the so - called third energy package that we now deal with. But I would like to draw attention to this; the European Union's institutions have quite a tendency to go as far as they believe they can, in fact, control of the national internal markets as they can see. I ask: Can anyone think that a similar approach would not exist in Iceland if we could open the European Union's clear way to national energy markets? I think it would be interesting to hear from supporters, amateurs about the introduction of these rules, how they envision the answer to this question: And then? for these rights to be implemented. So that all persons come in the way described here. Are there no worries that arise from the European institutions of this sort?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u329	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. That's exactly what I'm talking about. This is a bit interesting, for on the English tongue it is sometimes said: 'The Devil is in the dark,' or the devil is lying in the details. It's just that, open an invitation. What does that mean? That we are obliged to go to open invitations of public-own activation initiatives, i.e. Who owned the nation? Does this mean that everyone can reach the invitation? Yeah, I guess so. But does that mean that the government can choose to accept any offer or reject all? I want to pray. A senator is concerned only about that. Does this mean that we really have custody of initiatives? It's been reported here that people are worried about this. Well, we have the resource, but do we have custody of it? After all, do we have custody? I wondered, " Is the wording in the European Community legislation and the agreements we're working on, whether it's a coincidence or an error in the way letters fall? ' I don't believe in it. It's all about the EU's goals and policies. I'm going to go through this in my second talk, right now, and then what? However, as it turns out, I would like to get the senator's speculations as to whether this open word could involve something more than at first sight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u330	A respectable president. Now, I haven't had any diagnostics of this yet, and that might be what we've been calling for, with members of the Central Party who have been in this discussion, that the government groups, or the Ministers who represent these matters, have to work further assessments on the issues of doubt. From the knowledge I have--and I don't think that I'm the strongest on the ice in these materials, but when it's appealed to a contract violation against the seven big nations for not going to the opening of the new water flow rights, I'd think it meant in the Icelandic context that the open invitation would apply to all parties, government and private peoples, in the whole EEA region. I can't quickly see how people are going to narrow it down much according to what they have to do. So I think we've opened up to some extent in these subjects. But we are to take that road, as it were, to make sure that we do not open to it any more than the word is. But I'm afraid these things will always be interpreted in the widest possible way when it comes to Iceland's energy markets after the completion of the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u331	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the answer. Yeah, that's what's been discussed. So it is said that private and private and we have, or at least I have access to it in my speeches that I understand the assumption in Europe that the principle of action being placed around parts of the third energy package and about consumer protection applies on the continent where the resources and activation initiatives are already private property. It's to prevent an abnormal market compression, a giant company called a lubal, and we can honestly wonder here whether a nation such as Iceland can actually compete with a giant company, an oil company, such as, for example, Exxon which has even Brussels base, which has a balance sheet potentially larger than the national balance account. And there are other companies, energy companies, who are enormously large in the market. Does a senator believe that it may be that we may be in a position where we may be in a situation where we may be in such a harsh race, and soon we will be in a position where we will have personal resources? Despite the fact that the third energy package says we should do so, there may not be anything to say, but that it is not possible to do. Well, maybe. A senator may come into the matter only if it is possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u332	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. In some way, it is often a case that seems to land on an assembly line of some kind and then into some single - course block, where everything falls in the same direction. I have sometimes taken an example that in 2010, I was deeply concerned that there was still a plan to severely squeeze to the Watermies Airport and that I was taking steps with the ultimate goal of getting rid of it as soon as possible. The answers from trustworthy people were that I had no need to worry about that. The whole place would be a new place, all the banks in the country, and no one would be thinking of moving an airport or building a house anywhere. At the time, however, all the preparatory work was being done, the officials were doing their work, and the airport opposers drew ever closer to their goal of being decomposed. I think such issues as this, in energy markets and energy planning, which say personalisation of the present and so forth, are very far removed from the public in length of chapters. The claim is that this will go on the autopilot of the government system. It's today I'm afraid that to a large extent, the order of action will be adjusted to the European big environment. Of course, that's why we're in this fight here, the middle-class members and women.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u333	Mr. President. As this discussion unfolds, though the main theme is the same, new surfaces continue to surface as if we were wearing a complex die. Men of great experience have expressed themselves on the subject of these developments. It is noteworthy that in the Morning Press today a fine man who has the greatest experience in political development in Iceland during the past few decades is Styrmir Gunnarsson, former editor, over what has been going on and faced by members of the government. We've been talking about quite much, the members of the Central Party, that we in itself do not familiarize ourselves with these people and their declarations and their classes since then and before. Styrmir says, with the permission of the President: It is interesting to watch the members of the board these days while they are waiting to raise their hand with a pack of energy 3, many of them against their own conscience... And it goes: ▪ Most of the Assembly members remain silent, for they surely realize that they may be raising their hands by wiping out their party. Congressmans of VG seem to live in some sort of void, suggesting that they no longer know who they are or where they came from. And finally, Styrmir says: The members of the Independence Party are sharper than any other. But their behavior suggests that they do not realize that there will be a day after that day. At least they seem to not interested in being reimbursed from party companies and voters. It is true that they know that even though they have the votes in their hands at the Council, there are others who have them outside... This, Mr. President, is quite a word. When the men of this CaIderer, if I may use that word, Mr. President, speak of as much a matter as it is here, you must have thought. But it is not to be seen in members of the board, virtually none of them have been involved in this discussion to any degree. There have been insurmounting in here, but in other respects, it is a form of the Council's work day for this fine rush. Councilmen. They will no doubt use the time to write articles and send e - mails during this discussion here in the Senate Hall. However, far from being a member of the council from this discussion, and that is what Styrmir may be saying and saying, suggests that humans are unaware of the time of their visit. It has been claimed, Mr. President, that a smaller section of the U.S. Congress has taken over. It should be realized that behind this smaller part of the United States Congress, there is more of a voter in Iceland who doesn't want to see a pack of three. We've been able to find the last few days that there are plenty of people watching the broadcasts from here on the General Assembly as a night. We have received encouragement from all over the country that, in the middle of the night, indicates that voters' interest in the country is far more than men realize.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u334	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's frazzle for his meaningful speech. I can't stop myself from thinking about it for a while. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in here, apparently now that members of the council are in the house, they avoid taking up the hot fire, even a discussion of a recent case. Today, stones have been rolled over that were not discussed in the previous discussion about this synopsis; matters that have not been discussed here in the light, let's say, while people have been in the house. But now we're talking bright and people are in a house, but people have come to the place where they probably do not want to be questioned by what is happening more than the word is. I think that's very, very sorry. I think it might be possible to make some sort of Japanese door in this case, so to speak, i.e. A door in the back that could be backed out. It would be the fact that this case would be postponed. I think there's some good evidence in this case that we can't be sure that this, as it is suggested, we can't do this. Or what would a senator consider? Can a senator say if he believes that people are in position today that pride has become stronger than pride?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u335	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Yes, I can agree with him in that Iceland's endemic customs are endemic, that I think that politicians have a hard time confessing to themselves and others that they're wrong about something and therefore they're ready to do something else but they're on their own. We'll see this in a lot of pictures. We can see this, for example. the desires of those who want to build a hospital in an all - out area. There's no one standing up and saying, "Hey, excuse me, good people, we made a mistake. It's nonsense to keep doing this. We start a new place. This could have been done a year ago, but it's getting harder now. This means we sit up all the time, i.e. The people, the people, with costly mistakes that cannot be undone. I can agree with that with what. A senator who waits, as Styrmir Gunnarsson puts it so well, after raising his hand with a pack of energy against three consciences, it doesn't seem to dare or can or want to come out and say, "Hey, it's probably just a bunch of crap for us as it is right now. Maybe we should think about it. Maybe we should postpone the case. We should try to find a deeper solidarity. As I said earlier, we should try to introduce it to the people who are going to sit down with the aftereffects. Neither does anyone, as Styrmir rightly says, wait for the contract to raise his hand against his better judgment and against his conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u336	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, whom I thank for the answer, was not in a church hall earlier when I gave my boring speech. I read law No. 2/1993, i.e. Act on the European Economic Area. Ninety-seven. says, with permission of the president: In advance on the principle of equality, and after other agreements have been provided with information there, this agreement does not affect the right of the individual parties to change national legislation in the areas involved in the contract: if the joint EEA Commission finds that changing legislation does not have an impact on the implementation of the contract; or if conditions 98th par. has been satisfied. It is that these modifications should not affect the worse of the contract. The contract, of course, is about energy, the flow of product, etc. If we put in advance, it must be an obstacle, and it is in perfect style with what comes somewhere else, that business obstacles must not be placed. This law text written by the European Union is not a humor. It is not random how these things order down. This is in perfect harmony, and many read over by very powerful jurists. I think it's important to realize that 98th. says: The contract can be added, as well as the books, and are specified by certain numbers - ◯ as appropriate, with a decision made by the joint EEA committee in accordance with 93. Why? mg), 99, 100, 102, and 103th, respectively, that are the articles on the treatment of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u337	Mr. President. Thank you. Because in great modesty and humility, I sometimes feel that those who claim to be the greatest supporters of the EEA Convention, what I'm supposed to say, do not have the same respect for him as we have had in this discussion. We've just talked about the EEA deal, not as if it's untraceable on a shelf that can't be inhaled and not shined, but, not like an ancient parchment that can't be touched by white gloves. We don't see this deal that way. We look at the agreement as an arrangement, i.e. An agreement between two parties equal to their credit. So, as soon as we honor this contract and its contents, we also want to have the courage and courage to take advantage of the options we have, the Icelanders, to influence the way our contract works for us and the developer. It's like they're divided into two corners, i.e. Those who are not spoken of, and so do the others who are spoken of as it is, i.e. ... thatthe EEA deal is somehow untouchable. It's like when you were visiting old aunts back in the day, you weren't allowed to hit the china because it fell out of the shelf and could break. It's like someone looks at the deal somehow. As soon as this contract is used, people will stumble to think that they have hit a mismaton somewhere on the wall, and he is on his way to the floor, and everything will be in stew. That's the whole point. There is nothing more important or insignificant than the fact that it is a work of men. It works that way, and we should know what we want to get out of the deal ourselves. But it's like they're afraid of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u338	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I have only listed in my earlier talks the many comments that have been received by the Foreign Affairs Committee on this matter that show that many people are concerned about the matter. About 70% of the reports are negative towards the introduction of this energy package, the European Commission on the common market energy sector in the common EEA region. What interests me is the unions I've only mentioned and had a word with members of Congress that they express concern over this. Vilhjálmur Birgisson, chairman of the Acdérian Work Company and vice president of the All German Union of Iceland, said, on permission of the president's office: I am convinced that these packages of energy are a guide that, as a nation, we slowly lose and bite our right to the most important resources that are the energy resources. There is a great deal of truth in this from the labor leaders because these steps are being taken, one step at a time to this common goal. The next step will be the likely transponder cable, and now we have nothing to say on these matters. What brings my attention also to the matter is that former ministers have expressed concern over this and have expressed their opposition to it. These include Davíð the son of Oddsson, the Guðni of Ágústsson, the son of Hjörleifur Guttormsson, Jón Baldvin the son of Hannibalsson, Jón Bjarnason, Páll the son of Pétursson, Sighäath the son of Björgvinsson, Tómas Ingi Olrich, and Algmund the son of Jónasson. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator on this aspect of the matter when so many ministers express concern over the matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u339	V.E.G. President. That's an onion tip for the dog. A senator and a man should think that those who are now appointing the classes that are about driving this package through the council would listen to men with experience, men who were involved earlier, men who even came up with a pack of energy. These fine men have come to this place I described earlier that it was so difficult for Icelandic politicians to adopt themselves that they have seen it for themselves now, all these good men, that what they did before, i.e. Loading packages one and two, didn't work as they thought. They regret it, and they say, as did an elderly lawyer whom I witnessed last night or night. He said, "Let's face the fact that creating a pack of energy one and two was a mistake on our part, don't talk about loading a pack of energy like we did. So now is the time to get down and correct this mistake once and for all. I think the fine gentlemen they named there are right there at this place. I don't know if it's supposed to describe what I'm supposed to say, a combination of arrogance, feelings of inadequacy, and the inadequacy of those who are now controlling the categories in which these fine men were in, that they don't listen to them. Heavy - weighted in this case may be the best in what happened to my former father, Ögmundur Jónasson. A senator and a chief. The minister for the left movement ◯ green supply said in Eastfield Saturday: This class is supposed to be: The movement adverts. [[The president calls.]] Because there is neither left nor green left in this category. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Those were his words. Those are heavy words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u340	It's directed to the president. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u341	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer to that question is, How did he explain this important point to me? There are numerous former ministers who express deep concern for this matter and how it has been held. It contains, for example, Former Secretary of Foreign Affairs and one of our chief specialists at the EEA Convention, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who should be known about the agreement and have been very Europeans today. He describes his concern for the case and describes opposition to bringing in this package. I remember that I was at a meeting where these cases were being reviewed, where he was among the delegates. He just stressed that there was never a discussion at the beginning of this EEA contract that the energy issues were going to be part of it. The same with the agricultural policy, which shows that the EEA contract has changed very much since its establishment 25 years ago. Actually, it's not the same deal. That, on its own, is a argumentative move for the permanent discharge within the EEA Committee and there for the management of the situation. First, we are not linked to this common market. That, on its own, is a natural high priority for having an exception and then for what I mentioned here, argument number two, that it was never intended to be in the contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u342	V.E.G. President. As I told you earlier, it is completely incomprehensible that those who order these divisions and other categories should not listen to their old leaders with all this experience. In the same way, for example, you find it amazing. The members of the Independence Party should not listen to the present and former editors of the Morning Press who strongly warn against this. Because it is in itself that this agreement, such as the EEA Convention as a whole, is such a much like a viscous syrup. He passes, and he spreads himself over both areas and lands in some way that it does not seem to be possible to escape. This is what I'm saying because I have a map of Europe with this fine story I've just read from, where you say, "If you pour syrup in the middle of Europe, it'll flow out naturally and over without anyone apparently getting it, However, this is the case, and that is what we have had in this discussion all along. If a person wants a conclusion that is convenient to him, he must have the courage to stand up to himself. If they don't have the courage to stand up for themselves, no one else will do it for them. This courage is as good as I say, it's not hard to find now, it's but little now as it was last time we Icelanders faced a massive foreign espionage in which we had to stand up for ourselves. [[The president calls.]] The government of that time was heartless in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u343	A respectable president. At the beginning of my last talk, I had proclaimed that the next time I would discuss the situation in Norway, the third energy package and how it could affect our position here. However, I did not have time to finish considering the subject of that talk, i.e. The development of the pan-European energy market must therefore be made use of this speech but enter Norway's post in the next. As I mentioned, however, Europe's energy market and its development are one of the main priorities of the European Union, one of two of which I would say, as well as try to process the financial crisis and lapp on the euro. The rest are the energy issues in which the European Union is involved in major internal problems. There is a lack of linking the market and as a whole, which, in the opinion of the Union, is very important in the exact same way to the financial system. They consider this to be a major factor in their plans for the future to make all of this grow as much as they possibly can. However, the European Union must keep its declarations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That's where they even have them. Accepts the Paris target, which must, in fact, be said to a respectable president, that even if UN self - analysis is made and all were concerned with what they have promised in the Paris Convention, it would have little effect on climate developments. Anyway, they want to strive to fulfill their promises in these matters. However, it is of interest to consider that in recent years the United States has done just as well and actually far better than many European countries in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Why would that be? Yes, mainly because the United States has increasingly moved to burn gas to produce energy rather than coal. Of course, this is something that concerns Iceland, on the one hand, because we've already received an access to energy. And what was that about? It was about natural gas because we weren't producing and exporting them. However, there is a strong chance that natural gas can be found on a very significant scale in Icelandic jurisdiction in the Dragon area. The research that has been made there suggests that it may be, in fact, oil and gas, but much more gas. It is not impossible for Icelanders to become gas importers, let's say in a more predictable future. Nevertheless, the gas was given an exception. Why not provide the same kind of access to electricity produced by the renewables already available? Of course, one fears that the European Union does not realize the importance of moving from coal to gas, we have seen some examples of this, but it is such overemphasis on getting into energy that can be defined as a renewable wherever it may be felt that humans would not be willing to give out any of it. At least not if the Icelandic government is not applying for it firmly, and as a result, people take a light bed, or even enjoy a little bit of what the Icelandic government is about to do now by what has been called the praiseworthy warnings, the glorious deceptions, by the European Commission's supporters, and by making sure that these are just declarations to home bridges, and the big plan for the integration of the electricity markets, and the linking of environmental renewable energy can therefore be achieved. Because we have also seen that when it comes to large political goals in the European Union, it wants to achieve its own ends. And even if there are relatively few things in the European Union, such as the example of frozen meat, in such cases people may be able to resist legal warnings, actual legal decisions, in order to achieve the objectives of the relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u344	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The victory over Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, for an extremely good talk that will be related to my next talk, that is what we will see for ourselves. But in his speech, the senator mentioned those warnings, such glorious warnings. I think I'll have to come into this business only, since two members of the management team are in the room and only a law called the Icelandic Convention on the European Economic Area. It's been said that if we do this way that we're talking about, everything will get upset. But when reading this document, the document in any way, when it comes to handling, is all about doing it in peace, even if there are differences, and even if we have to send it back to the Committee, it is all about doing good and reaching the conclusion that everyone can find pleasure in, i.e. That if we don't think we can introduce this type, as men seem to agree on, we should do it this way. I'd like to get a point of view. That's for a senator if we look at the 99th grade. In the European Economic Area Act, it says, by permission of the President, in Leviticus. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ During the period leading to the decision in the European Union council, parties, in the continuous process of information exchange and consultation, should consult one another on the common EEA committee at the request of any of them at all critical times, on the way of final decision-making. So it can be referred back to the Committee. It's not a final decision to send this back here to the province to lift the government's preconceived warnings. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u345	A respectable president. I consider it to be that the sentence at every turning point was a fundamental factor in this inquiry, which, in fact, brings up a point that I wanted to discuss further in a future speech, i.e. The best way to strengthen the EEA community. But first, what? In view of my words earlier, I believe that it is quite safe to put things in perspective by pointing out that the same must apply to cooperation between entire nations, even national alliances, and, in its smallest form, in the case of two individuals. If there were differences e.g. Among couples about how to interpret a particular point, it would not be reasonable to simply let it go, and then to mention that you would want to do things differently, that would be a fall to combat the relationship. The same applies to the EEA contract. If we begin to look at the agreement in such a way that it is not even safe for us to use its positive and important provisions for conversation and cooperation and finding a solution, a process of reconciliation, if we begin to view any use of these clear principles as in some way dangerous and can cause us to be punished for it, we are first putting the EEA deal at great risk and setting up an example for the future in which the new opinions become more difficult and more difficult to discuss matters and talk about solutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u346	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The European Economic Area Convention says in 93. ... withauthority of the President's permission: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The Joint EEA Committee appoints representatives of the Convention. 2. Decisions between the Community shall be agreed and the EFTA countries, which say one voice, however. If I look at those words, it can't be that one of the EFTA countries would step out of the way and make an all-other voice. It is a direct separation in the European Economic Area Convention that this is done so that everyone can enjoy it. I would like to interpret this article as if it were impossible for us to put this notice, as it has been over and over again. No one has been able to come here and show us that there is a warning that can be put on notice, and then it can be passed because they are only for home time. The warning given is not to be disturbed by politicians'statements because they are irrelevant. They will never be a stumbling block to the introduction of this package. By permission of the president, says 97. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: In advance on the principle of equality, and after other agreements have been provided with information there, this agreement does not affect the right of the individual parties to change national legislation in the areas involved in the contract: if the joint EEA Commission finds that changing legislation does not have an impact on the implementation of the contract; or if conditions 98th par. has been satisfied. [[The president calls.]] If this does not interfere with the implementation of the contract for the worse, ergo, the premonitions are... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u347	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u348	A very impressive president. Yeah, I'll agree with that argument. A senator, in fact, who is of no importance to the keepers, is at home, even being an illusion, as it has been pointed out. On the other hand, I draw out the beauty that lies in what is offered to resolve such matters. It's one of the most positive deals in the EEA that they can offer it as a dog. A member of the Parliament described earlier, a way to resolve differences or issues in which certain Member States feel that induction is not appropriate. There is something very contrary to the fact that when the government, which at one word claims to be guarding the EEA Convention, does not trust itself at the same time to use these of its most positive factors which are just about to solve the situation, to ensure that equality between the parties of the agreement and not to be involved in a particular one, a country. And they've put this into context with the EFTA countries and have even claimed that Iceland only has to submit to Norway's administration in these matters, because the Norwegians consider themselves some kind of Iceland's superiors to this cooperation. It is natural, too, if they were to admit it, they were to destroy this cooperation, but there is no reason to accept such interpretation. Despite some government officials in Norway may be highly Europeanized and would argue that these positive aspects of the contract are new, applied, I allow to say that much more of the Norwegian public is the opinion that if this agreement is to work in the future, it is necessary to make the most of these provisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u349	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. We know that the market of energy and energy companies has consequences. This directive goes on to indicate that we will be participants in this common market area. When a cable arrives, we have entered this common market area. The question is, Does this apply to Icelandic conditions? It's interesting to review a talk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. When introduced at the time, energy pack one was made, he gave a special party to the State Department. In that opinion, the President's permission says: The energy directive does not have anything to do with Icelandic conditions where an isolated energy market, a geographic situation far different from what happens in continental Europe, as well as many other factors such as social, historical, and environmental elements, make it necessary for Icelanders to have full independence to choose their own ways in these areas. The market and the privatization of the electricity sector have given the least reported differences in the number of countries in which it has been tried. It says in a special mask. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon when a pack of energy was created. You wonder about it, and it's good to have a reputation. A senator of that, what has caused this conversion of the left green in this matter? That's a complete turnaround. Left greens voted against an energy package one and two and opposed the market of electricity. Then they'll do everything they can to set this up and run this case through, that we'll be participants in this common market area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator who has a lot of political experience would find it interesting to have his thoughts on what caused this great conversion in this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u350	The President still reminds us of a time limit of two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u351	A respectable president. That's a very interesting question. I think she's calling for a little entrance from me. It was very interesting for me to read this opinion of the present president, w. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son, and can join most if not all of it, for energy is not to be part of the EEA agreement as the father of the EEA deal, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, has identified. True, the contract mentions energy issues in the accompanying documents. I think it's about 141. The parties of the agreement, but it was quite clear, as Jón Baldvin and a lot more have noted, that this contract was not expected to be a source of energy. On and on the other hand, the Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, which seems to be the case. A senator, has built his food. We must be excited to hear a speech from the present president, w. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, about this third energy package. And there may be some answers to that question. A senator will turn to me. But in the meantime, while awaiting the crucial talk she must must have made, I think that it would be determined to assume that this is still another result of this peculiar government group group of members from right to left, who, in fact, never revolved around anything but to switch between the Ministers, were never about any vision or policy, but about which cabinet members would receive and receive their chairs, the members, their members here at the General Assembly, and their party members as well as their delights, regardless of whether this government was going to follow any course or to proclaim any future vision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u352	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator on this. How important it is to recognize the causes of this conversion! I agree with that. A senator, of course, is shocked. A senator and president of Congress, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, explain why he has changed his mind. I think that's pretty clear. There is much talk about strengthening public trust in the work of the Generals and not helping. The current office manager of the Generals said, that I recall, shortly ago - when asked whether he was not concerned that trust in the Generalis was so small and what might be the key to improving it - that it is primarily in that politicians, senators, and ministers are in line with what they promised and would have said. I think that's exactly the point. It's a complete conversion to his case--and now I'm taking note to the highest. Mr. Speaker, please. paritaprevir Steingrím J. Sigfússon, has given many very powerful talks and is a very powerful speaker and convincing - but these talks he gives around a pack of energy alone and two are among his best talks. Hence, it is surprising how such a change of heart can be made and without further explaining it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator rightly mentioned. Of course, members of Parliament and Ministers owe the nation explanations for such changes in important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u353	A respectable president. Yes, it can be said, but I'm telling you. Also, a senator's speech differs greatly from the way he speaks that way. A senator named, Stigrim J. Sigfússon, the current president of the Generals, and his former allies, co-alienates in the Common Community, and the Left Forces of Green Available, men like Ögmundur Jónasson and Hjörleifur Guttormsson. Now the difference is that they're outside the government, those two of the latter, but I'm not going to argue that if they were part of the government, they'd want to support this case. I allow myself to believe that, in view of the strength of their logic, and based on the vision of the left movement's green offer, which they strongly point to, that they had not overstepped it. I allow myself to assume that these were men - and indeed so many more former politicians who dare to express themselves honestly on this matter - in the government now, they would not let this happen in this way. Because the power of Jónasson son is specifically mentioned, it may not be impossible to recall that he proved at the time that he did not give up everything he did despite being in government and even temporarily left the government for that reason. At that time, it was boring to hear some of his associates say so, staging it, so to speak, that the ruler had ousted Ögmundur Jónasson because he had not trusted in the need for health care. We knew now, I think, most members of Congress, much better at the time, knowing that this was based on a prince's stand and that it would be a wish for more current ministers to approach the situation in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u354	Mr. President. In previous talks on the European Union's third energy directive, I've discussed some topics, including the administrative premise with which Iceland and I have established the implementation of the Regulation for the joint EEA Commission, and the plan is to be lifted by this synonym as discussed here. Mr. President. Also, I've discussed the legal advance, or it may be more correct to put it into words as if I've discussed the legal advance that the management have picked up to be in place or put on the case so that we here in Iceland will not be bound by the rule of the third energy package, not by a certain part of this rule. Also, I have discussed in the previous articles how ridiculous it is to introduce the system but, at the same time, to say that we are free of it. Then I have considered the purpose of keeping the nation up, so that we can escape a rule that we still agree with at the same time. What purpose does that serve? I have also endeavored to show how useful the fallwaters are to the United States soul, and much less how useful that resource has been, in fact, the most powerful policy of civilization. Mr. President. In this talk, I am interested in linking this up in time as well as in how great progress has been in direct contact with the early history of our Icelanders. The progress has been marvelous, just in the last 50 years. As the facts are examined, it becomes clear how easy it is to identify the context not only with progress but also with the life - style, the improvement in public interest, progress, the building of all the hands of infrastructure and major steps in all aspects of life. Thus, our activation history is short - lived. At the beginning of the last century, forward - sighted men began to activate the force of water, which all around them went unscathed. This was initially done by a great lack of tools and tools, and often it was a long way to get knowledge. But those men did not give up. In 1904, one of the first to set up a water supply station was Jóhannes Reykdal, who had a carpenter repair shop in Hafnarfnarfjörður and connected the electric generator with the water wheel that drove the machines, thus producing electricity used to light up the shop and other hundreds of nearby houses. Jóhannes was not alone in this interest. Many worked to do the same in their countryside. Thus, the use of the town brook was before many others. One of the authors of the Thomsons was Bjarni Runólfsson, Hólmi, just west of a village monasteries. Over a period of 12 years, he set up 31 home radio stations and 116 such in his relatively short process. He spent most of his time in 1927,1937, which had set up a number of electric stations in Skaftfell Countys. That was the case in those years, in 1920, also built an electric station on the Buddhist River at Húsavík. But the first major activation, Mr. President, can be used the word for activation that today is very small compared to the major contractors we have built since that time, is the activation of the River of the River in Reykjavík of 192 megawatts, which was then the longest major activation. Then there was a long interval of 16 years, until activation of the photoactivation procedure in the South, with 16 megawatts remaining in that country. Of course, it was the biggest activation of those times before the war. The salmon - year station in the North, which has been in use gradually, is today with a force of 27.5 megawatts. Then, after war, there are many small inducers, such as Screech Falls'Induction, Andalkil, Perpetation, the largest in its time, 1953, with 48 megawatts. [[The president calls.]] Then you can continue to count, and I will continue my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u355	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for an excellent speech. In the introduction of his talk, he discussed the European Economic Area and the Multimedia Precinct. I have entered into them, both in speech and in answers, and yet I am not finished. But the European Economic Convention contains a lot, including... chapter 3 refers to Act 3 as the solution to issues. 1 1 1. says, with permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The Alliance or the EFTA countries can challenge the interpretation or application of this agreement for the joint EEA committee according to the following guidelines. Two. says: ▪2. The joint EEA committee is authorized to resolve the issue. It should be provided with all the information it may need to perform a thorough investigation of the case, with a view to finding a solution that can be accepted by the individual. - Big emphasis, as shown in a case. paritaprevir The sails of the son of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, are at peace. For this purpose the joint EEA committee will investigate all possibilities to maintain the successful implementation of the contract. Counts 'em out. A senator may wonder, though, that the European Economic Convention is in a very strong way that we should take the course he makes in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u356	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the questions. You wouldn't think it would be over a rocky road to bring this matter back to the European Commission. In view of the wording as slow as possible. A senator read up earlier, saying that an agreement can be made and sought to negotiate, should not be difficult. And especially not according to the announcements that have just been made by governments, that the leaders and the rest of them in Europe understand such well the position and specialness of Iceland in this case. Then it should be the simplest and easiest thing to do, I suppose you'd think. And further than that, you don't understand this fear that man has by going this way if there is a European Commission of energy to understand this well the attitude of Icelanders. Why are people afraid to go right there, to submit their arguments, and to meet the understanding that will be there, and then to be granted by the rules or regulations that have been largely disputed, perhaps in conflict with the Constitution, with the surrender of power to the international institutions, as we have discussed so many times?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u357	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, now it is, so I haven't been reading this article over and over again. There's a direct separation in the contract that we're going this way. Hv. A senator comes in to the fact that we were right to go this way and that we would get understanding there. I would like to quote package IV, g team, number 1 XII. An Annex to the Convention, which is a very vivid example of our meeting with the joint EEA committee. It reads, with president's permission: ▪ Despite 40th par. The agreement and the content of this Annex is permitted to continue using the oceans in force to sign the foreign rights and/or property rights of non-EU Member States in the field of fishing and fishing. Two. says: This head should not prevent foreign investments or citizens who do not have legal homes in Iceland in communities that are only indirectly involved in fishing or fishing. However, national authorities have the right to commit enterprises that have been bought in part or in part by foreign or state citizens who do not have legal homes in Iceland to dispose of investments in fish industry or in fishing vessels. I have to say, if this isn't an example of EEA's firm agreement on Iceland's special status, then what? It discusses our resource, control and processing which is completely comparable to the case we address today, perfectly comparable. People here are talking about political adventures. Here's just a live example. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator's ability to make things clearer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u358	Mr. President. Yeah, the deal seems to be there - and thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Thordddsson for this thought and question. This can't be any clearer. That's where it's at. It's in the contract, it's in the law and it's obvious that we should go this way, of course. I can't remember another case -- I don't have long experience as a senator, but I can't remember another EEA case since the introduction of the contract that has been so much discussed at the council as this, but it may well be that somewhere, even if I don't know it. But now, right now, is the opportunity to use the terms of the agreement, as well as, as I have repeatedly pointed out, because it is claimed to be very understanding by the European Union and the EFTA countries, and there it points out, for example. in common declaration by the EFTA countries that certain aspects of the package or of the Regulation are not valid in Iceland during such a time, as many have shown, that we are not linked to the European Union's common electrical market. They think they're going on this legal route. I just want to reiterate that it's something to be done. Words have been heard from government officials that, if necessary, they will indeed do so. When is it necessary? There were words said here yesterday, that men would not hesitate to search these paths if necessary. Now we think there's a need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u359	Especially a respectable president. Thank you. A senator for yet another fine speech. He was only involved in a case that he made quite a subject of his first speech, which is the history of the energy issues, especially with regard to Iceland, and their relationship to national sovereignty. Some would say that this was excessive romance for a boy. A senator and an excessive national kindness. But I don't agree with that, and I want to hear why. A senator's concern is whether there is an precisely strong link between the emphasis of previous generations on possession of fallen lakes and their use, the production of energy in this country, and the economic achievements of the country and the extraordinary success of Iceland's citizens, to improve the standard of living. The history of Iceland during the Commonwealth period is almost unique in the rate of progress. Well, maybe. A senator concluded that this emphasis on energy and its use was very important, not just romantic; and that energy is and has proved to be the basis for almost every other area of work? Finally, energy is needed to drive the job around, create jobs, make valuables, and thereby ensure a better standard of living in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u360	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The question and meditation were raised by Davíð Gunnlaugsson. It was going to be my next speech, exactly what it was. A senator was asking about, i.e. linking this to the community over the past few decades, since we will begin to activate the fallen waters gradually for the better of the people. It started small but grew, as I entered my first talk. I say, and will argue in my second speeches, that strong ties, tangible relationships, are present with the urban history of the country and the development and real survival of the settlements; i.e. that the activation and construction of the distribution system have actually contributed a great deal to the preservation of the country, in the scattered regions. And also for the job structure. Almost all of the republics have had enough work, with few exceptions that do not last long. It is primarily, in my opinion, responsible for the activation of the falling waters. Of course, the community has more strong foundations, such as fishing. But this is a major factor, and maybe we haven't fully opened our eyes to the extent to which this is involved in the whole story, and maybe we can connect it even more fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u361	A respectable president. I'm glad that you did. A senator would agree with my interpretation. But is it not safe to believe that others, for instance, to form in the European Union, focus on improving energy status, are aware of this fact too, the interaction between energy production and other valuables? Does this not mean, then, that in view of the effort of the European Union in matters far less important to the relationship, and some have been cited in this discussion, that in such a big interest, the foundation for so many other activities, the European Union will be on the move? And as a result, we are doomed to throw away the defenses we have, the defenses that the EEA Treaty guarantees us all the while we don't give up?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u362	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the second question. Yes, that's exactly what I planned to do by making it up and will do it in the second speeches. I'd also like to point out the mental relationships I think are between. When such a small nation, which can almost be called a national population, has been established in 1960 when we were twice as low as today, taking major actions at their time standards, building up distribution systems, and selling energy for a great deal of effort, this would benefit the generations that would then exist. That's the thoughtful connection I'd like to promote in my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u363	Mr. President. Thank you. The public speaker, the historical lecture he gave us regarding the small - business projects of Skaftáre, and the basic work there was, which is very remarkable and shows what man has been forwarding to the fine rural society and that part of the country. I wanted to ask you what. A senator in this regard: Is it not a concern that there is now a growing number of requests and applications for microinvolved and activation options? Is that not a concern of nature? Now it is Spanish to see that the group leading this government, the left green - one of their hallmarks has been environmentally environmental, and they have taken care of the environment. At the same time, they are implementing this energy directive, which involves preparing the soil for what should come, i.e. to participate in this European market for electricity. They're taking one step and they're taking quite a step by this induction. Then all the soil is ready for a cable when it arrives. This, on its own, will contribute to the production of more electricity in the country, probably through the environmental impact. I wanted to think about it because of it. In this regard, a senator mentioned minors, whether they consider it a concern that the number of activations will increase greatly in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u364	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the sake of his questions and meditation, the Birgir of Þórarinsson was the source of his request. He asks me if I'm concerned that the small activations may be increasing. I wouldn't answer that question with a yes or no, but I'd like to point out why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson recently asked a minister for a number of grants published by the Council to investigate and build and install such activations below 10 MW - there may be also large activations if they are up to 10 MWs because these minor inducers are mostly below 2MW and even the vast majority below 1 MW. If such inducers are built largely, small inducers that may have a profound impact on their environment but in a small way provide a small amount of energy, it needs to be examined on a case by case basis. Perhaps I would prefer to give a warning that such permission is given in few hands. I think it's too much to be expected if a person buys land systematically in the eye's aim to activate all the streams and sprays found in a designated area. Of course, it can be very convenient for the distribution system if energy enters certain locations where users are short, but it can strengthen distribution systems very much if such activations are built even if small.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u365	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I may not in itself be concerned about these minor activations, i.e. when the town river is being activated. A senator mentioned. It's these inducers that are below 10 MW, and they don't need it, if I get it right, to have environmental evaluations. The number of applications has increased greatly. It's a matter of time. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson is a very needy and important person in this regard. It must be a concern for environmental groups such as left greens that there is a great increase in electricity production, e.g. Only in the wind, but it has a very visual impact on landscapes as we know it. All of this matters. There's some reason why people are so interested in this right now. You must link it with a step towards selling electricity to Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u366	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his second question. He speaks of concern for environmentalists. That's the biggest concern, you're absolutely right about what you're doing. Senator. It is not of concern that individual town streams or less years are applied. This is just as much what he mentioned, and it is the wind power; if it gets out of hand and people start building windmills for all the ground, unless they are held around it. I had a word with the highest. A minister earlier in the winter on this occasion, and she did not feel the need to build a special legal environment for wind - power plants at this time. I believe that there is a great need for it and that it is only taken in time. We need to work hard on this because it's predictable. There has been a dramatic increase in Europe, and we need to prepare to do this in a reasonable way in relation to the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u367	The president would like to suggest that after meeting the president with the council members, there is an agreement that a meeting can last longer than the Congress dictates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u368	Mr. President. I will continue my final talk. Then I discussed the consequences of being replaced by the introduction of a energy package, one and two, which crystallizes very in the Southnes heat system, which was then divided into HS Power and HS hosts. In my first speech, I discussed how this was being done and how politicians failed to fulfill what they promised, the local government in Smokejanestown, where the independence party had a clean part of it at that time. So that I would only rip it out of my first speech, Smokeytown began to sell his property in 2003, and then they were worried that it would even be sold. Company officials claimed they would not. Another came on the day, and in 2009, Smokeynestown had sold all its share in the heating system. This was a review from my first talk; I think this is very important in this discussion, i.e. what has been the result of the market. Sports are frightening to these substances. So it is in 2010 that a Canadian company named Magma Energy, by permission of a president, has become owner of the Southern Heat Institute. This company owned by the South American community built from its bases and had a great deal of community importance, e.g. for distribution of hot water. Although certain areas were not profitable, hot water was still distributed there and then electricity from the same company; otherwise, it would not have been done by the private person. Once stopped, it is justified by continuing to belong to the rural groups under the name HS host. There would be no need to worry that the HSS hosts would remain in public property. Earlier it was said that there would be no need to worry about selling heat. It didn't work, it was sold. Now it's time for the PBS distribution system, and those of the country officials in these years, 2010, say that there's no need to worry about getting sold. Let us see. In 2008, HS hosts are founded, and it belongs to the countryside and to the London Community energy company, Reykjavík. Then, in 2013, Rhinestown begins selling shares in HS hosts. However, they had promised that it would not be done, and the public would not have to worry about it; the distribution system would continue to be owned by the public. So, there's something sold to private property. The rest then follow, which had less share. The most interesting thing about all of this is that people promise that this will not happen, but nothing is true of it, both in the heating system and then in the distribution system. Both are sold in spite of the promise that they will not be. That's a serious thing, Mr. President, when politicians treat the public in this way. I'm very afraid the same thing will happen to me in this matter. There's been a lot of promises that nothing here is going to happen in the sea cables unless the General handles it in a specific way, there's a law that'll stop it. I say: Is it not quite likely that these laws will be taken away soon after they are made and here will be attacked by a cable. Then we are involved in this common market area, and we are subject to the European Union joint organisation, which is ACER, and is involved in making decisions on our energy policy. I made this up because there's a lot of harmony there, in my opinion, and the need for this story to be told. I'll finish it in my speech later tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u369	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an interesting talk, such as a storyline or a history explanation, the Birgir of Þórarinsson may suggest that those who cannot learn from history are, in effect, in a sense, incomprehensible or doomed to repeat it. I think it's good in this context that we look at the story and how things have come true when we may have taken an unwary step to the earth. It's been a bit of a tendency for us Icelanders to get upset when it comes to new things and to rush into the door of joy because something new is happening. This may be the result of being brought up to sea and country, where we create when there is hope. There is a study in the Farmer magazine of April 12th, 2018, on what is happening in Norway and what will result from the induction of this energy package. I briefly reviewed that report in my speech yesterday, and there is something in common with it. A senator came in here, that the state will not have the authority to decide which energy will be sold. I think it's just that if we go this way, the next certain thing you're going to do is not just take away the law, but it actually has no value where national rights stand above national rights. I'd love to get a little re-imbursement from what it was. It belongs to a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u370	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's very important to keep this in mind in mind in this regard and to review the issues I discussed earlier, i.e. ... Southnesyheat. They tried here, including from this room, to speak for preventing this company from being sold to privates. The government did everything they could at that time to stop them from selling them. It was natural that, suddenly, a large energy company owned by the public became a private business and a foreign company. This has never happened before, and of course, when this was realized and was tried to prevent it. A special committee was appointed to be proposed, etc. and probably by law. The result? There was nothing to be done, so I say that there is a danger that we may be in the same situation within a few years that this will be in the market of the big companies in Iceland. People may say it's a remote possibility, but I don't think it's ever occurred to anyone that the Grayham of Southernnes would become a private firm. To start the business was a great achievement by the South American community. But it became reality, and that's why I think the same thing could happen in this case once everything has been introduced into this common market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u371	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, the plan was to prevent sales for private people. Little wonder that the steps we take when we have these examples alive in front of us! At the same time, it is very interesting to look at it, and perhaps it is very good to look at it when we have done it right. I came in before that, in answer to what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson that in the Annex IV Convention on the European Economic Areas, Iceland made a special agreement discussing fishing and fishing work, which is about one of our largest resources. There we knew because of the tremendous importance of the matter. I'm of the opinion that in this matter the resource is on. Those who have been here at the council Hall and have observed the discussion and have paid attention to talks that have been discussed. the transfer of energy companies and the obligation of public and open exports to private and personal development of resource rights, see and can read it as open a book that is to come. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator that it is, in fact, that this will be happening soon and in a more predictable future if we do not respond. I want to pray. A senator to bring back whether it would be wrong to dress well with a belt and bracelet and do it properly, as we did about fishing and fishing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u372	Mr. President. I think there's a lot of need, and it's a good word. Since there is a need for a way in which we can cope, we do not have to deal with any uncertainty as to how these matters will be handled. This, of course, raises questions, and we've discussed it here before, why governments do not want to do what is good, and they are the best way. The figures that have given their opinion, the legal experts, both to the State Department and to other authorities have just identified this, that the best route is not being taken. Then you wonder, why? Why? It must simply be that there is a great deal of pressure from these energy companies and those who are planning to achieve energy efficiency here in the country, wind power, activation below 10 megawatts, etc. There must be a lot of pressure from these sources, in view of the fact that we're not closing up for coming into this common market. Because it would be to back up the enterprises, the investors who intend these plans, if they see that there is a permanent release of the fact that we will not be participants in this. So I think this is the bottom line, i.e. That's a good way to go. But there is some reason why governments do not want to go that way. It is claimed to be due to fear that the EEA contract is in danger. I think it's a total blowout.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u373	V.E.G. President. I would like to continue with this discussion about the future energy demand in Europe. What is expected? Then what? What will happen in the future, i.e. At a fourth, a fifth, and even a sixth energy package, or no matter how many? I'd like to be the subject of my discussion an article by Dale a Keating, who is the Forbes' reporter. In an article he wrote on April 9, briefly reviews the plans of the current EU energy manager we know from this discussion, Miguel Arias Cañete. I'd like to review the contents of this article in a more loose translation; I hope it doesn't go too badly, but I ask someone to respect it because it's being done. The article says that while power has constantly flowed from the European Union's capitals to Brussels in the past two decades, the European Community was a key issue that the European Union could not have touched compared to the approved ones. It even touched. Compromise, defence, education, health, energy and tax - energy and special emphasis is on tax and energy. Today, says Keating in the article of April 9, they took the risk of crossing this line that concerns these factors, i.e. trying to capture and control these last two things, which are tax and energy. He will discuss this in the article that in the context of an annual consideration of the Community's energy network, plans will be made to unite countries that are not linked to the national energy system. The European Council has planned to abandon the requirement that monotonous agreement between all 28 countries in the European Union, to change energy and tax legislation, to be the dominant, i.e. that monotonous consent is essential. In its power, the suggestion assumes that such elections would move to a majority vote that would be based on votes based on population numbers. It would be a population, not a member of the Member States themselves, to determine this. This fine man, the European Energy Commissioner, Miguel Arias Cañete, speaks at a press conference that the requirement for unanimous consent is completely missing - i.e. The majority of democracy we know within the country. He speaks of a rule that the European Union uses public resources, up to 5 billion euro a year, to offset fossil fuels use, and to encourage better use of renewable energy, and to try to change this process on energy laws and taxes, he feels that it is best to also come to Brussels. He says that the legislation does not offer it directly, but it uses the German word "Passerelle," which is a kind of hanging bridge, i.e. To cross these legislations on the need for a unanimous vote with some kind of jump. [[The president calls.]] That's pretty interesting to wonder about. What's going on? This is part of the policies developed by the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u374	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u375	V.E.G. President. For some time, we have called for specific explanations from this platform, especially members of the Central Party. Counts 'em out. A senator that at some point followers had to introduce the third energy package into a U.S. law in some way answered the question of the fourth energy package and what lies ahead? In the light of history, I think it's necessary to wonder what else is in the pipes when it comes to the energy market and not just the energy market, but other things that we're doing. The reason I'm saying this is because the implementation of a two- or-other energy package made it impossible for the European Union to provide us with a reserve, at least not at that time, from a energy pack of three. When we were initiating a pack of energy or another energy directive, we would have needed to know more about what was in a pack of three, and we might have wondered what the consequences would be if we took it, and now fourth time we've got to install a pack of energy four. Is it not reasonable, if that word can be used here in this room, to expect followers to play the table for what lies ahead in further legislation on the part of the European Union, at least for the existing legislation? Now we've seen that the Norwegians seem to have been introduced on a four - pack energy package, which is greater than the introduction that the general council has received here in Iceland. Now it is a question of whether it is correct, simply, to postpone this induction and to consider what comes in the next package and then to make a decision that is based on a complete view of what is on the table and what is to be expected so that a person can consider the whole matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u376	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it is, and for that, the game is made with this speech and, in fact, many others who have been previously delivered. I'm trying to look into the fifth energy package, I'm trying to take the sample a little further. It has only been discussed with the fourth energy package and what may be found in it and in the third, as well. There has been no discussion with those who are following the package on what is to be expected. Either because of fear of the discussion and not knowing how to follow through or because humans have simply not studied it. I don't think it's likely because there's a lot of good choices here for the brothers and women who are well informed in most matters. It makes you wonder why in many places people do not want to - because we have been in a daylight situation that is new in this discussion, that people have been here by day, and that they have shared in this discussion: Why do people not want to discuss what lies ahead? I think you're absolutely right, and I'll just take it with my mind. Of course, it would be natural for a senator to prepare a package of four energy at least so that we might learn what is to be expected and then be able to decide if there is anything in the future that we simply need to take sides with the arrangements for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u377	V.E.G. President. Since 2016, the European Union has been working on this fourth energy package and through a process within its series. It is revealed in an answer by the State Department, to a question I asked, that has been prepared, I think, four of the eight types that are contained in this fourth energy package. The other four, if I remember correctly, or the rest, are in some form of activity in the European Union. Like the Norwegians, we are expected to have access to all of these types. Is it not true, then, that people stay and know what is going on here, whether it takes some real change or not? I'm not familiar with the fact that in response from the Ministry of State, these types have made some changes. However, it may be normal not to appear either. What I'm saying is, these changes that started with 2016 are on a full scale inside the system. The Norwegians seem to have had some kind of presentation on this. The Ministry of State, in answer to me, shows that someone or a group of votes has been appointed to review this fourth energy package. I think it would be right to get a presentation, before you go any further, on what's in the pipes, what these types of types have been approved and what types are in the EU, or what they're going to change. Now that we know that this is done or is on the way to being fully accepted, it is only natural that we wish to get a presentation of it simultaneously with what is being delivered from this third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u378	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator once again before the answer. I think it's crucial that we take a closer look at what road we are and what lies ahead. It is my conviction that as you study the matter more carefully, you will conclude that this is not the case with us at all. This fundamental concept, which can well be applied in Europe, is not suitable for us Icelanders. I always wonder why we have this subject on the agenda and spend all this time on it when it would be a simple option to postpone it and bring information to the council to study, study the lyrics, find out what practical ways to go. There would be reconciliation on this matter. Well, I've suggested that we return the case to the European Commission and we've supported that very argument. But we could accept that the case would be postponed and put on the table further evidence that we could introduce ourselves and, of course, other members of the council as well, would be able to take a discussion in a broader group than here on these important topics involving all of our resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u379	V.E.G. President. I'd like to continue asking questions about the so-called fourth energy package following questions or what we were wondering about, me and the other. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. The point, of course, is that already it is clear that the so - called fourth energy package, or what we call it, lies in place. True, he has not been officially taken away in the European Union. But you can find a document on the Internet that probably contains about 1,000 pages of the descriptions of what this package contains. We have also had in our hands a report or a statement made in Norway on this fourth energy package. I raised some questions to the State Department on the fourth energy package, and the answers to those questions are rather general. That's six, seven questions, including the key changes in the fourth energy package, how they affect the Icelandic electricity market. I would like to have answered more about the contents of this package because it is absolutely clear that its contents have existed for a considerable period of time, since in 2016 he is actually laid forward or working with it. As a result, the course they make should be a light to those who have studied it. Thus, according to the State Department Department's answer, a special task force has been initiated in interest of interest management and consultation on the induction of the fourth energy package. Therefore, we must ask: Why can't we senators be properly informed about what is contained in this fourth supply of energy? What steps are taken in excess of what is in the third energy package we are considering? Why are these packages not assembled and viewed as a unit, so to see if the overall results of these two packages, three and four, are that we should stop now? We're supposed to send the case back to the EEA joint committee and get it advised or we're going to seek out who we can. It's a bit of a special process, I think, in view of the fact that this is the fourth energy package in a presentation. As a result, members of Parliament - I wondered if members of the Commission have already received some presentation on the fourth energy package as they are eager to introduce the third. I'm just hoping that there's no such carelessness that people aren't interested in knowing what's happening there. In view of the Norwegian report on this fourth package, it is clear that continue to intervene in the EU's own determination rights for energy management. There is nothing that has been observed -- actually, I don't think anyone has claimed that the European Union intends to have some kind of authority or control over the earth or its fallen waters - but how they are new, how it works, what price energy is sold, where it goes and where it goes, it is quite clear that the European Union policy is that the common EEA market will be united when it comes to this. The Norwegian report says, with the permission of a president: The Regulation shall advise on additional laws relevant to the cross-border trade. The objective is to ensure the principle of a well - integrated electronic market. This means that all participants in the EU common energy network must have equal access to markets. Furthermore, there is a general requirement for transport and bottle neck control. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that the import and export of electrical energy should not be limited by national factors. These national factors can be considered for example. the infrastructure or build-up of the power system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u380	A respectable president. I was very interested in what I heard. In spite of the 1,000 - page report on the contents of the package, a senator refers to the relationship with the fourth energy package and the apparent fact that all of it is being swept under the blanket. This is particularly interesting and, in fact, strange considering that one of the main cohesives of the third energy package for the induction process is refer to a so-called energy pack two and one, and that this is normal if not an inevitable extension of their induction package. Then you would think that when you are fighting for the induction of the fourth package as a part of an overall process on the induction of such packages, you would inform the General Assembly of what is to be expected in the next step, what is included in the 4 energy package, and that introduction to it that we should assume that the current government will support it in the same way as it now gives evidence of the third package. I don't suppose I will. A senator has had the opportunity to read all the 1,000 pages, perhaps with the opportunity to do so before the discussion ends. Compared to what happened. A senator has seen, how on earth does the present government seem to want to silence the existence of the fourth energy package and the fact that he and the five soon to arrive?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u381	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I think it's perfectly clear that it's not my job or I don't have the ability to explain why the government or the government groups are not interested in putting the main ingredients of this fourth energy package on the council table. I find, in fact, very special if the loyal members of the Commission are going to allow this third energy package to pass through here with the knowledge that there is a document called the fourth energy package, sometimes called the winter package, where the next step is published on this energy market, which the European Union is going to do on one and together, as they call it. So I think it's only wise to request that this session be interrupted so that the Minister of Industrial Affairs can explain and present to the general council, both government and government, what is included in this fourth energy package. Based on the descriptions I quoted earlier from the Norwegian report - now perhaps the only layer we have in our hands now or what you have learned slightly - it is that there is a huge change in how electricity is transferred across borders, how electrical energy is moved within countries, what requirements are being made for the infrastructure and the like. So I think it's very important that we keep it very tight, so we put stress right here in this symposium that we can shed some light on what is contained in the fourth energy package before the next step is taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u382	A respectable president. You can hardly conclude that the government is in its own argument about the third energy package to weaken Iceland's contract status, a position towards the European Union with respect to the fourth. Although I have no more than what. Senators have the opportunity to read this 1,000 - page report, and they are still waiting for the government to inform us of what is to be expected in this fourth energy package. it suggests that further efforts are being made to make with the third package and even to define areas in terms of energy production rather than in countries. In other words, taking an even greater step in putting the nation's kingdoms out of the picture in this regard. This must make us think about the dangers of implementing a third energy package now. Or thinks so. A senator's assessment of me right?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u383	A respectable president. Yes, the assessment is correct. Hv. A senator told last year that there was a need to be informed what is included in this fourth energy package. That's exactly what it's natural to do because it's embarrassing in fact, I'm going to allow myself to use that word, that the senators may agree to the induction of energy from the European Union knowing that the next directives are ready, knowing that there's a point where the next step will go, that they intend to accept it without knowing what's going to happen. I think it's pretty scary because people are somehow shutting down the fact that there is a story. However, we need that information. We need to be able to expose them, to have them criticized, so that people can wonder what exactly this means. I also wondered, " Is there any hope that some Icelandic medium will have the capacity to study this subject and go into it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u384	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, Sveinnsson, for a fine speech. That's where we're getting closer to something I've been calling, and then what? What is involved in creating a third energy package? So when the chairman of the State Department of State says in an interview that there is in itself no other way than to generate a pack of energy three because a pack of energy falls out of force at the entrance, if I understood the Chairman correctly -- I don't think it's putting material words into her mouth, i.e. Yeah. The head of the State Department of State - then we must be faced with the question: Are we in some way on a track, in a single policy block, where next we met the officials and hauled in front of the four of us because we made three packages so perfectly well without any warning, reasoning that we had done so well in the introduction of the second energy package, that there would be no need for us to look to any exception? Then when a pack of four was here, a five-pack of energy would come in here with the same logic. This, of course, sounds like some twist and panic propaganda. But is this not the situation that we face if we look at the matter a little cold? The argument presented to members of the council is much less important than explaining to us members of the council who doubt the introduction, or to the public who watch what is involved in this. Shared. A senator thought in my mind that we are doing what seems to be in some shape of assembly which will bring us the fourth and fifth parts in the same way as the third?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u385	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, my talk showed that the assembly has been in progress, and the dosage of the salami has been very effective. When we introduced a pack of two, or one of the electrical energy directives, we made it so impressive that it was taken and so impressive that it was one of the major evidences in the European Union against providing Iceland an access from a energy pack three, i.e. that we had created a pack of energy so elegant, perhaps even further into this induction than was required. And, at the same time, we're producing a lot of electricity that no longer fills up some mature European reference standard for what constitutes a low energy system. What we do know, however, is that these packages continue to come. Now we know that the four energy packets are in place. It's been published. It was actually started in 2016, it's being discussed in the European Union. It is being introduced to stakeholders, as it were, at least it seems the Norwegian government has received some presentation on him. So it is only natural that we ask for the dive into what is in this fourth package if it is prepared, so that we do not become in the position that once an energy pack of three is approved, the conclusion is that we have done it so beautifully and so well that we couldn't help but also agree with a four-pack of energy. At least we can make a decision today if we sit over this fourth package. Then a conscious decision could be made as to what would happen in the future. What's beyond the corner, what is it about the European Union taking care of? We can do it if we pause. If we don't, I'm actually feeling a little careless about going to agree with this without divulging into what's in the box four when he's on the table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u386	Mr. President. I think it's just like this, like a reflection, a word. paritaprevir Gunnar, the Sveinsson of Branga, reflects the concern of many when he describes how he envisions that the fourth and fifth and later packages come in here on an assembly. There is nothing in the case of the problem that focuses on the induction of the third energy package, which provides reason for the development of special defenses in later stages beyond what has already been done with the third energy package and which appears relatively insignificant when examined. I know what you're doing. A senator in the light of his former duties might have had a similar example of being too slow to be accepted out, or did they have been implemented in a way that did not keep when they were under trial? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u387	A respectable president. I think the most intimate example is that of the unheated meat, that there they thought they had a stronger ground than they had already had. What I'm worried about is: The much more than a fourth energy package is going to produce, for example. the demand for further markets of electricity? Will there be a requirement for a measure of prices to be determined in any way other than today? Is there a continuation of the rights and the like? If it's true - and now I'm going to let myself say if - if it's true that this fourth energy package allows for the import and export of electricity not to be limited by national factors, we need to get it on clear, respectable President, what domestic factors that are? Is it national law and order? [[The president calls.]] Is that the transport system? Or what is it there, because it's been shown that it's in that package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u388	V.E.G. President. I cut it as a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson said about this fourth energy package. I agree that we may be going to look to the future for some reason - what possible consequences - instead of looking at a pack of energy. But first, I'd like to say that the Norwegian Team had agreed on in the third energy package that eight legal warnings would be placed. Since then, they have not been approached. I'm wondering what. A senator has an idea of what happened to them. The rest of the matter is different. A senator spoke here that no Icelandic media had noticed the fourth energy package. But here I am with an article from the farm paper, which is now granted public advertisement. But they're all over the fourth energy package, talking about it as a black report. The question that follows is: When you are connected, you no longer speak of an independent state but of an area. So we'll be belonging to a region, but we won't be an independent kingdom in this trading business, I'd like to say, which will take place. I'll have a second. A senator to shed light on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u389	A respectable president. I'm going to apologize for not mentioning the town paper before. It is true that this Norwegian report was addressed and did well. It appeared, if I remember correctly, chained into it, or at least I found that link somewhere. It is true that there is at least one media involved in studying this fourth energy package. I think we must wait for senators to stop and find out what is in these thousands of pages that could affect Iceland. You're right next door. A senator says that in this report -- actually, I don't remember the website, but I've seen this elsewhere, which says that in a pack of four is no longer talking about state but territory. It's made, if I remember correctly, some kind of agency, a local agency that handles the management and the like in that whole area. The development in these issues is clearly continuing. The question is, do we want to move that position? I don't know if it's right, a respectable president, to use the word of combat - or the place we are in today from being able to send the case to the joint EEA committee something in the past, since we really don't know what is available. Then it'll probably be too late to deal with this because the evidence will be the same as the two energy packages or the electricity directive, that we've been introduced, and thus admit that this process is going to take place. I think it's very important, huh? A senator, to pause and see more what these regional offices or institutions are for setting up and whether this would affect Iceland. There are many factors to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u390	V.E.G. President. This is of interest to you when you begin to read a little further in this article in the book of the Song of Solomon. For one thing, ACER is designed to ensure this free flow of energy, especially from those with low electricity prices to those areas that have high levels. We can imagine how that will end. This is no longer the subject of this independent kingdom. I particularly insist that the state will no longer have the authority to choose which energy will be sold. I think it's a bit serious, because we haven't put energy policy here yet. We'd have to put on some energy policy. Then we might consider how and when we will send our precious energy out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u391	V.E.G. President. The induction that occurs with a pack of three energy - we are indicating these types and enforcing the criteria, policies, tools and tools belonging to these types, regardless of whether we will ever connect Europe with sea cables or not. We are implementing these directives and the warnings mentioned here, as others have said, primarily to home bridges. Of course, it will be the same with a pack of energy: If we produce the types that await us we are, of course, enforcing the responsibility to follow up on them and to ensure that the contract with the European Economic Area works as it is supposed to work, including, at the same time. 7. in which it is said that humans should make sure that it works as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u392	Mr. President. I would have liked to have an opportunity to have a word in these discussions, more than I can say, with the supporters of this case. Today's morning paper contains an article that follows one of the supporters. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. I count this article written in integrity, in carefulness, and in good conscience, that I may discuss its contents. In the beginning, the work of the foreign committee is being traced to this matter. It says, by permission of the president: There is no precedent for the third energy package amongst the EEA's languages, neither the much work that took place within the recruitment process nor the scope of work and discussions that have taken place within the council. All stones have been pondered at the discretion of the case... I'd like to say that there may be a lot to say in view of the fact that it's been called for eagerly, including of the individuals listed here, to provide more detailed information on this matter than is available, including a legal opinion regarding the way that occurred on the side of the government, i.e. bringing in the energy package with what is called a legal company. In fact, as you can see, a search for the legal advance will become fascinating when it finally appears. It says that the source of the energy package in the Icelandic national dish, as suggested, is granted by Presidential permission: Its third energy package, in the way it is proposed, is not merely safe, but its rules are for the benefit of Icelanders because of increasing consumer protection and policies that promote an increase in competition and equality, which should generally promote a lower price. Now there is no other choice than to make a few comments. First of all, there is an increased consumer protection. At a meeting I sat -- actually, I don't remember if it was in trouble. The Foreign Affairs Committee, where I sat several meetings, or on a job committee, where I have a seat - were guests who are familiar with this consumer protection. Then came the answer that increasing consumer protection would be an increase in the rate of charges at the field of electricity. There may be something that we could best sort out ourselves without implementing an entire pack of energy and debate. The claim of increased competition and equality between parties is very simply unprovable. I realize that this is an article in a newspaper, but it's pretty obvious to me. Also, the conclusion that this should generally contribute to a lower price. In this discussion, why? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms provided an example of her own experience in the south with seawater, which showed that it was the source of a large increase in electricity prices. Similarly, we have a lower electrical value here in Iceland than is generally practiced in Europe. By the coordination and consistency the contract is headed for, at least It is unlikely to expect anything else, but that electrical prices here will increase according to what happens and goes on. In this way, there would be an increasing burden on Icelandic and Icelandic soils that rely on energy at a cost but that would result in shock. Go on, with President's permission: In one opinion, Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Árni of Hirst, the result was otherwise, i.e. the implementation of the third national energy package might conflict with a constitution. Here, it's very careful, it has to be said. At least they say in two areas of extreme doubt about whether or not the measures in the energy pack are provided, especially in Regulation No. 713. The constitutions of the constitution are carried out. There is more in this article that a perfect motive would have been involved, but I may have an opportunity to do so later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u393	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and he certainly hopes that he will continue to exasperate this article. The Ennis of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, published in the Morning Press. It was quite unusual to hear the senator read from that article -- I must admit that I had not read it myself - in view of the fact that a few days ago, a reporter named Gunnlaugur, I think, about the European directives that have been introduced in Iceland to demand that an invitation be carried out on the new language and the like. It is of particular interest that a few days later, a member of the Independence Party writes an article and blesses the fact that the European Union is gaining even more power in the Icelandic electricity market than it already has today. In my language, I have not discussed much about the constitution and the serious doubt. A senator and the experts pointed out. But, hey. A senator has done quite a lot, and I'm going to ask him to answer me if they can be misunderstood when it comes to the constitution. Is there anything wrong with this warning? I'm worried that's what's been done here. Hv. A senator testified that the writer of the article said that all stones were rolled over. I'm going to allow myself to question the fact that every rock has been rolled in the light of it - and I've been calling it here tonight - that the so - called fourth energy package is ready. He's in the way. It's clear what it is. If it is so that members of the Management Board have received some special presentation on the fourth energy package, that these stones have been rolled around - because it may not be independent, but it is a direct continuation of the third energy package - then we obviously do not have the same level. So I want to go inside. A member of the council, depending on whether he agrees with this, that all stones were rolled over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u394	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I firmly believe this, so I've been so bruised here that all the stones were not rolled over. I've called many times for legal opinions to be obtained at the time chosen, i.e. full induction but with what is legal in advance. That route has not been explained sufficiently. It is very negative, to say, not to have a legal analysis on that route, but to the arrangement itself is not established, as is the basic proposal for the definition of the two civilizations. In fact, I feel that this opinion is almost brimming with warning words. They are in conflict with the republic's constitution, No. 33/144 and then the consequences of induction. There are a number of warning examples that point to the fact that a foreign person is receiving the intervention rights, as further explained by the national organization, the provision and use of energy resources. This is what we see. This is what we're discussing, and it's like our fine fellow members who are not supporting this. Their absence is natural. It is also perfectly correct. A senator says that it is, of course, a shocking report that he referred to on Saturday in the morning's issue regarding this assignment. They just don't see the bottom of it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u395	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator noted the warnings given by the so - called twin experts, including those of the United States. Information about how to plan, how to plan and use the resources. What I've learned about a pack of four energy is exactly what we've got on the planning, disposition, and use of resources. So it is normal, I think, at least, to conclude that this fourth energy package is directly extension of the third energy package as if it was directed to the continuation of another energy directive introduced here. If it isn't right, then what? Senator, to stop and wish we had an opportunity to study the contents of this fourth energy package, what changes will it lead to in Iceland? Perhaps it is best simply to postpone this case until the fall so that what comes in the next package can be properly settled so that both members of the board and those in the administrative body are better informed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u396	Mr. President. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that the full content of material is designed to produce reports, legal assessments including the content of the fourth energy package, so that it is part of the preparation and discussion on this subject. The idea of accepting this third pack of energy with the fourth one across the corner, unfertilized, unidentified, unfathomable, unfathomable, is certainly not a good idea, and does not declare good. And then, on the fifth lap, the horizon shines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u397	Mr. President. In view of the problem. A senator mentioned, how to put it, an interesting article, perhaps a little more vivid to the way the administrative point approaches, an article after the issue. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir in the morning newspaper this day, and saw that it was traceable, which was by the dog. A senator, who in her opinion was a good case of this case, was tried to argue that the matter had been handled well, so I guess it's not necessary for members of the council to decide, so you cannot help but ask. A member of Parliament: Is it possible for him to allow himself to argue that this was a good trial even when we have not even received the answer to the basic question why the government is not prepared to send the case back to the joint EU committee in accordance with the terms of the agreement? It is not to ask for answers to why a person does not do something that is not already available. No. It is simply asking, in view of the government's opinion that something is related to this so - called legal advance, which is now lost during this discussion. But in view of the fact that the government still insists that this will not have any effect on the country that is promised, why can't humans even answer the question, why not send it back to the joint EEA committee? But when a person cannot answer such a basic question, can he at the same time be allowed to say that the trial was in order?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u398	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It may even be added to what he set up because the energy package contains types of natural gas, and it is not necessary for us Icelanders to bring them in because natural gas is not relevant here. Now that we are not connected with the European electricity system, you ask yourself, " Why are we being asked that we are connected to this European research, the ACER? ' Similarly, there is reason to ask the following questions. A senator put up this: Why not? In view of the fact that a high-ranking source of energy, or official with energy in the European Union, a statement has been made with the highest power. Secretary of state, expressing a certain understanding. And in view of the common statement made by the EFTA states set out in the field of the Common EEA Committee, in view of this understanding, a person foreordained that understanding would be expected to be of the regional speciality of the Icelanders, which is primarily of the geographic nature, and in view of this, it would be expected that the interpretation of the appeals of a request for a release from these types, especially 713 and other factors that are found there, would be gained, positive and subversively, as it would be possible to interact with hostile countries on a peaceful basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u399	A respectable president. As long as we cannot answer these simple questions, we can really do nothing more than try to fit in the gaps. I believe that with the fact that governments did not trust to answer the question, it is relatively simple to be able in the gaps. Wait a minute. A senator would object if he disagrees with my interpretation. But I find it obvious, in this situation, that in the European Union, these general declarations make it acceptable that Iceland is an island and there are some primes in a paper with a synonym that was just exactly irrelevant in the overall context and in the long term, in terms of the main objective of the European Union and the third energy package, to connect national electricity systems and to bring it all together under the direction of a joint European institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u400	Mr. President. As understanding has increased in this matter, as far as the discussion has advanced and as information has been received, it has actually been extremely limited and at a limited dose, it is only to be seen as humans in general realize it, at least. The control point in life, that these types, including the 713 Regulation and the 714 and the specific regulations under Directive 72 of 2009, which have been specifically raised, must be faced with the immediate introduction of this to the Icelandic national rights. The premonition, the legal defence, is intended to match the views listed in the above opinion of this conflict with the Constitution, and that it is absolutely forbidden to accept here any type of action, in view of the fact that it is not appropriate because it is not a sea cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u401	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I have to admit that I'm pretty caught up in these effects from a series of energy packs four and the article in the farm paper. I understand that energy packets four have been introduced in Norway, including it has been found to have a higher authority than before. The most important impact in Norway is that energy prices will rise. A report published says that energy prices will increase in Norway, increase, and their business will lose the competitive prelude they had. People are talking about tens of thousands of people who will lose their jobs. If you're thinking about Iceland, and we'd like to have a job all over the country, I'd even start thinking about the continuum transfunctioners, for example. ... inEndland,worship. A senator has come to his senses or has developed an opinion about what will happen when we are completely in a fourth pack of energy in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u402	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. I agree with her completely, and I don't have to worry that she's here repeatedly pointing to the fourth energy package. I strongly agree that it is dangerous and not in accordance with the responsibility of the legislature and the legislators to discuss this third pack of energy that is different from that of a well - equipped analysis of the contents of the fourth energy package and the commitments that may be made to our shoulder - and especially in view of the fact that we were present with the third energy package, fully implemented according to the materials. I believe energy prices will rise here by approval of the third energy package, as well as the fourth. It's clear that we have a much lower price here than we do and we walk in Europe and this cooperation is going on. Emerging is a password in the European Union, and this will result in increases in energy prices and will also lose the competitive prejudicial advantage they have in this regard. It is part of the inadequate preparation of this case that this energy package should not be analysed. It was now informed by one department at a committee meeting that a four - pack of energy, available, has been transmitted to a business organization and that they are looking at it. [[The president calls.]] But you ask yourself, " Why isn't this shown here at the Council? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u403	V.E.G. President. It is quite remarkable that it seems that many other members of the council saw the fourth package. If I've understood that correctly, he's even had a presentation, e.g. Unable to establish a cohesion. It would be good if we could have such a presentation. The picture that you see is that we are even putting our jobs at risk, when we like to keep jobs all over the country - I think it's such a nasty picture I have in front of my eyes. Coming from the Northeast District, I think it's important that we keep everything we can there and all over the country, if that's what it's all about. That's what I'm talking about. A senator knows whether the same thing will happen here as is said to happen in Norway in view of work?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u404	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah. A senator referred to the experience from Norway. An article should be available on this point, i.e. the Norwegian efforts to warn us about the third energy package and how it all worked out. The experience was not good. It was not the least of the battle between the Norwegian Labour Party, but its group of sisters in Iceland, the United States, was so eager to accept the energy package that she declared support to the case before it was submitted to the General Assembly, she agreed on the case, and so did Reunion. It is odd to see how uncritically these individuals approach this subject. Yet, you are grateful that these parties have no government responsibilities. I hope it's as long as it gets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u405	Mr. President. I had proclaimed that the next time I would give a speech on the state of affairs in Norway, especially in Norwegian politics, this energy package and how it affected our situation. As a result, I was going to discuss Cyprus and Cyprus by means of a sea cable, a very interesting example from real worlds that can explain the whole purpose of the European Union. But then I came to my mind to hear it in speeches or objections just before I said that the fourth energy package was held in place for some organization and stakeholder in town at the same time as the government's keeping him secret before the council, which at the same time is designed to deliver the third energy package which is being announced here as some consequence of the first and second pack of energy, and as a result of the expected preparation for the fourth package. So I have to leave my talk about Norway and the cooperation of the Norwegian government with all of this to wait until next time, but wait. President, put me on the rosary right away so I can handle it. I can't help but react to what we heard here, that there was a presentation on the fourth energy package elsewhere than here at the council, in other places than the people expected at the same time to make decisions about the third package. This came to my mind an article, relatively short, yet very interesting, which appeared in the recent morning newspaper composed by eight Icelandic professional leaders in support of the third energy package. But what was most important to me was that these agents were not trying to wave off imaginary warnings or to claim as the government is doing here that this has no effect. It was, in effect, the opposite. A respectable president. The article went on to explain why it is important to introduce the third energy package to achieve the effects it should have. This also reminded us of the words of the director of national activation, which described the need to agree with the third energy package to improve the regional competitiveness towards aluminium manufacturers in terms of electricity prices. Obviously, the director of national activation did not think that the energy package would have any effect but that it had a significant impact and that it was likely by linking with the European electricity system and thus by increasing prices. This was more in line with the approach of these eight professional leaders, who said that they felt that it was very important to achieve the real effect that they evidently considered the energy package to have. The article could not be read beyond that effect. They're connecting the energy supply systems of Iceland and Europe so that we could sell energy and increase energy prices and sell the energy to other countries as some form, well, to help fight greenhouse gas emissions, which, of course, we're already using the energy here in Iceland. But the reason why this came to my attention was these statements I heard earlier about the fact that the fourth energy package for people out in town is to introduce the fourth energy package that sees the third energy package in the eyes that I described, that it is important not because it has no effect, but precisely because it has a very real effect. The question, then, is how they responded to the fourth energy package, whether they regard the effect it describes as an even greater cause for rejoicing. It was at least to understand the article that I referred to, which specifically stated that this is part of a process of evolution that continued and that evolution was very desirable. I'm calling for a proper president that we're getting a presentation on the fourth energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u406	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir In his speech, Davíð Gunnlaugsson sailed to Guinson's office. That's in order, I'll say, the fourth energy package is for review at Iceland's Management Board. This was shown at a meeting. I assume it's in the Department of Industrial Affairs and Department of State based on incidents. Similarly, a business organization, the body of industry, the union of industry, showed that as far as it is ready, the data provided by this package has been transmitted to these parties, and they have thought about and had in mind for some month. It must be stated at the present time that there is a very unusual reason not to be considered in this process, this preparatory process to agree with this third energy package, that it would be made clear to members of the European Union's position as it is at the scene and that some kind of a summary or analysis of the materials of these types would be provided to the extent that they are ready. The Furriks Árni and Stefán Már group will prove to us the need for such types such as this, as to form, we will see their analysis of the individual types in the third energy package, I specifically mention Regulation 713 - will convince us of the early urgency of the process of examining these data very exactly as they do in their opinion. We'll see what it's done. This has resulted in their ringing alarm signals in more than 40 pages to their ratings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u407	Mr. President. The information that lays. A senator gives me this writing to make these executives professionally, in a completely new context in my opinion, or rather, underscores the fact that my understanding was correct, that they believe that the source of the energy package is going to have a very real effect and is only part of something to come about. And all of this, in their opinion, is the best of business, but just as I think, for reasons that I believe we'll turn around and we'll be warned about this energy package, they'll be able to sell electricity at higher prices, raise electricity prices in other terms, and they'll be able to export environmentally friendly energy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As with the use of such energy in this country, is it not of much greater benefit to society? To hear these things, that men have been looking at this fourth pack of energy for a long time without the council being given any presentation, while we read an article after the incident. paritaprevir The secret of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who has special praise for the treatment of the energy package here at the council, is merely another confirmation that it does not go together, and often there is in the direct paradox that the government presents to us here and that the public is on the subject of this energy package and then the reality as it appears, whether it is an article by business leaders or a branch. þm. Brutish Bryndís writes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u408	Mr. President. There may be two things I wanted to pick up at the moment. A senator this time, on the one hand, we are confronted with the fact that, perhaps, the word can be absorbed, into the European electrical system through a so-called samurai method, i.e. For example, consider a piece of a piece of paper, where the matter should be considered in a comprehensive context. We've drawn up four and five energy panels in the conversation that has taken place here, but it's just too narrow a point of view to evaluating this pack of three, in that light. In addition to this procedure, it has been linked to meeting representatives of the public institutions who have been describing their position on this matter. [[The president calls.]] How can the government have a bearing on controversial social matters? [[The president calls.]] I would have thought, Mr. President, that the government representatives should analyze and disqualify the matter and put it in charge of the Senate committees. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But to be taking a stand on the matter that elected agents are supposed to weigh, and I find it very strange. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u409	The President's right at what. Councilmen say they have a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u410	Mr. President. What does this tell us, the fact that officials, representatives of the institutions who are supposed to carry out the public's will by means of democratic elected agents at the Council or by the Commission, should exercise themselves in this way in this matter? Is this not just another confirmation that the government's conduct on the case is the result of its acting as an official system, whether in Iceland, in Brussels, or in Norway, ruling in the case? She's not fighting for the induction of the third energy package because there's some special policy of the board, I would have kept it at least versus their supporters' stand. But this is just another example showing that what we're sitting with in Iceland is a clean system control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u411	President. The assurance of a third energy pack may have increased as the discussion goes on because of the knowledge we progressively receive from a pack of four, i.e. that the package that will be taken from the people we are considering will lead to further compression, to further markets of energy. It's very special again that we're here with a government, under the front of the left greens, who work hard to make energy even more markety than it's ever been, but the fourth energy package is taking steps further in that direction. Hv. A senator mentioned, if I heard correctly, the obligation to help other countries correct their carbon tracks. If the fourth energy pack deals with the increased responsibility of the countries in the energy market, helping others to reduce their carbon position, the reason for the Icelanders to sit down and dissipate this fourth pack of energy is to link it to the third energy package and say: "Hey, here's the total legislation, the overall energy change that we've been able to absorb with the first energy directive and then another, here's the overall overview of the pack three or four package, and that's how we need to take a closer look at it. I think it's a responsibility to take the step men want to do here without knowing what it means to take the next step with a pack of four energy. Even if they make a big talk from this platform and say that we can use the 102 str. The EEA Convention is not likely to do so, not after half the sauna has been taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u412	A respectable president. Yes, that's a fair criticism. A senator, but I'd like to add one thing. I'd like to point out that the energy directives that he rightly called, the first and the second, were exactly commands. But the third energy pack is about regulations. What's the difference? Yes, the first and second directives were actually not called energy packages, not until then, not until the third one came, but were relatively simple commands in comparison with the Regulation package shown in the third energy package. Rules give much less space so that each country can adapt it to its environment and, therefore, give it much greater power to the European Union. The fact that governments, the government, have used the induction of the first and second energy directives, which later received the names of energy package one and two, to support the introduction of the third energy package, which is filled with regulations, must tell us a story about what is to be expected, such as water. A senator came in, when a pack of four energy, expected to be full of regulations, not just orders, will come into play. If the directives from the first and second energy directive can be used to justify the implementation of an entire regulations package, is not this package precisely designed to lay the basis for a Regulation package of four? This must be to weaken our position when it comes to this third energy package, in the way suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u413	President. Some time ago, I sent some questions to the State Department and requested that the State Department answer them. These included questions about a pack of four and five energy. In response to a series of energy packets, the President's permission says: In November 2016, the European Commission offered proposals for new energy legislation under the heading ▪ Pure energy for the entire European population. ... This fourth energy package includes a review of energy legislation and a total of eight types. I don't have time to trace it here, will do it in a speech later tonight. It also shows in the answer that a special task force has been initiated because of the interest guard and consultations of the induction of the fourth energy package. In other words, it is obvious that the fourth energy package has begun to take a considerable turn and work. Therefore, it is not impossible to ask whether it is simply best to interrupt this discussion, perhaps to postpone the case until autumn - at least to pause so that what is going on in the fourth energy pack can be done more fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u414	A respectable president. After the data we've managed to cut out earlier today on the fourth energy package, I feel that the only sense is to wait until the fall of payment on the third one, as I understand, in fact, the highest level. At one time, a minister of foreign lands announced his appeal. Then, suddenly, it's decided to drive through at night. Why would that be? It could be that it is simply because some people feel that it is important to put us in the trap before the fourth energy package will be discussed so that there will be no escape possible, that they do not want a talk about the fourth package before the third of them has been handed over, since we'll figure it out, senators, that it's just the third energy package that needs to be hung out and said, "Here and no further. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u415	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. It is shown in the fourth energy pack that electrical prices will rise. If you start to wonder, we can say that energy prices will be equal, at least for us in Iceland. I can say that it is quite remarkable that we have not yet received a presentation on a pack of four energy. I further agree that it would even be better to postpone the case until autumn if we are not going to take advantage of our legal right to bring the case to the joint EU committee. It is stated in the Regulation at the fourth energy package that additional relevant measures are recommended, especially when talking about cross-border business, with the aim of ensuring that the entire electricity market will be integrated. That means that all people on this same market must always have access. It is also remarkable to contemplate that domestic factors should not be limited. Then I'll start thinking about this energy policy that hasn't been set for Iceland, whether or not we need to get her out of bed in order to make sure that we've set up something that's been introduced in the fourth energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u416	A respectable president. I feel like it's in front of me. And then you write one before. A member of the Parliament and one of the vice presidents of the Generals was an article in the Morning newspaper to determine how well the trial has been done here at the council. Finally, we are trying to get information on what is contained in this fourth energy package that is clearly in direct contact with the third. We hear that before a while, this fourth supply of energy has been introduced to the other and these interest groups in town, and we read at the same time that the whole treatment was exemplary here at the council. This is just another reminder that what we look at is what European leaders call praiseworthy deception but that is not praiseworthy in my opinion but, as we see better and better, most of all, truly deception. Then you realize, when you realize the position of the fourth energy package, and that it is in the presentation here--starting to leak out, so to speak--that it may have something to do with the highest level. The minister of state dropped from the previous declaration that there was a possibility that a third energy package would not enter until this fall. It's all I can get out of it but that everyone will want to force the third one through here before they get into the discussion about what the fourth energy package contains.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u417	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for that answer. I'm still a little bit thinking about the lack of energy policy for the country. Over two years have passed since ESA determined that nonremuneration could involve government support and a violation of the EEA Convention. Therefore, ESAs want the government to determine how to pay for the use and how to look at the market. It's very important to me. And according to ESA's logical opinion of 2015 it is said that rights should be distributed in a selection process where equality is being maintained and it's all based on our becoming part of this joint European energy market, or I'm giving it to myself. I want to ask you why. A senator's opinion of this is what he thinks of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u418	Mr. President. I have a very clear opinion of this. We have simply seen too often that ESAs, in their progress in implementing EU policies, have been involved in pure marketism, and often at the expense of what might be defined as the national total interest. In particular, it has been bitten on the land, and it would do much more if its course was like that. A senator described it as continuing to strengthen himself and become a control freak. We have been blessed in Iceland to be able to use this environmentally low-cost energy to promote the development of employment around the country and should do much more. However, this way, to simply control the market, prevents this, which will lead to a greater compression in Iceland's capital area, not just that but an increase in transport to other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u419	V.E.G. President. As I've been talking about lately, there's no energy law in Iceland. There are no laws on resource management, and under those conditions we are going to promote foreign control of the nation's energy resources. The EU Regulation says that the costs of internalisation of electricity prices should not be paid by national authorities and that cost should only be paid by national users. That tells me one thing, the price of this country will rise. The country's homes will have to pay a higher price. Energy loss due to transport between countries must not be affected by the electrical price of buyers but should be involved in the loss of energy. Landactivation claims to have 12% excess energy and loss in transport of that energy is approximately 10%. I wondered, " Where is land activation going to get energy to sell through a cable? ' According to the EU's most recent PCI list, the design of the IceLink cable is considered urgent that the relationship has been targeted for the project. That tells us something about what's at stake. The end of the work is set in 2030. For some reason, it is the exact same time that Germany has decided to reduce its carbon waste. If we look at the Senate arrangement, there are two serious problems. In view of the decision 97. g. The EEA Convention has no value in this resolution unless it meets the 97th paragraph. The EEA Convention, i.e. ... tobe co-administered to the EEA joint committee and approved there. As a result, if the Allied Parliament allows the government to confirm for Iceland, the decision made by the Joint EEA on the recording of the third energy package in the EEA Treaty, all three of the directives will be valid. Then there is a higher power deed to foreign institutions over Icelandic interests in energy field than the Constitution allows. You see, in the third energy package of the European Union, the European Union will be a decision-makers in certain energy issues. It'll be higher than all of Iceland's authorities. It'll certainly work out, I'll give myself that the control system will swell out, and Icelanders will have to pay with direct or indirect taxes, for example. higher power monitor costs, as well as electrical prices will rise. It's kind of special that we're looking back like this, as we've done here today, that we're wondering what it was that made us accept a pack of energy of two. Now, for the first time, we actually have the opportunity to proceed legally, I would like to say, by taking advantage of this opportunity now and sending this package of energy into the joint of the EEA Committee, so that we can safely enter legal warnings. It was earlier this evening that warnings were made in Norway. There were eight of them and none of them has yet been activated. It tells me one thing, that it seems that they just don't matter, that they're in a doll, to get people to accept what may be, as we've talked about, the system has decided.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u420	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, Árnadóttir Kolbrún of the Year's Daughter. Hv. A senator has been talking about the fourth energy package, and some of it is subtracted, even though it may be possible. Not all grown-up, as it is called. Peacemakers say the European Union is running a Web site where they can be accessed. I might have thought that on the part of those who put this issue into practice, the natural government, it would have been right to stand in order to introduce these initiatives, the content of this fourth energy package, as soon as a special expert document on the materials of the package, including one of the engineers and professionals in electrical systems, and, of course, lawyers, governments, and the lawyers who specialize in what might be called electrical rights. I'd like to call it a night's opinion. A candidate in these preparatory activities, which should be self-condent and natural, is referred to as such an opinion and that such criticism and analysis take place long before the case is discussed at the World Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u421	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson's great for his counter-sponsored response. As I understand this, the fourth energy package is more than a log. If I noticed correctly, the package has already been introduced to some sort of organization in this country and more than one, so it is hardly only possible to introduce it at such a presentation. One is the other, at least if I again quote in the Song of Solomon, that it is spoken so beautifully that it will mean that it will become a free competition. That's a pretty nice word. But at what cost? That's why it's all I got in my hands, i.e. This article from the Farm newspaper entitled Kolsmark Report on Package Four. It quotes how this has been done in Norway. If we are to take ourselves as role models somewhere, it is the way things were introduced there, and they live to tell us what the consequences have been. They are not that good, considering, if countries simply lose control over what happens to the available energy in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u422	Mr. President. I just wanted to have used it downstairs and make the shoes so that it was at least that way. any part of the fourth energy pack is still drawn. No doubt you are right. A senator says that some of him is probably ready. It has been observed that the types already transmitted by the government, as far as it will be understood, are involved in a business organization, that is called the Organization of Employment and Industrial Organization, so it is here in government offices and in the field of professional living, discussed and examined. However, at the location where the final decision will be made, there have been no such demonstrations and no minimal efforts to introduce this energy package or its materials to the Council, and much less a report on the North American experience of this third energy package has been submitted, which they used to provide only eight warnings, but nothing has been asked. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u423	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It is remarkable that this report - what if it is just available, I am witnessing to the report on the implementation of a series of energy packages in Norway and the report is entitled to the President's permission: ◯EUs engrunion, Strømprisene, and Industienteen. This is a thorough study of documents and media coverage, interviews and conversations with people in the energy sector. I don't know how useful it might be for us to have access to that report so that we could read it in Icelandic, Icelandic language. I think it's a good price that we try to follow it so we're not going through a foul and bringing a pack of three just to install a four-pack of energy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u424	President. Hv. A candidate made the fourth pack of energy and a report of the people mentioned in the Blob magazine a good deal on the subject of his talk. I'm going to quote the writing on this Norwegian report. It says, by permission of the president: In fact, the report says that "it's the most important thing to do. " to shape a law frame for Europe's joint energy network has now completed with a energy package of one, two, three and four. So went on December 2018 as agreed in the EU. This fourth package has been sent to Norway's government in view of its entry into the EEA agreement following the Council's approval of a three-pack of energy at the beginning of the last year. This is actually drawn up the process we are discussing - and fear only as shown in our language. It's about that as soon as a pack of three energy gets out in Norway, and then it's done in Iceland too, because the induction has to take place here too, people will be able to produce a pack of four. It may be that the members of the board have been given a detailed presentation of a four - pack energy package and the changes it contains, e.g. With regard to monitoring institutions, sales of power, further markets of energy, etc.? You would have thought, knowing that the fourth pack of energy is ready, that the members of Congress wanted to examine the whole case, and see what combined effects of a pack of three and four energy will already be introduced. As this report shows, Norway, at least those outside the administration, see it as a unit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u425	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. It's a little steep. It is quite remarkable that Norway has been built into this common energy network, which was induced by a energy package one, two, three and four. That process ended there in December 2018. It's a little scary to wonder why we haven't seen where this might be because it appears to be possible. I imagine that about the same recipe will be used in this country as was used in Norway. All I can see is that we need to call for more information on what is contained in a pack of four energy. Let us not forget that Europe lacks so - called pure energy. This is far from the fact that in Norway and Iceland, we enjoy so much pure energy, but Europe is not so well. Therefore, the EU will do all they can to get us into the common European energy market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u426	President. I'm going to reread the last sentence in the quote I read earlier. It reads, with President's permission: However, it depends on Iceland's approval also accepts the induction of a three-pack of energy We all know Norway can't complete the source of a pack of energy until we've done it. The Norwegians seem to be ahead of us, have studied the four packets of energy, dissect it, and wonder about it. Meanwhile, we, members of the High General Assembly of the Icelanders, have not been given a single presentation of what is included in this fourth energy package. Thus, we must ask, Has a member of the Parliament been given such a presentation? I can't believe the senators are making a decision to introduce the third energy package knowing that another person who carries the four number is waiting beyond the corner, without knowing what it is. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u427	V.E.G. President. I truly agree with what happened. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, also because there are many side effects that we need to cope with. The farm magazine reports another report that the induction of a three - pack of energy follows that the introduction of the so - called shipping panels is also under way. They are said to include eco-efficiency of labour market social subsidies and this under the cover of the EEA Convention. We've certainly discussed this at the council how we can deal with this project, but have we met that project in the light of the introduction to what we're doing under the cover of the EEA Convention? I wonder.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u428	Mr. President. There's a reason to thank you. A member in particular for making us think about what is coming, and as a comparison of how people have dealt with these matters in Norway, where governments may not be just as frightened as here to show the bigger picture, as we have been going through the discussion of the third energy package. In fact, we have ample evidence of what is to come. Already, as it may be said, across the fourth energy package with adjustments to the articles of the third energy package that we address most, 713, 714 and 715, which appear in Regulation 347/2013, which is a tremendously striking law that I had planned to use in the future. That's why I'm not looking for advice. It's for a senator right away. Because of what? In fact, a member of the local Parliament named the Farm magazine has been diligent in endeavoring to draw out this complete picture and what is to come and what is to come. It is pointed out that while preparing the soil in Iceland with the sale of these so - called constant letters or absolution, the soil is already being prepared. It is now claimed that Iceland produced only 13% of its energy from environmental energy sources, 58% by incineration of coal and other fossil fuels and 29% by nuclear energy, much or less. Is it not one of these clear indications that should make us think about what is going to happen? You're gonna put all the energy into one pot, and Iceland will simply lose the competitive prelude it has to produce 100% pure energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u429	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson is very, very impressive. You see, it's kind of striking. It's shocking to think that we're at the point where we're discussing Iceland's energy resources under the premise that they're being confused and that we have to go into business with them. I can't believe it, but I think it's true that some kind of constant letters are being exchangeed and they're just going to be buying and selling, which is a requirement from the European Union that they need clean energy. If I recall correctly, 70% of energy in the European Union is called dirty energy and it aims to achieve that goal in 2030, if I remember correctly, to have a certain proportion of so-called clean energy. All of this, although understanding the context is really a little difficult, is the hardest to admit that we are being drawn into this reality. There's nothing to say that we're wondering about this; it's impossible for us that 58% of energy production is made by coal and 29% by nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u430	A respectable president. I'd rather you were. One senator says it was too deep in my years to call it an illusion when it is claimed that 29% of Icelandic energy is produced by nuclear energy, 58% with fossil fuels, and 58% with human pay for the use of these deceptions at the cost of Icelandic energy? Could it not be that this is yet another indication, all to the same well, that men are ready to go quite far and resort to deception, even deceptions, for buying and selling, in order to reach the main goal of the third energy package? What evidence is there that, when using such methods, people will deal with disagreements when they rise up in places where European Union and Iceland's interests may be at odds?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u431	V.E.G. President. Indeed, it can be claimed to be a delusion; it is truly a delusion to us. I also wondered, " What is this for? ' Who would benefit from handling matters this way? It all leads to the same conclusion. We are to be prepared to become part of this joint European market. Hv. A senator asked who would decide if there was an opinion. It won't be the Icelandic government, I know that much. It will be this institution, known as ACER, which will have authority over the Icelandic government, when it comes to matters that need to be settled. And for what benefit does that institution work? She's not working for us Icelanders, she's working for the Europeans all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u432	Mr. President. I had started my first talk by reviewing the country's priming history. I'm going to continue with that story, since I'm going to have the opportunity to do so in this talk. I had mentioned a number of prospective laymen who started at the beginning of the last century to build, almost nothing, a system capable of extracting power from the hydropower that could be used to relieve human activity by driving machines, and, of course, to channel electric light. Although both materials were scarce, these men did not react with bowing skills, achieving their goals and benefits. I mentioned a number of home - to - house stations in Skaftfells, built by Bjarni Runólfsson in Hólmi, all of which built Bjarni 116 such home stations in a few years. In many cases, the materials for this building were applied to a beached ship. Bjarni so effectively fixed the machinery parts to the electronic project, along with everything else required at home. Mr. President. They were such men as Bjarni Runólfsson in Hólmi, Jóhannes Reykdal in Hafnarfjörður, and a number of such pioneers, who cleared the way that has led us in the long way to the great workers of today, as well as to the prosperity that has followed. The first large activation, if it can be used a word for activation, which is the next tiny thing compared to the superintendents we have built since that time, is the activation of the New York Times, a 3.2 megawatt. After activation of the Old age River, there is a 16-year break in activations of the larger inducers until the Lightoff station is started in 1937, which was 16 megawatts, with the largest activation to date. A salmon station was started in 1939, with 27.5 megawatts. Then, after war, there will be several small workings, the construction of Sparks, and the rejuvenating of the West, all of which are less than 10 megawatts. It is only after the activation of Irass in 1953, after a war that has been reexamined, for this station was uplifted to 48 megawatts. Then come a few smaller and larger fortresses in the Borfells, the Gímá, the Milká, and the Steing Monster Station, whose boasts are now 1959, 27 megawatts. By that time, about 1960, a total of 150 megawatts have been activated, which is next little compared to the one being activated today. Right 60 years ago, the power of all the inducers of the country is approximately 150 megawatts. It is of interest to note that the second activation, a Burfell, in 1969, is larger than all the available force in the country at that time and 5◯ times the largest activation in that time. The cage station returns 270 megawatts. The activation of a turning point in the country's activation history, as energy from it was intended for industrialisation, in particular for inculturation. If the window is available from the sources of this time, in the leading of the activation and industry, men would expect Icelanders to pay off the loans due to the activation and distribution of the system at perhaps 25 years of time, Mr. President, or that the nation would be responsible for the activation and distribution system prior to or during the turn of the century. This is important today when discussing the future of the energy resource. After the major inactivation, Burging, human beings begin to become more extensive; Bear coat is 3 megawatt 1969, about 1970, some larger in that time, Lagers 1975, 27 megawatts, Blacks 1976, 75 megawatts, Krushes, which is actually a steam - power healing, such as in the Black Angel, is set for 1977. Despite its massive initial problems, it has been resulting in 60 megawatts. By then, only 600 megawatts, though not all of them, have total power in the country of 1977. I will continue this story in my next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u433	A respectable president. I thank the senator for an interesting talk and look forward to hearing the rest of it. You see, it's very good to review the history of energy efficiency in Iceland. Not all of us are aware of the kind of exercise that was actually triggering the use of fallen waters and later the earth's heat on our barren land. It is appropriate to discuss this now, when we discuss the three energy package, and a pack of four, in fact, in the past, in view of the introduction to EU energy directives, from number one, have done gradually that we are sharing, or are losing, custody of efficiency, prices and management with our energy resources. Surely these pioneers have not set out in such projects to become part of some huge energy market, where energy like any other product is traded. It is impressive to see that, under the leadership of the left green, the market sector of electricity is continuing. So I'd like to ask the senator if it's not normal to stop and avoid taking further steps toward the marketing of electricity with the European energy market and instead using the energy at home. And have the price of energy as we would like and believe the price is to be used for the construction of jobs and to strengthen the infrastructure, and simply if less energy prices can be offered to households. The aim of the pioneers in their time must have been to improve the nation's interests, to improve the interests of those who can enjoy their energy, and at the same time to produce valuables.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u434	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his thoughts and questions. I'm convinced that when people go into such large projects, such a small nation, up in 1960, they decide to take a huge loan to build the biggest activation for that time, the biggest, as I mentioned earlier in my speech, and a distribution system, a line from the activation site, and that the plant, they have, of course, debated about such risks and such borrowing. And there is evidence of this. I'm also sure that in the minds of the people of the country, it has, of course, been the intention that this would improve our nation's interests and that we would have to accept waiting for these decades, this quarter of the world as they talked about, the loans were up to 25 years, to see a better time, with a better distribution system for public benefit, for the benefit of professional companies. As it turned out. But they will not accept this. That is why this great opposition to the rule we speak about. That is why this opposition is severe. It is the result of looking at all of this as their resources, and when these high stock costs have been paid, which we're obsessed with these years and have been doing over the past few decades, they naturally expect these energy to be paid to the citizens and businesses of the country at a lower price, when the cost of stock is not paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u435	Mr. President. Am I not, then? Senator, it's very strange that we may be taking some steps in bringing the directives from abroad and opening up for further induction - from a pack of four then - at the same time as we view the energy as our future? Possessions that we can use to improve the interests of our subjects instead of tying them, indirectly or directly, to decisions that are entirely different from the interests of individuals and enterprises in Iceland, i.e. how to determine that prices or use depend on some whims from abroad? I think it's important that we look into the whole thing and look to the future with the way we want to use and value our energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u436	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the questions. He put it well when he said that this is our future property, which is well - said to us Icelanders. I'm sure this is what the people sees to it that they own this resource. I am also convinced that humans will not accept or accept the fact that this right, this resource, will become largely privateized, and then sell it to the people for the future. They expect to enjoy the fruits they have worked on, i.e. with the story I've traced, I'm pointing out that the nation accepts the burden of borrowing, taking risks, building up for the future. [[The president calls.]] This will not be tolerated in the hands of anyone other than the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u437	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason very much for a good speech, a good explanation to remember. It's hard to think of this structure as moving along. A senator described so well before, will simply be thrown out of the table if we come to accept a pack of energy of three and then a pack of four, as it is already on the drawing table, at least many others besides us here in this hall have seen that package. If it turns out that we're going to generate a pack of three energy and then we're going to bring in a four-pack of energy - the nose vision we've received, thanks to the farm paper, - I wonder if the nation will be okay with us in the EEA Convention. I think this because we now have the opportunity to send a pack of energy to the European Commission and I think it is absolutely necessary that we take the legal course of making use of the process of reconciliation that we want to begin. It's even to stand, I want to say, stuck on our terms. I want things to be done on our terms and wondering if. A senator can shed light on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u438	Mr. President. Yeah, the Icelanders want to keep the energy resource on the nation's custody, that's for sure. This strong response to these European energy directives can be explained in this light. I'm trying to point it out, with my speeches tonight, where the roots lie in this relationship. The modern - day history of our Iceland begins at the beginning of the last century and progressively increases after the century, at very rapid paces in the latter part of the century, and after the turn of the century. This story is engraved in the minds of many, and people looked to a bright future, not just in the sense that the electricity would light up and help us, but because we would actually possess these last and last. There is no need to rebuild. It's an eternity machine as far as it can define a word in this regard. Of course, they expected that in later years, they would profit from this in a lower electric price, for the benefit of all, the nation, and the commercial businesses. The entire history is interwoven not only with the nation but also with prosperity and, especially, regionalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u439	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what we can see in our mind the energy prices. We know that energy prices increased with an energy package one and a energy package two. I wonder what. A senator has some idea of how the development of electrical prices will be adjusted. Then I mean rural and urban areas. I would take it that he spoke of regionalism and would be interested to hear what he was doing. A senator has that to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u440	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the questions. She asked last time about the energy prices, it went up. One argues about it here in this sermon whether it is fact or not. I won't make an assessment. Last night I spoke to a man in the garden who, as more people have, claimed that energy prices had gone up, especially the part, Mr. President, which is called transport and distribution, after we separated that part from the energy bills. Of course, this increases the booth and likely leads to some increase, even though a person may argue about how much it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u441	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gauti Göta Hjaltason for his speech and historical insights. He is clearly under the motto: That the past shall think in a future shall be built. Of course, that's what you think of, when it comes to it. A senator here speaks of energy, that a large part of the continuum transfunctioner is in his district, the Southern District. He actually draws out the Special System of Electricity, where large and powerful companies are very different from what happens and goes on in Europe, in the system that seems to be a great effort to draw us into. We've built our own distribution system, a sort of lymphatic system for the electricity that leads to the deepest valleys and outer bottoms. Mr. President. Icelandic electricity, clear and clear in the waters and in the centres of the earth, is the national value we must protect and protect. Besides, there are other energy sources that may come into our laps. In fact, the development of wind power has begun, and we need to discuss this much further, including the foreign interest in it. Before long, the tides may be activated. There we can be talking about a tremendous amount of electricity in the coming days. So we need to protect our position in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u442	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For him to meditate, the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. He mentioned that the past should think about the future, and I truly agree with it. It was exactly my purpose to review this activation story that I haven't yet finished, and will hopefully finish later tonight or night, and I believe we can learn much from it. Hv. A senator mentioned how energy's vascular system works, that it is spread throughout the country, and that it has been concerned that it needs to be strengthened. Of course, it is necessary to build the fortresses, although not the larger, where there are weaknesses in the system and where commercial companies are present that require energy to be developed, so that it does not have to be shifted very long, with the effects of energy and weaknesses in the system. Hv. A senator also turned to various other sources of energy, which we truly have, indistinguishable. He called it the wind. Indeed, there is much insignificance, but there we show complacency. What is the preparation for the coming of a wind - power plant? What is the preparation? What's the foundation of the law? Has it been built so that we are prepared? So we've talked about it, how do we want to see it happen? How do we want to build it up? Nothing's been discussed. I've called for it, in my speeches, and in conversation at the highest level. Minister, but the bill of the material has not yet entered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u443	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is certainly true that energy policy needs to be high and wide. Hv. A senator noted that it is as if humans have almost turned aside the specific factor called the wind power. I'd like to be allowed to mention, since I have an opportunity to, that I have asked a question to the highest. Industrial Minister on investigational applications and activation warrants for activation up to 10 MW as well as wind generation. It is not unusual to have a policy regarding the design of these chemicals, where these elements are chosen, including From organizational and environmental considerations. Of course, such wind parks must be assumed to be environmental assessments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u444	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this consideration, the Ólafur of Ísleifsson'vastness. I'd like to mention something else. We've been activating the drop power and steam power. Hv. A senator mentioned the wind, and we agree in that way. There's something else. It's the tide power, like the whale. A senator mentioned his previous answer, and I think there are great possibilities in many parts of the country, especially in the Brefjords. I'm also going to include another type of energy that we also have high potential in, and research may throw into that area - the Western eye may be happy if it is, but it's called wave power, i.e. To activate the wave, the tide. I think there's also plenty of energy in all the gambling in Iceland. The future is thus bright in the field of energy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u445	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the talks that have been delivered here tonight and look forward to hearing an extension of a talk. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who reviews the progress men who went to use their energy in our fine country. I'm going in this short speech to include only the State Department's answer to my queries, especially with the four energy package and possibly five. According to the Ministry's response, from 2016 onward this fourth energy package, where the Commission proposed a new energy legislation and I reiterate that this is a legislation. Then it says, by permission of the president: The development of the above issues in the EU and in the EFTA context work is closely monitored by the government. Energy law was on the government's priority list of interests for 2016-2017... Once the types have been formally adopted at the EU field, work will begin at the field of work groups in EFTA to examine and evaluate legislation. The answer is, in fact, just describing the process drawn into the induction process that we should meet when it comes to the European Economic Convention. Now that we've got some evidence, we know this energy package is in place, i.e. energy package four. Apparently, he has been introduced to the Norwegian government. He has been reported to some extent in Norway. It shows that a special team is active in Iceland, or initiated at least, on the interest guard and consultations regarding the induction of the fourth energy package. It has been observed that stakeholders have been informed about this package of energy rather than the General. So the General Assembly is to wait now for this ordinary process, certainly the legal process and the right process, to start. Is it not right to stop, a respectable president, asking what is in this fourth energy package that is directly involved or directly following a pack of three? Is it not reasonable for members of the Parliament to pause and wonder what steps are being taken if this third package is completed without being clear what is included in the fourth package? Is it not proper to look into this fourth package and see if there is any reason to stop with this third package? I think so. I think it's best to step down, not perhaps replace the legal process that we have agreed on regarding induction, but to use the application tools we have to study before the process begins. We've talked about it many times, and the person here has discussed it in a public chair and promoted the expansion of interest in Brussels by the EEA Convention. Now we have the opportunity to take real and direct interest guard to study the overall picture of these two energy bags. I'm asking, Mr President, if the members of the Management Board have such knowledge about the fourth energy package that they have no concern that this third energy package has no effect or is actually just a prelude to what should come. Is this how people got some introductions? I call here for information on whether the four energy package, the connection to a pack of three, the subsequent input of a pack of three energy, has been introduced to the council members, since it must, in fact, must be. I can't believe that men would be so accused of accepting this third package when they know that there is more to come from that induction. It's amazing if you do. In response to the Ministry it's really just a standard answer, eight types are mentioned. [[The president calls.]] - Now's the time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u446	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech and looks forward to the continuation of it. The situation is: Here is a matter so terribly ill - prepared that it is on the verge of being classified as a member of the council. We have in front of us a careful opinion of the two most commonly mentioned jurists. It shows that they don't think it's enough, but they say at least twice in their opinion that there is considerable doubt that the implementation of these types is a constitution. They trace in detail the regulations in the types that are being introduced here and given the legal value of national rights, accepted in Icelandic law, produced by foreign people, or achieved at least, as it is said, an indirect effect and: on what? The organization, the provision and the use of Icelandic energy resources owned by the nation. The basis for this discussion is not sufficient data. There are no adequate data on the so - called legal advance. He hasn't been challenged or intelligent. There are no data on this fourth energy package waiting beyond the corner. There are no data on how Norway, where there were plans to implement the energy package, in that country, with no less than eight warnings to meet the requirements of the Workers Party in that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u447	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. First of all, I think it's fine that according to the information I have, these words of Norway have not been answered by the European Union 14 to 15 months after they were submitted. Norway has sent a letter or a address, asking for answers, and not getting answers as far as I know. Hv. In fact, a senator brings up an enormous issue that I have not made up of in my speeches, but that is, of course, the significant doubt that they companions, the doubles sometimes mentioned here, believe is in the Constitution. It is not acceptable to have any doubt about it. That's why I think it's right for us to get them to look at the warning they're called, which, in fact, I don't think it's a big deal about the induction, because we're coming in anyway. The premonitions are more than just to help us at home, or at least to swallow the case. We also need these two fine gentlemen to look over and review the commitments that we make if we produce a pack of four energy. I have no idea that the European Union will accept - or that it will be agreed on by the other EFTA countries if they decide to generate a four-inaccess energy package - that we can get a reserve rather than from a pack of three. The effect of this package No. Four will affect our constitution, whether there are further indirect effects on the organization, business or use of our energy resources. You can't put your head in the sand about this, huh? A senator, and act like it's no big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u448	Mr. President. It is becoming clear how this is: By removing the administrative warning, Iceland has accepted the national commitment to implementing these types, including Regulation 713 with all its features. This legal agent doesn't change anything about it. He does not have the slightest value from national rights, nor would he be taken seriously. It's right in front of us. It is some kind of performance to hide what they say in the opinion of the two civilizations that it is totally safe to take orders here in view of the fact that this appears in the face, as they put it in their fine report, that there is no connection with Europe's electrical system. So these types will gain the legal value of this concierge agreement, and then they can become aware that there is a legal haggard here that no human would remember ansa anywhere in the world, let alone any court of law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u449	A respectable president. I'm not going to argue with any of that stuff at all. A senator said in his short answer. We are implementing these European legislation adopted by the European Commission in May 2017, with someone very, I would say, inexplicably, the way that the ESA's Commission should be able to use, in fact, always asking the ACER Institute how to complete the situation. A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator saw the nail on his head when he said, in his previous opponent, that there was nothing more in the situation than to consider this matter much better and to address it in accordance with the information we already have on a pack of four energy, for example, so that there is no doubt about the further exposition of power.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u450	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I'll be talking about a news story in the November 19th issue of this magazine. considering an iron-black energy pack four report. I wonder what. A senator has an idea where the Norwegian authorities do not have authority to decide which power they will be given and which way to go. A senator does not believe that the same information applies in this country too. I'd like to add some speculations that I just came in earlier, that about the work and how we try to maintain jobs around the country in Iceland. Norway, for example, wondered whether jobs will be reduced, that there will be simply a threat to jobs, and particularly in the country. That's why I want in. A member of the council, depending on whether he feels that the same could be true in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u451	A respectable president. I can't remember any better than at least two reports have been on the effect on the export of electrical energy through a string would have on the Icelandic energy market. At least one of them was put on a number, I actually don't remember who the number was, about how much electricity would increase to individuals and companies. Of course, the experience the Norwegians have experienced will also appear in Iceland. In the case we have at our table today, however, we are initiating the ideologies. We are ensuing and giving away, as we have just noted, or at least allowing the intervention of our electropower organization on the use and management that we believe is so important to us to keep ourselves. There will be no other rules in Iceland than in other countries when we have introduced these directives. The two solid solution that is written into this is that my own knows imperfection, and if the pattern is completely like the financial market, we can think of whether we've made a mistake there. The mistake we can make and probably always do, but what I'm worried about is that the step being taken here is yet another step in allowing foreign parties, international agencies and organisations to operate in the Icelandic energy market and to influence how it develops.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u452	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I think it's interesting, and I just want to take it further. The Norwegian common relationship, such as our Icelandic ASI, is opposed to a pack of three energy in a country approved. The discussion has been made that it is just about time to cancel the EU contract. I'm not necessarily suggesting that we resign the EEA agreement, but they think it's the right thing because the subs have taken place, especially in the Norwegian labour market. When this is put together in the context of the loss of jobs from Norway, especially in the country, I find this interesting to me if this is what we are facing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u453	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before, a reasonable energy market, coordination and the same rules will, of course, apply in Iceland only to some form of permanent release from the rules. We have an exception to natural gas, we're not connected to Europe, and we're not here to work natural gas, not at least yet. Besides, we're not connected to the mainland for electricity, so we should be on that list as well. I'm no more than a what. The senator's spokesman for the EES Treaty. Like other agreements, it will be possible to discuss his evolution, to discuss the pros and cons, and no one is saying that this will jeopardize the agreement. On the other hand, those who draw up the contract as some kind of terror agreement against Iceland would be much more likely to say that they were putting in danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u454	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson for his speech. I wonder and wonder why. A senator's main points are the fourth energy package and the effect of the third energy we are considering today. According to Regulation 713, which we have in the existing Parliamentary decree, the plan is to introduce it and that the law does not interfere with the regulations of the Regulation. Some of the work of the European Energy Agency, ACER, is, among other things, the work of the European Energy Agency. Under Regulation 713/2009, which we are about to implement, the Agency has sullied judicial cases in the Member States. The Agency is appointed to improve gaps in the Community legislation. The Agency is to contribute to the efficient activities of the internal markets for electricity. It should ensure harmonisation in the monitoring of individual Member States. I understand that the monitoring of individual member countries is an environment in the hands of the Power Agency. The Agency is also to support the implementation of European energy guidelines and efforts to increase energy security, the Agency should also assist the Rapporteurs on energy markets in the application of power rights within the EU. For this reason, I ask why. A senator, because he's a former U.S. Marshal. Foreign Minister: Will this institution, ACER, or its agents at the EEA Convention, ESA - come to the sources I mentioned earlier at the introduction of this model?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u455	V.E.G. President. As I have understood this matter as it is, considering that we are actually beginning to implement these regulations, 713 and 713 without any kind of warning from them, I can't answer this no more than yes. My understanding is that this value here, if I remember correctly, is revealed in one of the early ones that are before a professional committee that is being given an authority of guilt or extra guilt, or something like that, I can't exactly remember what it's said. At the very least, the authority is being added to some kind of woodwork to the companies. The step we are taking here is a step toward allowing this ACER institution to be directly or indirectly involved in these activities or into follow-up of these rules in Iceland. Now people can come here and say that this is not right because there is an intermediate called the Power Institute or the ESA that monitors that we follow up on this. But it's clear to me that when there's a conflict between rules and regulations that are being followed by him and that he leads the Agency, it's the ACER that gives the tone. If I recall correctly, in chapter five of this approved chapter, there is a common conclusion on the subject of opinion. In the case of judicial cases, it is of interest, for we can ask ourselves, " If I bring in a court of law with the Icelandic government for the EFTA, I think it seems that ACER has become a direct or indirect party to this court if we bring in the type of enterprise here. '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u456	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I wondered about the arrival of ACER or ESA in the case of the EFTA states, which is really it. We've talked about it, and I'm not gonna waste time on what kind of song ACER might have on ESA decisions. I'm not going to get into it here, there's a lot of legal issues in this case. I'm not gonna waste any time on it. I just ask myself that. A senator: How does he see the presence of these institutions, ESAs, or following ACER experiences in this regard, such as. to ensure consistent monitoring of individual Member States? How are these institutions going to ensure this on the land, if this is introduced, or if this is linked only to those countries that are linked by electrical activation across the border? What, then, is this in the Regulation if this relates only to cross-borders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u457	V.E.G. President. This is clear, and the explanation for what ACER should do and really what ESA will do. These institutions will monitor that the rules agreed to be adopted in the EEA Convention, i.e. ESA, monitors that the EFTA countries enforces the specific rules taken up and ACER monitors it on the other side. Together, these two institutions have shared in monitoring that it all applies according to established rules. If there's some disagreement between these parties, we've seen that it's ACER that sets and gives the tone to solve it. I think, as we have seen, the trend is in the European Union market as well as in the EEA territory, the surveillance institutions will not yield to their agreements to ensure that the contracts will be fully completed. And we're about to introduce these types with skin and hair. We're not getting any real freedoms except from something that doesn't matter, i.e. The gas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u458	V.E.G. President. I have been somewhat thinking about it today on the fact that the members of the three member states do not seem to have anything to do with their backlands, and this reveals itself in various ways. For example, a person has actually had to stand in debatti, the excuse, Mr. President, on the left to fight the market of Icelandic energy. I honestly thought that I wouldn't live that day that I had to do that. But it's so remarkable that this is what's going on here these days at a council. This situation in itself is similar or similar to that of the Independence Party. We, who have been on this watch for some time are getting a lot of messages and reactions from people, especially from the Independence Party and the forwarding party, which is naturally unsatisfied by the performance of their people. They did not, as they tell us and understandably, choose to give up Iceland's resources to others. One recent article is from the early May issue of Tómas Ingi Olrich. Tómas Ingi Olrich isn't some guy in the town, he's a confidenceist of the Independence Party. He's a former general and minister of that party, the former ambassador to Iceland of the Independence Party. Clearly, he is fed up with the way these cases have grown, and the article in May oversees how the experts most cited in this careful, well - meaning scholars, as he says, try not to be pushed into politics. Which is absolutely right for the fine ex-whit. A member of the council. In a footnote on page 35 of the multiplicity of the Friday Year of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, says, by permission of the president: However, do not forget to reject the Power Agency's application by a company in the context of that question - i.e. if you had put a sea cable here -- the very good company would turn to ESA with a lawsuit that could end up in a contract code against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. ◯ Tómas Ingi, in a few words, describes how the highest power is. The minister of foreign affairs sought further explanation, as he kindly says, from the two emissaries who worked considered. He rightly says: In answer, the lawyers do not withdraw their footnote - by permission of a president - I am reading by Tómas Ingi Olrich - ◯en they go as far as they can to reduce the weakness of the solution the government has chosen. They believe that the ESA, EFTA/ESA, is a comment to the way the government has decided to go... But at the end, experts say: We thought that there would be another way, that the Council rejected the introduction and that the case would be restored to the joint commission with the view that Iceland would receive an exception. Does this sound familiar, Mr. President? This is exactly what the Middle Class and I have been living for days, but friends of the highest degree. A President in the Independence Party won't listen. They're not expected to listen to us, they don't listen to their own voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u459	The President seems to be familiar with all the sounds that have been presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u460	Honorably and as it seems to be an attentive president. Hv. A senator will address a subject that has actually not been discussed extensively in this discussion. I thought I'd make it a subject, and, actually, I think it's still gonna be later tonight, the politicians behind this case as it's played. You see, I find it extremely unfortunate that in order to form the heads of the entire three federal categories, political groups are not to be followed by their own party. It is not always that you are encouraging other classes to follow their supporters and their policy, but it certainly is true in this case. In this matter I still hope that the members of the government will look to their own ranks, to their own officers in previous stages, and to act accordingly. But what I wanted to ask you is why. A senator in the field, since he brings this up, is whether we may be here looking at yet another manifestation of what I have called a system system of things, that instead of conforming to the direction of their own and their people, they follow instructions, even recommendations, from the system, whether it is a foreign control system or any one of its subjects, or who is in Brussels or in Oslo, or wherever the system may be pushing these matters forward, because you do not fully understand how these activities are being carried out on this third energy package and together with the governments and their previous statements on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u461	V.E.G. President. Yeah, maybe we're both in that part of the world, me and you. A senator I thank for the counter, to think exactly about the policy of the groups now forming a government in Iceland. It seems as if this team formed with very low codons and low thresholds, it seems to have between them, that the keel water has flowed apart, so there is no way in some matter the difference between the left green and the independent tribe. I have said that in the past, as an example of how this is displayed in the most unlikely pictures, that the Independence Party is suddenly resisting the ability of the health - care providers to function properly. Similarly, as I said earlier, VG is to promote and work on the market of the electrical energy system. And who would have believed that, Mr. President? I think about it because I think about the people who chose them in the last election, and the question is, were the voters of the left green, choosing their people to market the energy system in Iceland? I'm not gonna believe that. But somehow it seems. In the animal realm, there is a species of animals called streams, leaping after one another before a living, and it is as if the rulers of the governments are on some kind of mission, because it seems to be their main competitive impenetrable today to decommission their groups. I'm not crying, I'm not sorry. But that these actions that we are now trying to defend, I have reason to believe that political landscapes in Iceland will be quite different. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll get in there later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u462	A respectable president. I'd be happy to admit that there's a lot of good and useful in all the administrations or their history at least. I just mention, for example, the independence and independence of the country, the prince of the state of justice, the attention of the candidates on the land's settlements, and, of course, of course, the independence of the country as well. The focus of the left green on environmental protection, although I don't always agree on how they approach it, but also on the left green, on the importance of independence, and on our own decisions, Iceland. In other words, it is, or was, strong national nerves in all these categories. But it's not just the problem that this government organization, instead of promoting the best in all categories, brings out the flaws. I'm not gonna say the worst, but the faults. Because the government has no vision, no direction, and the result is that it allows the system to govern itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u463	V.E.G. President. I'm pretty sure it's not right. So I was traveling to Sweden the other day and was trying to explain this government business to a third party. I mentioned during the interview, it was a natural polite conversation, that in itself this government was not so cursed because it wasn't really doing anything, so it didn't do much of it. But by saying this, I didn't want to remember this case here, because by doing nothing or not doing anything about it but mismanagement, the government, the government, the government groups, is making an enormous mismanagement. Perhaps that is why people, such as Tómas Ingi Olrich, Algmund of Jónasson, and other eloquent men and women, have stood up and do not understand what is happening in their old classes and do not understand their way. It is not easy to put yourself in that situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u464	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He came on many useful points, and I pretend to be able to read between the lines that he shares my concerns about where we're headed. To us, this third pack of energy is followed by a four - pack of energy, which I give myself to be quite large and large, based on the information we have received, that it has about 1,000 pages. We have been informed today that this package will deal with energy efficiency and renewable energy and will also be considered the design of the electricity market, which is a very complex phenomenon. I'll tell myself that in all of this, Europe will recover from a so-called carbon reduction, affecting gas and coal in energy markets and such items, in exchange for liquid biofuels in transport sectors and for renewable energy sources for heating that we know on land. I also want to emphasize that this is a suitable time and that I would like to ask. A senator's opinion on this exact timing is just what he thinks. It may be important that Britain is again being removed from the EU and that all of this needs to hang together, especially if this reduction of carbon dioxide is achieved and how Britain can play a major role in these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u465	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. The European Union seems, in part, to be like a giant spider web; its web has no way out of existence. We can see this from the last news in Britain, where it seems like they're about to adopt the campaign in Brussels, i.e. to choose until the correct result is met. Now it seems clear that national pay should be repeated because the final outcome of the first did not give in to the view of education. I guess there's supposed to be some isolationists, even poopers, who chose with Bgret. It may have been a British national baker's Union, a known national formulaist, who has chosen to leave the European Union. This may be an improvement. But, yes, I don't think this is a coincidence. I don't think it's a coincidence, either, that it seems that the energy packages that we have so far opened up and taken into our home, i.e. The first and second - they're giving us teaspoons what the European Union wants us to swallow in the end. In one package, we were switching our companies into production and distribution. It is now being taken care of, and further, we are to be placed under an international institution with enormous power according to the order that has been opened here. Then, like a snooze. A senator rightly pointed to the coming of the next packages to help the European Union drive more, if you can put it that way, on renewable energy generated in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Where, then, should we get her? That means stretching something outside the border.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u466	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's father is a great man for his counter-sponsored response. Yes, there is some plan that we are not entirely informed about. I took up an article today that implied that lack is the main concern of the European Commission. Therefore, they are concerned even with holding Britain to increase this effect. For example, if lack is the main thought, electricity prices will rise. The European Union would like to be as large as possible to have a large electricity area that allows them to take advantage of superior positions in countries such as Norway and Iceland. I'm asking why. A senator whether he can understand why I wonder: " What is it that turns this all on Britain and Biffit?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u467	Mr. President. As I said earlier, it appears that the plan is to continue choosing in Britain until the correct result is obtained so that the United Kingdom will not go anywhere. Many British prime minister, who has been derided and mocked in all ways and is walking very close, seems to be bowing under the pressure and now planning to resort to the resources, apparently to be, or to open up the possibility of choosing again until an acceptable conclusion is obtained. Although the EEA treaties the agreed agreement between two parties, it seems as if its regulations -- and it may explain the fear of the present government class on this contract - are in itself one-sided, i.e. for the European Union, but at the expense of those who make their own agreements with that alliance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u468	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. Hv. A senator introduced an amazing reversal of the classes, especially those with members of the synonym. It's amazing to see that there has been no decent discussion here, no discussion with the people who have opposed it. It is as if men run away from the case, confident that the Central Party will be whistled out of the field, that it will be run through without taking into account what we have brought here, and without looking for reconciliation with those who are opposed to the way it has been chosen, and without seeking reconciliation in their backlands. It is clear that what's supposed to be done here is not enjoyed in society. I agree with what you say. Councilmen who used to stand before me in the front row: You do not regret following the horrors of those who are opposed to politics, but this issue has begun to take over divisions, lines of ballots, and politics. This is a huge national interest issue. I'd like to think about it a little, and pray. A senator to consider, too, whether members of the council follow up on this matter have come out of contact with their voters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u469	Mr. President. Yes, thank you. A senator for this answer, and on the ground, I agree completely with him. This case is so big that it should not in itself be bound by class lines. Of course, one can see that there are groups at a council that want to go to the European Union's mercy with all that is here, and I still respect that view even if I disagree completely. In any case, acting like that is honest. But groups claiming to ensure Iceland's independence and autonomy but acting as the governments have done, in the form of their voters and followers, may be a little more serious. As I said in my speech, it's something you wouldn't have believed you would be there. And when we get, as we've got the Middle Class, a lot of shipments, a message from people half-sponsored over this, i.e. The supporters of these government groups, you will no less understand this determined will to introduce here a structure that has no way out of its approval. There's no way back but to resign the whole EEA deal. That's not what we've talked about here that we want to do, not at all. However, we have stressed it, and it actually appeared in this paper that I read briefly from in my speech earlier, that it is our Icelanders' right to enter this EEA contract as he is proposed, to walk to him all, to exploit all his articles. It contains a law to send a decision such as this to the joint committee, which does not seem to be courageous to do on behalf of those who are now in control of the country. [[The president calls.]] And that's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u470	V.E.G. President. Yes, thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm telling you, the EEA deal said why. Senator. There hasn't been anyone here to mention it out of one, and that's the highest. Minister of state, who I miss very much from the discussion on this matter. He considered himself to be the source of another senator's absence, even though they were working for the international council, who felt that it would be a challenge to the belt and shoulder ties to cancel the European Economic Convention. You're right, you're right. A senator pointed out, all the articles in the European Economic Area Convention that have been covered in talks about reconciliation and speaking of a matter no matter what it is that it may be. Isn't it a little strange that we're standing here now, and we should be pushed down the throat with the argument that the only way and the right way is not to live by contracts? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At the same time, we are shocked to want to undermine the EEA partnership. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u471	The President's right at what. Councilmen that they respect the time limit they are presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u472	Mr. President. That's right. Those who oppose this arrangement lie at the neck for wanting to destroy the EEA contract, as it is said, by using two articles from it, No. 102 and 103, of course, by redirecting this matter to the European Commission, which is the proper legal way. No, they don't want to do that, they want to drive forward full distance. And people want to take this case so far that the only way back is as great as anything else. The minister of the foreign government initially passed a discussion on this matter, i.e. I'm going to resign this deal. However, that is not the will of those who are fighting against this accomplishment. What we're up to is that we're starting to have a legal way of making this deal as good as possible for Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u473	A respectable president. Now I have a problem. I had announced that I would present a talk about the situation in Norway and contact with the situation here in Iceland, and I'll have to keep it as soon as I've postponed it once. But so much has happened in the meantime. This amazing debate, reported on the fourth energy package, naturally calls for a closer analysis. And then, right then, I was given a crippling hot report on the very fourth energy package from the ◯Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. I know that a respectable president would like us to speak Icelandic here, but I don't know if this institution has an Icelandic name, I would translate this loosely as the University of Oxford on energy, but the next speech must be held out. So I would like to ask a respectable president to put me back on the rosary, for the talks on Cyprus and the bonds of Cyprus must not be forgotten by means of a cable that, in my opinion, can shed a new light on all of this. What I was going to discuss was a situation in Norway. It was claimed by the highest. Minister of State at the beginning of this discussion, or before it began correctly in the media, that with the middle-class members and prospective independents and others who have doubts about this energy package, it made it a form of the Norwegian Party's handwork. That's not right, a respectable president. The Norwegian Central Party has not been driving this issue forward, but it has been very well discussed in Norway, but there have been many other groups that have done so. It was a very difficult matter in Norwegian politics, and it was difficult for the government to put it through the council. Eventually, eight legal warnings would be agreed together. Then I'm not talking about imaginary warnings like they've been looking for here in the past few days, my management, and thinking that I could find myself somewhere in a report or something like that. No, it was required of Norwegian senators that eight actual legal warnings be placed. And I have them on notice, a respectable president. I don't seem to have time to track them down in this talk, but they need an explanation. But what is very significant about this legal advance, in the Norwegian Council, is that 14 months have passed, I have calculated it correctly, since the Council has sent this notice to the European Union to confirm that they would have any significance, but the letter has not yet been answered. And why would that be? Can't be, in fact, I think it's obvious that the people who accepted this letter in Brussels put it in the big pile. And what do I mean by the big fur? Every day when I worked as a news reporter on The Kingdom Radio, they received a lot of news and the duty directors looked at them for talks, and some of them, actually, quite many, perhaps most of them, were placed in the large snacks, which meant they were thrown directly into the garbage bin. It is clear, however, that there is no such thing as the one-sided warning against the European Economic Area Convention. That is why, in their opinion, people have considered this to be some kind of promising deception to get the Norwegian Parliament to enter, or to think it was a warning to home bridges, to be used in wording from Iceland's discussion. But this shows us beyond any doubt how small these so - called Icelandic warnings are. However, that Norway's influence has the potential to be redirected to the joint EEA committee. - Now I'm in trouble. A respectable president spends so little time with me that his speech lesson is over, and I am not halfway through this talk on the Norwegian connection. In fact, I know that a respectable president can't do any more time, but I'm asking the President to sign me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u474	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I don't know why. Similarly, the candidate has seen or received the same tips as the one mentioned here that the so - called legal warnings in Norway, eight of whom the European Union has not done anything until now, have not been introduced into Norwegian law. It has not been proposed that I am told at the Norwegian Parliament with these instructions to make them a law in Norway. You might ask yourself: Isn't it just another proof that it's all something like this, what did the ex-president of the Independence Party call it, illusions, yes, something like that, that happened in Norway? It's also interesting to think that if we get so bad at the Allied to accept this energy package, he'll probably take effect in the European Economic Area before the Norwegian Premiers get some value or they get answered and the fourth energy package starts right away. that the induction of the fourth energy package will begin in Norway as soon as we have done this here, and they are at the point where they have not been given any warning or questions which they put in their time with the third energy package, the Norwegians are blessed. Is it not important for us Icelanders, and especially for the members of the Management Board, to sit down and say, "Hey, we need to know what's in this fourth pack of energy. We need to see the bigger picture of three and four. We can't go on like this. We cannot ignore the possibility that there is a great deal of authority involved. We'll have to postpone this case, take it back up in the fall and finish it if the result is that the fourth energy package is in an acceptable way and we're given the addition of the third energy package we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u475	President. Hv. A senator answered only to the point that I was going to discuss in my subsequent talk about the Norwegian connection, that is, the situation of the Norwegians is that they are completely out of the air on this notice. They have, like, a whisk. A senator points out, not taken into law, and no answers have been received from the European Union. It is also a well - known fact that, in the Norwegian government system and even in fact, the United States is a great support for its membership in the European Union, and this despite the fact that the vast majority of Norwegians are therefore opposed. In fact, I think there is a higher proportion than in Iceland, even which is opposed to involvement in the European Union. What you fear is that the link between the international government system has found that it is dangerous to return the case to the European Commission because it also allows Norwegians to defend themselves correctly and to ask for the advance that the Norwegian Parliament and the Norwegian public consider so important. That's why they keep driving this case. It's not just because they don't want Iceland to take the case for the EEA joint committee, but because once it does, the Norwegians have the opportunity to look after their interests and ask for actual release. Then the plan is to drive through the third energy package to show the way to the fourth one actually fell by itself. Because then these superiors gain real value in the North, and this certainly takes into account the rest compared with what we've heard from this fourth energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u476	Mr. President. Without allowing this talk or that night to be about Norwegian politics, of course, it is just a matter of time. A senator that there is a great difference between the government system in Norway and the politicians, in fact, and the people of Norway as to what should be the policy on the European Union. I wouldn't be surprised if it wasn't a single feeling between politicians and officials as to how to handle this energy package. In fact, we remember that, I guess it was the last summer when the newscasts appeared from two foreign advisers in a field somewhere in Iceland, where they were looking at a cannery. I can't remember what the excuse was, whether it was something about defense or travel, but it was obvious that the Norwegian Minister had come here to try to put pressure on the Icelanders to introduce this energy package, which is part of the clergy class that is very submissive to the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u477	Mr. President. Yeah, me and what. A senator knows how this works. Governments in this country are under pressure and are in line in other EU countries to be a good source. And because of what? A senator mentioned the visit of the Norwegian Minister and a conversation with the barrows, I could just mention one example, relate when we and the Norwegian senators and, indeed, members of Congress from Switzerland, Liechtenstein, and other countries to examine the gold Falls. During the bus, men used the opportunity to sit around a man to try to pressure me to take advantage of the fact that we were going to become more involved in the introductions of something that these specified Norwegians wanted to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u478	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. He mentioned in his speech the legal advance that the Norwegians have made during the induction of the third energy package and the letter that had been written and sent to Europe but not answered 14 months after the letter was sent. I think transportation is fine between Norway and other parts of Europe and the letter should have been received. This is not transportation. It is more likely that the letter was placed in the large food or in the large folder, even in the paper counter, and should not be considered. I don't think we should be surprised if that's what it is because these letters are not relevant to the joint EEA committees or the European Union if they're changing, unless they are taken up at the Committee and that they speak in one voice. Ninety-three. The European Economics Act clearly states that the joint EEA committee is appointed representatives of the Convention. So says, with President's permission: ▪ The decision of the joint EEA committee shall, however, be agreed with an agreement between the Community and the EFTA countries that say one voice. It simply means that we do not send such home - to - house materials in paper form and expect them to be taken into consideration. However, it is interesting that at home we continue and say that we have received this last week a declaration by the European Commission, where it is well said that we can have this warning and that this is the basis of a contract. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u479	A respectable president. About the last thing I'm gonna do. To review the terms of the announcement, which actually says nothing more than acknowledging that Iceland is an island and not already connected with a cable. The admonition received from the wind. One of the more clear examples of benefits and the importance of discussing this matter at the council is that of a contrast officer. There's a why. A senator presented a principle, and not only basic in this matter but also fundamentals that are completely contrary to what the government has held against us at the council and the public in Iceland. You see, the fact is, like what happened. A senator describes that this is not expected to be the case, because it has to be made known in a report, or even not, as the Norwegians with legal requests, their own interpretation or a warning to the EEA agreement, but have to do in accordance with the formalities presented in the agreement until meetings. It is very interesting to consider these eight warnings made by the Norwegians. While we may not have much to do with them, the comparison with the Icelandic advance is somewhat striking. This is much more detailed, making much more clear where the Norwegians feel that their interests are potentially threatened, again because of the third energy package, and where they think they need a warning than the Icelandic way was to write something about thinking that this would have nothing to say as long as Iceland wasn't connected with a cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u480	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think there's a why. A senator has come to the very heart of the matter, the tactics. Why is it that we Icelanders, as great a nation as we are in many ways, and in many respects so often inclined to take a short route or rush when it comes to matters that really need to be handled? That's right. I happen to have these eight priors under my hands just like that, and I'm sliding over them. They are in a way that makes sense, even though I believe that they will have no place like ours because they have no business. But isn't it a little strange that when we have a case like this on the table, it's all about having these demons through, let's get out of here, even if there's nothing on the table? [[The president calls.]] Isn't that a little strange? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u481	A respectable president. This is really strange, especially since the Council has regularly been given counsel on not being good enough for legal purposes, but rather that without being fully developed, it would mean that in such a large, controversial, and important matter, people would take a closer look at things. In fact, it says everything that needs to be said when comparing these Norwegian warnings that we agree on - and it sounds to me as if the Norwegians are in general on the same page that they're no longer in custody, yet they're much more impressed by what seems to be than those imaginary warnings in Iceland. I will discuss this further in my next speech, which I choose to call the Norwegian account 2, this is a working title for that talk, but it will result in a slight wait for my speech on the connection between Cyprus and a sea cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u482	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. It's somehow so that I've been able to think that us Icelanders should learn from the mistakes of others or from the experience of others, if we can put it that way, which we tend not to do. Now it's like, I understand, and I want to ask you why. A senator especially after that. I have come to understand that Norway still has a disagreement on the introduction of the third energy package in that country and that at least part of that case is for the Norwegian government and the unexploited. This may be one of the reasons why I have thought that while we Icelanders should take it easy to introduce this third pack of energy if it is discovered in Norway, although it may not in itself be quite comparable to our legal environment, the European Court of Justice will find that the power package does not meet the Norwegian constitution as I have an opinion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to this, whether he recognizes this situation and whether he disagrees with me, if that is the case, that it may be the most beneficial thing for us Icelanders to speed us up slowly, since we are not inclined to introduce this third energy package until we see what will happen in Norway in a government court of law. Isn't it true that we're just waiting for that conclusion? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u483	A respectable president. I feel that way. In fact, there are a number of reasons why we should wait on this induction. This is where we've been discussing the impact of the fourth energy package. I have mentioned changes in the types that are meant to introduce here, 713, 714, 715 already available since 2013. And this example is a natural incident. Another reason why we should slow down in this regard is that a senator from Norway gives us yet another reason why we should take it slow. By permission of the President, I would like to read a report of the business magazine that appeared when the Norwegian Parliament had settled this case, which says: ▪ The U.S.A.'s opposers reasoned that it is behind the management of energy resources to EU institutions, increases in electricity prices, and decreases in the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. However, the sponsors of the package reasoned that he had no ownership of energy resources or resource management - it would simply be terrorism. Isn't this familiar, respectable president, and actually just exactly like what we've seen here? We have no more than, I imagine, the Norwegian senators have claimed that the energy package was about the possession, unless it's in a hurry to break up the market-sponsored company. However, this route of Norwegian supporters to belittle the energy package in Norway, calling it panic propaganda, unfortunately, is now echoing in the Icelandic debate, but the people who accuse us of terror are not prepared to take a closer look at the situation, using the means of reconciliation that are expected in the EEA agreement itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u484	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That's exactly one of the things I've been trying to draw up in my speeches in part this morning and, in part, in part early this morning, is this widespread fear that seems to be in Iceland's management team about their atheism at the EEA Convention. It is as if the government officials did not trust the EEA agreement, and therefore they are afraid to follow the same course, of course, to refer this case that we now have or part of it to the joint EU Commission as expected in the contract itself. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in this fear of standing in Iceland's court, whether he agrees with me about this so-called panic propaganda that has been claimed that we sometimes, but then people are afraid to go out on their own as the agreement says? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u485	A respectable president. This is just another example of double-knobism from this case, and it goes far in this case that you'll probably just have to think of it as being a semisighted, sort of having a sense of humor for it, when the people trying to scare people by merely wanting to follow the requirements of the EEA agreement and taking advantage of the opportunities he gives us can cause the European community work to peel up and we're isolated and I don't know what and what, that they're still living in the same time and saying, "You're just having some kind of panic." We are simply pointing out the importance of defending this fundamental interest in the nation, such as the Icelandic government has endeavored to do from the beginning, not find any new cause of fear. He comes all the way from the supporters of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u486	V.E.G. President. Today and tonight, an excellent debate has been made about the energy issues here, especially a pack of three energy and a pack of four. Only a vision of the future that is even beyond the corner has been limited by continued induction of a pack of five energy. As I understand this, it is clear that the induction of a three - pack of energy will lead to the implementation of ACER, the EU energy agency, in Iceland. That means that the energy package's rule will certainly go over Icelandic law and stand higher legally. It really means complete and vast power deed of Iceland on energy issues. As a result, any laws and rules that humans may establish in this country, e.g. the possibility of a prohibition on translucency, it will not be worth the paper. I'm pretty sure the cable will be the next step, although followers of a pack of energy say frequently and frequently that there's nothing about the cable in this energy package. The Icelandic company we all know, National activation, is still equipped with the sea cable for Icrek to Britain on its policy list and is information about it on the company's website. Such a cord would, as soon as it would be connected to Britain - that is why I talked a lot about Bgret once before - have a dramatic effect here on the country. In fact, it has been claimed that such a string will lead to better use of the so - called remuneration in the Icelandic energy system, which may be correct. But a substantial part of the amount of pay that would penetrate the cord would become lost and become so-called loss of energy. It usually does not say that the cord will be very expensive and will not be laid unless a steady flow of energy is assured and therefore from Iceland. It tells us, in view of the figures established by the Head of Civilization, that it has to be built here that responds to one Krumburgle's activation or three blending activations just to feed the strings with pure electricity. I don't think there's such an agreement between the present administration parties, so the question must arise: Is the overwhelming authority involved in signing a pack of three energy simply able to overcome any possible Icelandic law or policy barriers that would stand in the way of it? You see, a small part of Europe's energy is of renewable origin. According to Eurostat figures, only 12.5% of all energy in EU countries was of renewable origin in 2010. The target was set on 20% in 2020, but the percentage increased by 0.7% up to 2016 and was then 13.2%. If these goals are to be achieved, about renewable energy, obviously need to be drawn part of cleaner energy something else, and it is not enough to cover the length of the deception we talked about earlier today with paper-conceived clean energy transfers from Iceland in the form of sins release or proof of purity. It's pretty clear what road we are on, and I think it's best to stop and get the opinion of the joint members of the EEA whether we can put a real legal notice on the picture facing all those who want to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u487	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The Senator did well with the devices that would seem to have regarding the possible export of electricity. We've heard here in this talk chair, and probably read on the news or in announcements, that Iceland no longer has the European Union's list of cables. At present, the person knows firsthand that it may take a considerable time to get the European Union to take such a list through and clean up. I wonder if it's just so that the order to take Iceland off the list hasn't come all the way down the pipes. But that's not the big deal. The question I'm asking here is why. A senator spoke, as I understood, that the rules it will set and the ACER follow will go beyond Icelandic law and order. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier tonight the report on the Norway and the fourth energy package. The fine assessment of the farm paper and the translation of this report state that the import and export of electricity must not be limited by national factors. Is that how it is? A member of the United States expressed in Icelandic regulations and laws what the European Union would like to see, that this sentence regarding the fourth energy package is possible to confirm that the market is not to be restricted by national barriers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u488	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Let's say that the string is not on a list yet, then there's no hurry to take it off a list at all, so to speak. It is clear that mine knows that if it's changing, it's going to be more common to the Icelandic rules and laws. It's a bit of a picture that would appear to us in this coal - black report, as mentioned in the Bjord newspaper, on account of a pack of four energy. Now we have our government-relevanting, and we assume that societies have something on their hands, we are told, at least in this article which is an interpretation of this report, that it will not matter if ACER has the view that our pure energy needs to be used to some aspect of the European Union. We will not be able to set up these barriers, and therefore, once again we come to the point of sending a three - pack of energy to the joint EEA committee so that we can get absolutely clear and clear what our position will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u489	President. If our understanding is correct, i.e. that we introduce the types of types that we are doing are in a direct or indirect way letting this surveillance facility, the ACER - that is still in development and shape, so that it is now stated - into our energy market, is not much more important to see what will be the next steps regarding the development of the institution and the tasks that are behind it or how to change it in the future? Now someone may say we don't know anything about the future. That's not true in this case. We know the fourth package is in place. Although he is in a formal process, he is in a home somewhere in Iceland where he is being examined, although we have not yet been allowed to see him. Then you wonder if it's important to stop and say, " Wait, do we have this to open a more advanced supply room because the fourth energy package will change and introduce even harder laws that we need to follow in Iceland regarding this institution? ' Hv. A senator, that is also a question we need to ask ourselves: Do we really want to participate in further development of Europe's common electrical system? Is it not all right to admit that it was simply a mistake for us to introduce a pack of energy at its time, or one of the energy directives, and to say that we cannot continue, so we must get permanent access from that date? We will not back up, we will be able to keep up with what we've done until now, but we can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u490	V.E.G. President. That is a great deal of authority in accepting mistakes. I agree that it would be desirable to revise the way we are. I think of the Landsspike in this regard, but I've been very happy to say that it is now that we are going to reexamine our plans to continue with a land hospital on Ring Road. But okay. When you're talking about electrical prices and how electricity and everything connected to it will develop, I'm giving myself that the same arrangement of land activation, now overwhelmingly competitive, if you can say so, would not remain on our market. It is quite clear that through the induction of a pack of three energy, it was in conflict with EU regulations. There would be a requirement for land induction to be cut down to smaller units because it would not be allowed to continue with such an overwhelming competitiveness at this large market. I can see that we'll then connect into these areas and we'll all be equal, i.e. the value of electrical energy will rise. I don't see how this can end well and reiterate it, which we agree on, that now is the time to look at the joint EEA committee and find out where we're going to go and what we're ready for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u491	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She went a little far over the stage, but I stopped at a certain part of her talk, asking if it would be right for the joint EEA committee to know if we can set legal warnings. In the European Economic Convention, which is the agreement which is the basis for the EEA joint committee, says in 111. Article three of the legal case, by permission of the President. - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The Alliance or the EFTA countries can debate the interpretation or application of this agreement for the joint EEA committee according to the following guidelines. 2. The joint EEA committee is authorized to resolve the issue. It should be provided with all the information it may need to perform a thorough investigation of the subject, with a view to finding a solution that can be accepted by the individual. For this purpose, the joint EEA committee shall investigate all possibilities to maintain the successful implementation of the contract. I have before me the opinion of Jón Hannibalsson, a former senator, a minister and ambassador who is concerned about the same thing. He is more than two - year - old in politics and has been in many places, and he is, in fact, one of, so to speak, the fathers of this agreement as he has come to the same conclusion. I'll throw it out to the ground. Senator: Could it be that we should listen to the joint EEA committee and those who have gone before us and know better?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u492	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for his answer. That is what can be said, though, that we say very often in the Hall these last few days. We simply have a call to send out a pack of energy to the EEA joint committee so that we can get a truly legal warning on what we want to bring in and on our terms. During the past few years, we have been told how badly we have followed the introduction of various factors involved in the EEA work. It's true now that we repeatedly turn it around, that this time we want to do things right. I find it remarkable that this opposition that is manifest here is certainly not necessarily among the entire nation, but I find it remarkable that people oppose it in view of the fact that they have been cast out on the extent of our failure to introduce these factors. I just think that when we hear a man like Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson making this warning and his review so clear, as it turns out, we should listen to it and even accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u493	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and in answer, of course. The senator used the wording unconvincingly. I would like to read, with the permission of the president, Jón Hannibalsson's reply to one of the four questions he proposed in his review sent to the Committee on This Issue. The question is: Will rejection of law-enforcement 3 of the national energy package upset the EEA contract? He himself answers: ▪ The answer to that question is clear: No. The EEA Treaty ensures the Member States' unconvinced right to reject legalization in a designated field, if not applicable or not serving the interests of the State. For this, there are many examples. The rejection of induction does not result in any penalties. The result is that the case is referred to the joint EEA committee, where the case is agreed on. This provides the only security available for safekeeping. Which, like, tells us what to do. A senator said that a man like Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who knows very well and probably better than many and most of us here, gives us guidelines on how to handle matters. Is it not contrary to the fact that this battle is in the back and back of the head, and everything is done to do in contrast with what older and experienced men offer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u494	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. You see, this is an amazing situation we are in right now. We would like to be stopped here and be gone as the legal way. It's amazing that the governments that are standing at the induction of the third energy package reject it and say they've published it, I want to call it declarations. That should be enough, when we have heard talks today and tonight who tell us the contrary, if we look, for example. to do what was stated in Norway on this eight warning, and nothing has been asked of them. It's also remarkable, because now we're with those who are very experienced in dealing with these things, men like Jón Hannibalsson, that they don't listen to his warnings and not just that, he also points out the routes, and I always feel that I'm important, not just putting things out, but pointing out exactly the solutions and better ways and it's going to lead to us doing what's right for us. Therefore, I find it odd to experience these oppositions, and I want to say as someone said today, to run the case through. We are not allowed to see what follows, even though people in a town, as it is called, have been allowed to see what is involved in a pack of energy, perhaps it's just colored so bright that people are content with the nonsense that's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u495	V.E.G. President. I'm going to continue with my earlier talk tonight. There I made up the subject of a newspaper article by Awake! Detective Dave Keating, written for Forbes, and discussed a press conference in which the European Union's Department of Energy went great, the same energy manager that has had a meeting with the highest power. Iceland's foreign minister. I'm going to translate this article lightly from here, since she's in English, but I'd gone over some of it here. It covers, the first part of it, that the European Union has for the first time crossed a red line, crossed the line, which requires that the Community's energy union be made, what to say, the collective and that non-connected systems in the Union be linked to the EU decision. He wrote that in the last two decades an enormous power has been made available to Brussels, but there are certain things that have not been discovered and that are unacceptable. They are English - speaking, by permission of a president, by negotiation, by defense, by health care, by education, by energy, by tax. The last two material, i.e. energy and taxes, and the European energy manager makes a strong comment that the European Union's unanimous approval is needed to change the Community's energy and tax laws. He would like to suggest that such a solution be transferred to a majority vote that would take into consideration the vote on a population scale. It would then be so that a kingdom that was defined within that area and that had many inhabitants would always drum a nation with fewer inhabitants. He makes a special comment in this article to Poland, which has actually been mixed up, i.e. the adjustment of this unrecognised or unrecognised, as it is called on the English language, is now stopped by Poland. There's something people don't accept down there in Europe. This is a small view of what should be contained in the current fifth energy package. He calls this system that we, within our state, call democracy - and that the monotonous approval of the entire state is needed to change these rules - ancient systems. He says the word for word on the English language: ▪We can have the most ambitious futurework to develop an entergy union, and at the same time have a paileoliic energy taxation system ◯ - ◯he fumed, editors of the press. This means: We cannot have the most ambitious setting for the development of an energy alliance in the world, but at the same time, we have an ancient tax system. In other words, Europe is now calling for five billion euros to prevent fossil fuel use and to switch to renewable pure energy, to enter the tax system, and to get back. We can ask ourselves, " What is expected there for me people of Iceland? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u496	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I wondered if it's probably the same energy manager who told Icelanders not to worry about that, because it's quite a common understanding of Iceland's uniqueness. You wonder if any other European states thought that they had some special position some years ago when this common market began. Is there any state that thought this would never apply to them because they were like this, and their combination, and theirs, and so on. However, evolution has been different. It's very interesting as hell. One senator noted that the directors of Brussels consider it very important to look to the way taxes really play with the energy market. They are likely to be looking for some way to level energy prices, even through taxes or by being looked for some sort of subsidization of energy. It is known that many countries, Poland, are an excellent example of a wide range of subsidies for households and businesses, e.g. has been a thorn in the European Union for a long time. You can assume that there's the energy manager here that if you're going to be successful in Europe's energy and climate, you're going to have to fight it. There, he likes to use the tax system. So, we're not actually here today, when we're initiating common rules on this market, we're introducing a certain intervention from this so-called ACER institution, to take a step in the direction to connect to the market that the energy editor is talking about?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u497	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it is the very same energy manager quoted at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs recently and this press conference also took place recently, and the article was written on April 9th. That's exactly what I'm talking about. You can understand, as I have often described in speeches, these continental ideals in the mainland, and the European Union has fought to reduce fossil fuels use and has been trying to further achieve that goal, but now it seems to be another sound in that they believe that the European Union has contributed quite a bit, it is about 5 billion euro, which is being involved in these issues. I would support myself, if this were to be done and really be done by this ACER institution, that our contribution to Iceland in this case might not necessarily be made to be taxed to pay off unclean energy or energy produced by fossil fuels, but to produce clean energy and perhaps more than what we need to drive home and the industry that is within the country, but to put it into these fifth energy packages that we use the resources in a way that best we can serve the total interest of the relationship, end up with the whole policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u498	V.E.G. President. It's like an underline like that. A senator has told us this evening in his speech; this underscores what we have been saying in our discussion for some time, that the European market, i.e. The energy market and the rules and requirements of the European Union are changing constantly, changing. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator mentioned in his speeches that it was actually all like a living market, a living document, these types of the European Union's energy market. This is, of course, because the European Union has set policy to 2030, if I remember correctly, and then 2050, on achieving certain goals and to achieve them, there will be some changes in the rules. In fact, it may not be unnatural in view of the aims of the energy manager that it is beginning to take control of the tax system in order to affect the tax system or to control it in order to influence progress and the results that the European Union wants to achieve by these important goals. Therefore, it is very important that we appreciate it as clearly as possible what the future holds. There are some things we can predict, but there is no need to overlook what we can already see, and therefore we need not predict, but really just to understand the meaning and consequences, and I am referring to the fourth energy package that is available and it would be necessary for us to see what changes it would have, including In that direction as far as it would have been. A senator talks about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u499	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Yeah, it's pretty clear that the deal, i.e. both the contract in the European Union and then the EEA contract are live data or live document. That may not be a good English word. That's right. I agree with that. A senator that it is not unusual in view of the policy that the Community has set out to look for better ways, and most important, in view of the fact that the Community has spent on it, as shown in the paper that I became a medium, five billion euros a year, to counter the use of fossil fuels. Juncker, who is a ◯ Commissar in Brussels, has reported that he has achieved an energy alliance in his power period, but it would still be a long way to go and that he thought when he began his journey in his powertime that it would be late or could never be achieved so much within his time of power. But he specifically says that Europe faces many challenges. Despite the problems Europe faces now, however, they have created a European energy alliance, and this has actually met little resistance or opposition in the European Parliament and Council. I think it tells us that whatever comes in the future will be this way, i.e. We will see the European Economic Area and the European Community moving further in this direction as described here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u500	Mr. President. In my two previous speeches, I had a review of the nation's prime history and I'm going to continue with that story, as I believe we can learn much from it, or as the saying of the saying: "If the past is to be thought, the future will be built. " I had mentioned earlier talks to several pioneers in the construction of electrical stations in the early part of the century, who built virtually no equipment that could harness the water supply to lighten our work with our ancestors and bring heat and light into the homes of the people. It may also be noted that in these childhoods, this activation work was regarded as an enemy, with very little and inadequate tools being present, but the voices were quiet when it became evident that the cattle returned what was expected. The story tells of winning the pioneers, such as. A Bjarni in Hólmi, in Skaftfells County, had all of which were very tricky and characterized by a great sense of view in which idealism played a major role. Mr. President. I went over the first activations and the fact that the larger activations were constantly built and often each new activation larger than the existing and even put up the force of new activation larger than all the power created to the time it was built. Thus, the first major activation of the next microspheres was compared to the later major mines, and although the activation of the Old age in Reykjavík in 1921 appeared to be large at that time, 3.2 megawatts soon became small compared with what later came. Thus, 16 years later, or 1937, that was much larger than the Ellis Year Zone, or 16 megawatts. That record was hit 16 years later with the construction of the 1953 Racial Station, which was 48 megawatts, or three times larger than the Ellis Rivers. In 1960, the power of all of the inducers was installed in a total of 150 megawatts. The next activation after this was a turning point, which I was referring to, in 1969, the station was five or six times greater than the previously inhabited, with a force of 270 megawatts, which was more than all the previously harnessed energy. The energy of Borfellian activation was intended for heavy industry, in particular for the Australis in Straumsvík. It was fresh. It is evident that during a quarter of a century, the estimated cost of activation and distribution system was paid to the population to be worth the risk that the nation would gain the activation and distribution system in debt just before or at the turn of the century. This is important to keep in mind, Mr. President, today as we discuss the future of the resource, the fact that the nation has built up the national electricity system. During the mid - 1970's, the total power in the country has grown to some 600 megawatts, but not all of its hydropower workers are. That means they've also created steam mains. After that, about 1978, several larger fortresses, Sigldur 150 megawatts, retrospects 210 megawatts, arrived. Nine years later, after the next major activation of the day's search, two somewhat larger fortresses, 120 megawatts and 150 megawatts, arrived in 1991. Then, about the turn of the century, there were still two somewhat large fortresses, Sultartangi 120 megawatts and a 90 megawatt Water station. By then, at the turn of the century, the total power in national activations was 1,300 megawatts, and it was interesting to note that today the power is twice as high as at the turn of the century. Just after the turn of the century, there was a great deal of conflict in activation. Energized during those years. Smoke reactivation in 2006, 100 megawatts, Hellishe reactivation of 303 megawatts, which was a new record from the time of Burfells. At about the same time, the major activation of our Icelanders was achieved, and before it was used, we had activated 1,800 megawatts, while the 2007 River Valley activation, on its own, a force of 690 megawatts, with the largest activation that has been used and is still today, 690 megawatts. All this time, several smaller activations have been used without specifically naming them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u501	Mr. President. I love the way I do it. A senator examines the overall context of things based on history. It was nice to hear him mention the pioneers of Skaftfell County. I remember hearing a lot of stories about the genius who actually used leftover parts, things that most people would have thought was garbage, to activate and electricalize. There were locals traveling there. In fact, when we travel to the big fortresses, which are sharp, we can also say. A senator mentioned, too, that although this was even more context, it was Icelanders trying to harness this force to build up jobs and production in Iceland. What I'm worried about, one of many things, actually, about this third energy package, and I'd like to hear why. Whether he or she is developing a significant risk is that this resource and its valuables are moving from home to home, whether in the region or at home, in the sense that Iceland is building up a working life here on land, to foreign companies, and to the profit of a flow out of business in Iceland. I now understand, for example. that the European Union has appealed to treaties against 12 EU states, if I recall correctly, because the initiatives there have not been issued. So you can ask yourself, " If Iceland becomes part of this global market and initiatives here are considered in the context of this whether it's money or not. ' A senator described and built a professional life in Iceland can be lost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u502	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his speculation and question, Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, was moved by a question. He speaks of the danger that this resource, the source of energy, could slip away from us. I believe that one of the most important projects of the politics today and in the future is just keeping the resources owned by the nation so that the nation as a whole can enjoy the products of the resources. I think it's a very important task for the political community not to allow any slips, if it can be said, or given a discount on it, or given in gradually, or in some pieces or dose, to any other person that can lead to it over time - I may not be able to say it is an instant, but in time and time, if permitted, over time, as I think it is here with a pack of three energy. Even pack spokesmen have repeatedly referred to him as not relevant. Why, then, is he being brought into the land? Of course, what it will mean is not in my power to prophesy, but there are things that frighten. You are afraid of a number of things in this package, as well as the ones that follow as we have seen and had to look only on it, that international power always extends beyond and beyond, and small countries like Iceland may be of little value to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u503	Mr. President. Are we not already seeing the evidence with the tremendous interest of foreign investors in Icelandic energy companies on water rights here? And the latest demand to build so - called windmill gardens? In fact, I haven't liked these windmills for a number of reasons, but a good man and a seed in the East believe that I should now give a windmill opportunity, and then, of course, you look at it in that light, and whenever you receive advice from smart people, you do it. Whatever the case, everything is at the same well. There is a growing interest in investing in energy opportunities in Iceland. Is it not safe for them to conclude that they expect to be paid and to be able to sell in a larger market rather than simply stay in the domestic market? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u504	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I think it's extremely important to keep land activation, which has most of the energy available to this nation, as it were, that it should not go to individuals or, as often, to rich people. We saw before the collapse of the bank long before the collapse of the bank that when banks were private and even if they had scattered property then things were pretty quick to happen and as if they were waving their hand on a handful of powerful parties. I don't think it's possible that if we were to go this way with the energy, the same would happen. That's why we have to stand guard, and it's our job to protect the source of wealth that could bring the public to the benefit of energy, as the fish are, and the resources of the country are. It is our primary responsibility to protect it. That's enough to protect the interests of the wealthy, and we should be at the other end. We're supposed to listen to public opinions and, in this case, because of the public fear of the third energy package, Mr. President, we have to listen to him in what he is. What are some of the things people fear? People fear that very thing, losing their grip on what has been built up in the country. And we're supposed to listen. We're not supposed to lose sight of public opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-21-107.u505	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was very interesting, as his previous talks on this subject, i.e. such a historic overview of national activation projects. It is very important to have this overview in the context of this discussion here. I just want to add this coverage of his and enter so-called deep fevers, which are now expected to be the next step in the country's energy supply. I ran into an interesting online article from Reuters News. She's in English this article. But if I record a few of the same points, it says here that projects are being carried out in Iceland, deep-specture projects, preparations for such projects that are being carried on by a large number of people in cooperation with British parties and American and other companies from one 11 countries. This article will help me to understand why it is a very interesting, relatively recent article. It says that the idea is that Iceland will produce up to five to ten times greater energy in this way, i.e. Deep sites. Deeplands are as big as two miles [2 km] in the ground to reach an enormous pitch. [[The president calls.]] The purpose is that this will be an preparation to export energy from Iceland. That's exactly what I was going to ask. A senator in this, how he feels about this in the light of what he said here. [[The president calls.]]
