ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u1	A meeting is a meeting arrangement for the discussion, and there is a separation of sessions. The discussion is expected to last for about One hour. Prime Minister has ten minutes to history and two minutes to the end of the discussion. At the beginning of the discussion there will be a allowed answer from the council of the government opposition to the minister's speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u2	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The President and the General for having this opportunity to review the situation following the execution of a storm that raged here last week from the last 10,◯11. December. It's not overhistory when we talk about violent weather, even as we have seen. With the Einar Sveinbjörnsson bear son of meteorologist, looking back to 1973 to see comparable weather, north storms with sold land pressure, which was comparable, in February, in the center of the Homey Islands. Another such weather was in 1965, but in that weather, the Dalíkík line came to pass too. However, other northern weathers that have been over the country were less severe, yet there were economic storms in 2012 when ice was piled by lines and many electric poles gave themselves. It has also been observed that since 1980, the Landsnet has never been used as a source of salutation and ice for the tensions of the Sputague that have existed in the present form, which is a sign that this was not the usual weather. But this does not change the weather that reminds us of where we live, that we can always expect such weathers, and that we must be prepared when they pass, even if they are better - than every day. First thing I want to say is, it's always scary when such a weather hurts you. This happened, and such damage, of course, will never be corrected. Of course, that is the worst thing that can happen in the same weather. However, the damage to the secular factors is also due largely to lack of electricity, to the cooling of houses, to a considerable degree, to the damage to food at grocery stores. But at the same time, after visiting Northland at the end of the last week, I would say, of course, not all the parties involved, but many of them, it is quite clear that we have an amazing strength in our society, because reactents worked many of the people in their professions, remained with them 24 hours together and actually worked miracles. At the same time, we need to recognize that this weather and its consequences reveal weaknesses in our interior parts that we must react, and I will now trace them. As we looked at our response, the Weather Room's first warnings were released on Sunday, December 8, but on Monday, December 9, warning levels on the Beach and the Northern West were raised to red. On Tuesday, December 10, the warning points in the northern part of the country were raised to red. Red warnings were due to the first occurrence of this weather from the recording of the weather's colour code alarm system on November 1, 2017. Red warnings describe dangerous weathers that have great social impact, and such weather is rare but, as mentioned earlier, we can expect such a rise in the North country every ten years. The Marshal declared the uncertainty of the 9th of December. At the beach in the Northern West and the North, on December 10, the coast was declared a danger. The Forest Strategies Centre was activated at a time. 11 of December 10, and there was a national coordination program. Almost all the roads of the land were cut off because of the height and sound of the weather, except for the Way of Smoke and the Way of Gravit. As a result, roads finder's path, especially north. On December 12, which had opened nearly every main road and was relatively successful in managing the weather's consequences, the country was closed in the north. The result was that the weather was not well - off, so traffic was low. Enlightenment in the weather's leadings was powerful and good. The lack of electricity, which still exists in some parts of the country, is one of the most persistent power failures we have ever seen. Systems were widely broken and had effects, including On Dalíkírd, Coopasker line, as well as other failures in transport systems, the result was that the number of people had no electricity or had limited electricity. The worst was the power outage for three days. It has been worked tirelessly to restore electricity, and circumstances have been difficult to deal with, as I mentioned earlier, by the intense inexhaustration of lines, but there have also been some unusual methods to cope with the loss of electricity. For example, Thor's watchship has seen some of the Dalvík for electricity since Friday's evening. Richard will have to run backup power until the landnet transport system is repaired and there are still lots of spaces in the Rark distribution system, which will take several days to repair. The amount of electricity delivered can be expected during this situation, and the potential dose for electricity can be expected as soon as the job life starts after the weekend. According to public security committee of the State Marshal's Department, it may have been 11,000 people who lived in an electrical lack of electricity during that time in 7,600 homes. The challenger's Tetra system was disturbed by electricity loss but was beginning to return to normal values in the afternoon of December 12 and today all systems are being delivered except one. I would like to mention a special share of the rescue teams, but overall, some 800 rescue teams have been on the job for the past few days. In the northern part of the country, rescues from nearby areas as well as additional teams from southwestern and West. Rescue teams have solved far more than a thousand projects and national assistance requests. It shows that because of warnings about the weather, the disaster - saving Society sent powerful snow cars at key sites in the northwestern and the coasts before the weather hit. Rescue teams have also been aided by health care professionals, including by moving people to places and addresses. At that time, a mass relief post of the Red Cross has been opened in many parts of the country because of the storm, and volunteers have been on the watch there. The rescue teams have assisted with a service company, worked to transport relief stations from town to town. Farmers have been helping find animals and their survival, but as we read in the news today, this is one of the greatest horse deaths for decades. Then, and I've especially called attention to it, rescue teams and volunteers of the Red Cross have visited towns and contacted towns to check their interests, and I know that this is unique for our community, we have a pretty well documented who lives where, so it's taken the initiative to contact people in order to find out the situation. Health agencies have been manned, have not come to dissociate services, and although there has been a major impact on health care, I would especially like to mention the Western Health Organization on the Hampstan River, which was out of power for 40 hours, since there was no backup force to secure electricity. Phone calls on the 911 line were almost 40% over December 10 and 11, so it is clear that these were not normal weather conditions and no natural pressures on all of our people. Clearly, there have been many mental damages, and it will soon be fully appreciated how well - being aggressor has been able to perform. The public also proved to be well prepared, but there are persistent questions left in them that I want to finish. Both short and long periods of time, and in the large context, they are also converted. the status of public defences in Iceland. It has been discussed in the field of national security at an earlier stage, and it consists of an assessment of the public defence system. I believe the monologue is that we must hurry to that work. I know it's the highest. The minister of justice will enter it in his later deposit. We need to realize that even now. Because of the technological changes and the fact that we are more dependent on electricity now than we were to form when the weather comparableed during the 1960's and 1970's, the powerlessness has an extraordinary impact not only on heating but also on communication and is a huge public defence. Another thing I'd like to mention is that I preached national security advice to a meeting, an irregular meeting, as the weather led to a realization of what was going to happen. In a way, it's my job to know that this was an important operation in order for all the members to gather in one place, and I think this will become a lesson to us in the future in terms of the role of the National Security Council. Such situations need to be quick to act, and it may need to be explained more fully when we review national security policies exactly what the role of the National Security Council should be when we receive such warnings. I'd like to use my last seconds to report that the government has decided to put down a group of five advisers. Was the head of that task force with us now a weekend in the Northland to recommend the necessary improvements needed to be done on the insides, both the electrical energy systems and telecommunications, the priorities of action, but also the planning of, because this case is not only about the tangible infrastructure but also about how we organize our human resources, how they are distributed around the country, and how we react when something strikes, such as to form a linker in an impenetrable operation. In particular, there are plans to set up reserve stations around the country, as mentioned earlier by the National Institute of Health at the Swamp that it had to be a backup station. [[The president calls.]] That group will be delivered by March 1st. and I expect we'll be able to discuss these suggestions at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u3	V.E.G. President. Is it not clear to all today what that means when it comes to building up the interior of the whole country? The use of electrical lines from the storm is still under way, and the storm is known to be a major damage to the weather even though not all has been evaluated. There must be a lack of zeal and hard work for all the workers who stood up, both inside and especially outside the home, as well as for the people who live in the affected areas. My question is simple, how will the highest. Ministers will see to it that RUS doesn't fail its only role in safety and public life? It shall be said, The safety of the inhabitants was threatened. In many places it could have been wrong if it had not been for a rescue party and other volunteers. There is a real need for the government to strengthen the rescue forces in the country. Security throughout the country must always be priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter counter. She mentioned two things, first of all, the Public Network of the Kingdom Radio. Now it is so that the State Radio Act specifically discusses its public defense role. Similarly, its broadcasts were not caught, e.g. In Hunish Lake when the storm broke out. V.E.G. A minister of education brought a memo into the government this morning, which reviews when this distribution system was released and where exactly and where is to begin. A minister will review this case, and it will also be considered in the campaign group I referred to earlier. I can agree with what. A senator about the fact that we must, of course, provide information and communication to the people of the whole country. That's where we have a lot of rich demands for State Radio. We also know that because of technology changes and modified social shapes, we are designed to form with a changed period of time when it comes to electronic devices that can receive long -wave transmissions. This calls for planning on the State Radio, but we need to see this in the large context of the public defense system and whether new solutions need to be considered because of these changes in technology. As far as the rescue forces are concerned. The senator mentioned them, so the rescue forces are unique. On the one hand, they enjoy the government's financial contributions, but in many ways they earn their money. They have built up on it. It's not a government agency, and I think keeping it in place is really very desirable. Of course, we need to look to the future budget of the rescue forces, especially when we consider the new financing routes there, with regard to fireworks sales, etc. We need to have a vision of how to do this along with maintaining this arrangement that has been so precious to us in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u5	Mr. President. Such events move us as a nation, and it was good to feel the empathy that the people of the land showed them the people who faced the worst circumstances. Fellow feeling and cooperation are just the reaction in such situations. Not all of this is simple, but there is a clear way to kill the issue of playing groups against one another when we point out a weakness in the interior. Just as Southnesan people do not always understand what people are dealing with at the Redfarves and people at the Redfarves do not always find it hard to imagine how poor people in the world are coping with life. The reality facing different groups is numerous, but ahead lies ahead for all of us, and it is only by means of a concerted effort that we will continue to make. Events of the last days shed a clear light on the inequities of the land. They shed light on equal proportions. The cooperation of Iceland's population is unusually high. A small nation in a large country builds up the largest and most important institutions in one country. However, while necessary, we need to ensure that the infrastructure, whether electricity, telecommunication, education systems, transportation, or health care, is in a small way around the country. The highest. IN THE United States, did not the prime minister join with us to the development of a previous response and infrastructure in order to match conditions for living? If the answer is yes, how are you planning to go to the top? Ministers are working on that? Where will the key emphasis be after the first necessary reaction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. It is of great importance that she said, for when faced with difficult situations, it may sometimes be an initial reaction to playing the exact number of people against one another. We are one nation in one country, we are only 350,000, and they are valuable, so I can join in. A senator that if we want to retain the value, continue to be here as one nation, of course, it is important to match the living conditions and identify the weaknesses we saw in this situation. It is a matter of looking to electricity control, but what? A senator also mentioned other factors that are important in equalizing the conditions for living. Of course, much has been done there in recent years, certainly, in the development of infrastructure, but at the same time we see that there are very important impacts on this disaster. What happens next, asks why. Senator. The campaign group will not be given much time to work. There, representatives of the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Financial Affairs, Transport, Regional and Social Affairs, the Department of Railroads that handles energy, and all of a sudden, I am completely stolen from the fifth Ministry. But that's what's going to happen after, when I've looked into my files. There's five departments that will unite to map, in fact, how we can establish priorities - and we know that this will cost the money, we know - but it's also about planning. It has to do with it as a whale. It is about how we organize our activities to form the public institutions that serve people in all parts of the earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u7	Mr. President. When such a storm strikes, we as a community all depend on the rapid and powerful response of well - trained and well - equipped reactants. Of course, that is the key to our being successful in escaping the storm. But as we know, at least at least there are storms like this that we can foresee to a certain extent. that they will come, perhaps not on short notice. Then it is important to be well - prepared for it as a community. Then you begin to wonder why backup stations were removed at sites where two connections were established. Is there some kind of standard on how to secure an electric outlet, or is this a local self-assessment? Similarly, when plans are made for the state, whether it is a transport plan or a public security plan or whatever, you wonder whether it is an estimate of the need for investment in equipment and other means needed to ensure emergency action when a crisis occurs. Also, I wondered if a telephone company needs to be a part of a public defense plan and have defined a role. They already have a role, but because of changes in technology, conditions may have become rather difficult in some respects. All of these are really very simple questions. I'm not going to the hard questions here, and now because in the ground, we just need to make sure that when bad things happen, when storms pass over, we have ways to keep shallow systems going. Then, after that, we can talk about complex things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir His Smári Mccarthy questions may not be so simple because, of course, I believe that the institutions that we all have were working according to our best knowledge and knowledge. That's what's happening because of what. A senator specifically asks about the reserves and when to remove them, that the removal of such stations has been a procedure when the infrastructure is deemed sufficiently strong to prevent them from being needed. Because we're talking about Northland, we saw this to take place in Hunsar County in the year 2000, that these areas were working on links, improved connections, and that's when these stations are taken. We see now that it was not necessarily right, but I believe that this was done according to the best knowledge of the time, they simply felt that these structures would do it. This needs to go over. I'd like to discuss communication too. Of course, we have different telephone companies, but what happens now is that they open up handbills to improve communication. Since one phone company fell out, another phone company opened up the telecommunications company. Now I'm not gonna pretend to be an expert, but they worked together to improve my relationship. We need to determine if there is any improvement in communication so that the system works properly. You see, this is no complicated question. A senator, but it does not change that we now have an opportunity, because I also view it as an opportunity for infrastructure, to identify these weaknesses and build up so that we are setting up for those that may be in the present system and prevent them, even though we can never prevent such a blow from happening again, the consequences being as great as they can be today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister of this report. I'd like to first say that it's so beautiful and nice to see how we got together in such circumstances and how rescue teams, people all over the country, were exemplary. I'm not going to start talking about what might have been better there or be better prepared. I think, under the circumstances, a person's reaction was exemplary, and of course, we all owe it to the extraordinary selfless spirit of all who came. This is where the weather gets bad, we know it. While there were exceptional circumstances, there has now been some debates regarding the state of our electrical distribution system in the past 10,915 years, at least, about the importance of building up and renewal on the groundline and the necessary distribution systems, and I wondered: " Where is the problem? We set up a new power law 2003, where both transport companies and distribution companies had to be clearly established, and funding was set aside to ensure financing of the necessary structure in the system. In recent years it has been repeated on the call for renewal, including ... ontheline. I remember a report from Landsnet last year showing that in 2018 there were 80% of the energy reductions in Landsnet transport systems due to low ground transport, about 20% of the interval in that year were due to a weak groundline, and this was actually traced back years to time. Is this a distraction in our permit squad? [[The president calls.]] Is this a lack of political leadership? [[The president calls.]] Despite the ongoing discussion of the past 10 to 15 years, what is the problem of not coping with the necessary structure?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u10	Mr. President. First, I'd like to agree with what. A senator, and indeed a fellow. The members of the council here have spoken, I think we can, in fact, be very grateful for the solidarity we have sensed in our society in recent years and, as I said earlier in speech, for the great social force we have in our people who react to such shocks and labors to support and assist people in need. There we can discuss the rescue forces here on the deck and know that they are one of the most valuable things we have, but let us also support all employees working in the institutions that needed to react in this situation. Hv. A senator talks specifically to the public system, and I know the highest. The traveling, industrial, and innovation ministers will discuss this specifically in their later speech. Of course, 25 years ago, the decision was made to put the system on the ground, and we are in that assignment, 2/3 of the system is in place. So there is still much left. What Is the Cause? asks why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. I could believe that there are interconnections, and it's the role of the campaign group assigned to determine if there are obstacles. There's been a discussion of regulations here. Of course, we need to be balanced in our law and order, and it is important that we not sacrifice it even if we need to respond. We need to examine the funding, and we also need to discern whether we are setting priorities within what we are doing, for it is clear that this has taken a long time, although the policy has definitely been taken in its own time, 25 years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u11	A respectable president. We're having a storm. December. and it was a bad weather. At the same time, just in a week, we'll see a bad weather in the United States, damage to Australia because of forest fires and damage to New Zealand by volcanic eruptions. I'm kind of thinking about it, and I know we can thank our rescue crews and their idea of always being prepared for the worst, but hoping for the best. But I think we'll have to spit on our hands and be ready because what's going on with us now if, after a week, we hit the same weather as another week or ten days later, the weather would be even worse? Would we be ready for that? We have to think like this. If you start thinking about this afterwards, it's kind of incomprehensible, if we just look back ten years in time, how the same plant fires are in America years after year, the same plant fire in Australia year after year. The same plants are now in the North. There's a flood in Britain, a flood of mud, we can count it out. But what are we doing? Do we have anything to do with this? We are, for example. with defenses against plant fires in committees. We're just thinking about what to do, how to do it, and what to do. Let's call off the committee job, spit in our hands, do things right now. I have no doubt that the highest. The prime minister agrees with me in that we need to do something right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson. No, of course, we don't have everything on the committee. This place was a mess, not just Rark, not just Landsnet. There were rescue teams, police, fire departments, medical transportation, road transport, and tourism companies who had information that tourists were off the grid. I'm sure I'm forgetting to forget someone, but we saw that everyone went out full distance to react. There was a loss of human life that will never be reformed, but we can undo the damage done. We have, as I said before, to use this opportunity to map these weaknesses. We saw some of them work. Of course, we are accustomed to various disasters in Iceland. Hv. A member of the United States faced a worldwide disaster, but here we have been struck by glaciers, volcanic eruptions, storms, storms, complex disasters that we have been experiencing. We will also do so now, but of course we have and must be, and we are under obligation to review how our infrastructure comes out of this and what we can do better. I think it's pretty clear that there's a special place to look at the power system and the communication system. In this context, there has been mention of the network of Kingdom News as well as the provisional and accessible reserves throughout the country. We can certainly fix this, and it is our duty to fix this so that we will not experience it again in this world. At the same time, we have demonstrated by our response and by all the individuals I mentioned and by many others, that we can certainly react. However, there is also an opportunity in it, which I mentioned earlier, to review the public defence position specifically, to review how we appreciate the changes made at the time have proved to be ours, and how we can make sure that this system works as best. [[The president calls.]] These events really show that this is a huge security issue for the entire nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u13	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech on the storm that took place last week, I want to thank those who were at the front of the row when it came to dealing with the storm. It is, of course, the first to mention a representative of the Landsaver, some of whom are with us today in the hall. I especially want to say what I think is commendable, and that is what Landsbusters have shown by carrying instruments and tools to a country where it was anticipated that the worst conditions would be the worst, which I think many of us and many of us have had to deal with. I would also like to thank Dr. Raricks' employees who have been made out of the Ark in their own repairs across the country. They have had a long day of work for them last week and far from seeing their end. As the council knows, this morning the central Party's report request was adopted to address the questions that arise when such a situation strikes. It is principally thought that we may be allowed to learn from the conditions that were created here. Of course, it's a big surprise that up to 24 hours in entire settlements have run out of power, and we're getting reports that the already connected settlements, such as in Western County, have been released again. I think it's important now that we learn from this one or another, but at the same time we face the problems that may in part have created this. There's nothing new. Iceland has had bad weather before, and Iceland's going to have bad weather again. In this room, all of us are aware that the condition of the electrical power system is not in the way we would like, very far from it. We need to refer only to the 2017 Association's report, since this is the frame in which the costs and costs are clearly identified, so we know what work is in front of us. Fortunately, though, it has only been reduced but first after the storm struck, and the aftereffects were thought to be something that the microns in the face would try to point in a different direction than to themselves. This has diminished, but it is. We see Landsnet complaining about permission of the United States organization's passage of hope. In contrast with a certain example that was mentioned in this context, the rural society took place and said: "It's not like that, it hasn't been on us. We need to find a way to overcome the building blocks of infrastructure into the program and to carry out the work we are going to do. It can't be that when politicians before 15, plus/minus, years ago they were in this hall, they framed the system we're working on so that we're precociously successful about nature, the thought that it would hardly be possible to produce electricity, can hardly build a road, and can't move electricity at all. This could not have been the meaning of those who laid the basis for the environmental principle we have. I think all of us here are environmentalists in nature and believe that we should provide nature and the land with a better condition to our descendants than we were given. But, as I say, we have to be able to carry on projects necessary in terms of national infrastructure, and the decision has been made in many cases at the General Assembly. We must get on, for otherwise we will just wait for the next storm to strike, and we will experience a similar disaster. I'd also like to say that it has been bigger than tears to monitor the situation in many parts of the country, but there are also areas where there was no great news. There are areas that are quite accustomed to connecting the reserve, which are used to relying on themselves when storms pass and failures occur. When it comes to the action that needs to be taken and the procedure takes place, it is important that we do not forget those areas. One thing I'd like to come into is the telecommunications of everyone. It's very amazing to watch how, I'll let myself say communication, which today has become as closely connected to electricity as it is. Today, most of us do not have the good old speed - line phone connected with copper, which decreases rapidly, and when the situation is moderately small enough to say that the population of the rural population is returning to the mire when people with electrical radios can listen to news, which is then told to go to the Internet for information on their status and repairs. At the most, no information was to be received. People in the countryside were locked up in their homes and were, in fact, unable to survive because when the electricity is gone, the pumps are gone by wells, the farms are replaced, etc. Thus, we have no choice but to adjust all our positions by making walking difficult. This will only be done by powerful political leadership, and it must come from us politicians at any given time. I think that on a lighter scale, although there's very little smile in it, that the northern national electric response has been postponed for an indefinite period of time with the incident that took place there. But I think we have to look at it anyway, so the infrastructure has to get to a place where we can deliver the rages of these people without risking society to move on the side, and they're moving decades if not 100 years of time again for a day or a week. I'd like to be happy to know that this group of advisers was put together, expecting much of it in the short hours assigned to him. I don't doubt that there is a full will to bring forward the procedures and measures needed to take place, and it's a good thing that the government doesn't plan long enough to do. Above all, I would like to emphasize that we learn from what has happened and look for all the ways to reduce the quality of the situation that so crystals these days, between the southwest corner and the region, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u14	A respectable president. A storm storm storm is behind us now. Even so, the country has experienced something like this, but we were still a bit vulnerable. We must not let this happen to us, this was a lesson for us because we must prepare for it and face increased weather conditions in the years to come. We're here to see more of these events, and we've got to get ready. There was bad weather all over the country. A storm raged in my district, as in many places, in the northwestern district, and in the north country. They immediately come to mind the circumstances in Theggar and Hunsa County, the Summit where people spent days in power and telecommunications, people and livestock had a great deal of trouble. The saddest thing was that the storm cost one human life, that's what we all feel. It is strange that in spite of modern technology and self - confidence, we might have been better in many respects 30 years ago. Longest of the hanging copper phone in here, and past and reserve might be less secure now, we rely on central electricalization, and even in many places, we have sold our diesel generators. We need to revise all of this. The recent development of the storm has revealed tremendous weaknesses in the infrastructure. Thousands of residents have lost electrical ties, and communication has been in paralysis for a long time, and some of it has not been restored yet. Over 800 rescue teams have spent a day and a night in all the land, and they have done an amazing job that fills every Iceland with pride. Lack of electricity and worn - out communication have a profound impact on the safety and lives of people and businesses. Electric safety must be ensured both in urban areas and in rural areas, and this is possible. The government is partly responsible for the funding of the electrical power system and when it is available, at the most, the ability to build a structure that is impossible. This has been a failure. After the experience we are still working on, there are many questions. Many people think well of land planning and aspects of maintenance of infrastructure and its structure. This is true of the transport systems of electricity, communications, roads, harbors, and airports to name something. We need to review some of the laws and regulations involved in environmental, organizational, and decision making the process more efficient with national security, public interest, and public protection both in urban and urban areas. Some of the factors that involve shallow wood may need to be taken out simply by parentheses. This needs to be done in a calm and serious way. We must not allow regulations to cause us to become stumbling blocks for this work. We don't need to cancel the demands and visions we have regarding existing environmental and organizational policies or principles of protection. We need constant light, but we have not kept on the watch and change is needed. We need to take action, create a new national security covenant, such as the highest degree. The prime minister came in so well, and it is a pleasure to know that it is organized from the experience we have received. Invaders, whether of electricity, education systems, transportation, or health care, should be the least important where people choose to live in our rural country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u15	Mr. President. I think everyone sees that this Adventist worm exposes unacceptable weaknesses in our infrastructure, both in terms of electricity and even more severe in our communications system. Not to be overlooked is the use of electricity for house - to - house heating in many places. The stories of people assembled in the same room with candles on their hands to keep heat should not be heard in Icelandic today. But this is reality, not faking, not exaggerating. We've heard a lot about how the weather has affected companies and institutions. But what about the people? Sadly, their voice has not been heard much, perhaps. Because they were many of them without phone and Internet connections. We politicians are required to intervene in situations that have come up and provide funding and ways to build up and strengthen both these systems, as this is about national security. We're not supposed to pretend to be experts in electrical studies, that's why we have experts, and that's exactly what they have to do. But are the rules of rules with the lawgiver and the executive authority reasonable? We are, for example. with too rigid rules on the cost assessment of land strings? We know that not all lines can be placed in the ground technically. As a result, such lines need to be carefully selected. Should we not set the policy of setting all lines on lower suspenses in the earth, such as. Davík line? A sheep's line, of course, is finally about to come into effect. Today, we will discuss an exceptional number of subjects and will benefit from our study of the Bible. So I'm not going to stand here and point out guys who are guilty. This case is bigger than that. It's a case that's not supposed to be political, but we all have to stick together and change the system. Inboxes, whether of electricity, education systems, transportation, or health care, should be the least important where people choose to live. Despite the promise, however, the inhabitants of the country are kept in constant uncertainty about the future. Mr. President. The government's priorities should be to settle conditions and contribute to the well - being and safety of people throughout the country. We who are sitting at the Council have to hold this up. The declarations of will, reports, and campaign groups are not enough. Now we need action to ensure that anywhere in the country can be found and that jobs with a secure access to electricity, transportation, and communication. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u16	Mr. President. This discussion is certainly not unnecessary today after the amazing events we witnessed during the week. I've got four minutes, I'll try to make good use of them, but I can't get to anything I would've wanted to say. It is not easy to put yourself in the footsteps of people who were isolated from the storm for hours, even for days, without electricity, without phone, without radio, and in some cases without heat. Going to that place was useful, i.e. In the Dalvík, Mountain settlement, and the rescue center in Akureyri, and then I'll have the chance to go to the Swampstangs, the Continents, and the Sheep's Hare tomorrow and meet people there. It matters. Also, it is not easy to put yourself in the footsteps of receivers, rescue teams, repair workers, and others who are still working hard to do in a disastrous situation. So I have to use this opportunity here and thank you again for it. We have to learn from this, strengthen our systems, improve the processes, and increase the reflexes. Therefore, the government decided to set up an action team to reform the infrastructure, which will provide suggestions on the growth of infrastructure and measures that increase and improve the management and response, such as human resources, tools and information. The situation on Landsnet's lines is that repair at Húsavík ends today, repairs at Davík's end tomorrow and repairs at Kaposker line should be completed this weekend. There are about 20 men in the field. The damage to the salmon year line is being assessed and the repair is not clear at this time. For Rarik, disturbance in Hurfjörður and Centered last night, so several towns from the Smoke School and out into the Waternes have run out, whereas in the rest, Rarisk's nearly 11 - mile - wide line system has been run. Reservation is driven before Dalíkík and the northeast corner, Redfarves, Thors Harbor, and Bakkafjörður, both urban and rural areas. The work is done between Dalíkík and the river forests on the other side of Ólafurfjörður. As a result of these events, it is appropriate to mention that in the fall, the Landsnet requested an offer to several capable oil stations. Each station is in the range of 0.7 in a megawatt, but a total of 6 megawatts will be bought in this phase and 6 more, a total of 12 megawatts. The sites will be located where the risk is considered the most important but could be moved otherwise with shame and shame. According to Richard's sources, to a growing extent the company has developed a portable reserve and will consider whether it can be done even better. In stressing the construction and use of land-strings, Riarc points out that the company has decided 25 years ago to place its entire network in an earthline, as we have mentioned, and to build all new structures. Since then, there have been 25 superintendents and no air lines, nothing but ground cables. Every year, there are usually about 200 miles [200 km] of older lines added to the ground, apart from improvements in the system. I mention this both because it is important to keep this in mind, and it is also difficult to imagine what the situation would have been if these changes had not occurred. In the past year, we presented an effort to speed up the triune process, which, of course, includes geographing, and in view of the last days, this effort is even more important, and it would be my good investment to put increased power in it. But it has to be in line with the distribution costs that we have discussed here many times because it is not acceptable that the rural population itself has to carry the necessary improvements in the system, especially when we look up to the point where more than built up was not established. Then there will be the exchange and need for additional investments in the country, and the cost to the small ones cannot be left to that extent. Large and growing differences in electricity distribution costs are neither fair nor in accordance with the general will. We have carefully charted the ways in which we might be able to spend these differences, and we need to take a position on which steps are most practical and reasonable. Finally, I stress strongly that we increase effectiveness in the regular work of the permit team, which is alluring, slow, and inaccessible. There are many opportunities, and I am convinced that an increased understanding of the need to correct the situation so that we can prepare all citizens of the land properly. A workgroup on review of legislation on environmental impact assessments is at work. That work is important, and I'd like to mention, of course, that it's not like we're at zero. We have a lot of work going on, many action is going on, and fortunately we are on the right track, even though we need only to reevaluate our priorities and maintain a firm view of the work being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u17	V.E.G. President. After the storm during the past few days, the serious consequences of the storm have been to appear, as we heard in a report at the highest level. Prime Minister. Once again, however, it becomes clear what we Icelanders do well to have, both volunteers in rescue and relief forces, but also police personnel, land security, Special Forces, rurals, the Red Cross, the Road Building, and so on. The opportunity to visit the area to listen, understand, and see how devastating such storms have affected entire communities was illustrated. It was admirable to watch the people working there, and they were prepared to respond and save what they could and help a fellow citizen. Thor has even. save large sections of the Dalvenians on electricity so much that from the start, this option of the ship might have been useful because of lack of electricity could have become useful to society there. Then, in a certain area, the pressure grew tremendously because of the tragic accident in Núpá, Sólvadal, which made us all anxious. I want to thank those who shared in that search in dangerous and challenging situations as well as all other reactents. A respectable president. At my table, public security is being controlled, and the government's policy in public defense and security is now being closed for three years, and I have hoped that this work will be completed in the first part of the next year. However, what I want to do in particular is the important follow-up which must be active after the onset of a public defense situation. Therefore, it is necessary to implement the P.R.P., conducted at the General Assembly of November 27th. The committee is a state-of-the-art independent committee acting by law on the terms of the Generals. It is designed to study and evaluate the implementation of public defences so that there can be a lesson in the experience and thus contribute to an important improvement. This programme aims to prevent the implementation of their own actions or those of the people responsible for their actions. The implementation of the Committee's tasks and tasks has not been established, which has not been fully implemented. I've made arrangements to activate the committee and to provide her with research and reporting for the storm during the last week as well as to put the full priority on completing the Regulation this week. This week's committee will also meet, but it is intended to investigate the programs under which the crisis was established and how respondents, including full emergency response posts, coordination and administration stations, police, police operations, fire departments, National Guard and Public Defense Committees. The committee is to be a security valve to investigate response, deal with what may be wrong, be a minister - general, and, above all, a reformer. This is important and it is important that the management committee succeeds in assessing how to achieve it in our public defenses last week, as well as getting an analysis of the measures that will be taken in order what may go better in this category and I will put it in full priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u18	A respectable president. There have long been reports of serious conditions and weaknesses in the distribution system of electricity, one of the community's life - styles. Along with communication and transportation, this is a basis for national security. It is clear that order is far too complex. It's been delayed, and it's very important that there's going to be some improvement here. At present, there is a change in environmental assessment laws. There we have the opportunity to unite in providing for those whose national security comes first, taking it out of this so inefficient process, and giving it total priority in the structure. This will be a great expense in the construction of electricity systems throughout the country. We're talking about tens of billions. At the same time, it is very important that we look for ways to further the work of the energy industry and valuables across the country. In this way, we distribute the best cost of these projects. Thus we are able to continue the advantage Iceland has had by inviting its citizens to inexpensive electricity. We'll have to build this up at the same time. A respectable president. The consequences of last week's events are great, but it's not unknown, and despite the fact that we're going to take a big, big step right now in order to ensure the best fixation in the coming years, we're going to stay at this disaster. Of course, uncertainty was the worst. It was worst for the people who were home, lost electricity, lost telecommunications, radio, thermals in many cases, and it was so crazy that it didn't go away. Words cannot express the reaction you have heard from people who had such a situation. It's unacceptable. In this reaction, there are once again true rescue teams. We've had this backdrop in the country's public defense system before. There is no need to worry about such things as ASI leaders now letting light shine that rescue workers engage in other people's work. Our rescue forces respond when another system, which is just mighty, cannot cope with the problem. This has been the case, and this is how we have built this unique group of volunteer forces that we have joined together to support. They will respond when the daily reaction is not in control of the situation. Of course, the basis for this volunteer work is the people who make up the units, thousands of people all over the country who are prepared to work tirelessly on training, financial resources, and reflexes, and be available at any time of the day. These people have performed miracles in society and have earned the trust and respect of their fellow citizens. For every hour at the call of these people, there are 12 hours behind training, at financial resources, in maintenance of equipment, and so forth. We must protect the independence of these farms. It is very important that they do not come under any form of government custody. These volunteers will be expected to yield. We need to protect these resources. There have been conflicts and criticism of the fireworks sales of rescue teams because of temporary particulate pollution taking place at the end of the year. We need to work on the more extreme arrangements in that area, but we must not go to any extremes in these areas. Such independence from the government must have been guaranteed in this regard. Alternatively, this vital activity will lose its power in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u19	Mr. President. An old saying that houseburn is better than whaler in the first year. In this saying, it crystals the dark world view that things are best used to getting used to because everything can go to hell. A key paradox of success is that it follows a belief in continued success that is of no benefit unless the ability to do so is reduced. For most of the 20th century, all Icelanders were fully aware of their own inadequacies to the forces of nature. I remember, for example. left in my youth a regular test run in the Western Western Sea fires, and we built the towns and connections between them, knowing that everything can happen; avalanches, volcanic eruptions, barrels, and storms. When we talked about living in a harsh country, it was because we understood the danger and not to beat our chests about how cool we were. President. Premium costs money. Buying past the forces of nature costs. Good infrastructure is society's cash policy. For a long time, a good understanding of the importance of solid structures was being made, but as new-free thinking of stable excel fruits at the expense of everything else, the willingness of governments to finance public security was increasingly reduced. Sadly, the present government has stuck to its dangerous course despite its beautiful promises. The three groups all praised the extensive election infrastructure and, in fact, use the alleged purposes as their main excuse for the administrative work. They should now enter the infrastructure structure, but two years later they plan to put the internal security on a committee to be submitted in March of the next year. This same government then proposes a transport program as good as ensuring a resolution in the infrastructure. There is a direct connection between the failure of the government to finance such projects as, for example, a project. building on a new elf - year bridge without the access of a private member and because the backup generator has been removed from the towns where two electrical connections had come, for as everyone knows, there are no more than two posts, or even more than two posts, which can be thrown off the wind in the same area. And accidents never happen on bridges, and bad things happen almost always in chosen places or abroad, don't they? The late hospital's attitude is that there should be no flesh on anything, everything should be excel-conditioned, but nothing must be socially efficient. Never build for the people unless there is some sort of profit to be obtained. A government that boasts of stability must make it clear what it means by stability. For decades, the questionable stability foretold by the Independence Party has resulted in one predictable catastrophe after another. President. I'm not after making this particular storm a political issue, but we have to watch the big movie. This conversation is not about weather or storms or natural forces; it is about persistence, about persistence. The storm that passed last week was powerful, but it was not unique in any way. We have, for example. see storms like those mentioned earlier. We know that such storms may come every five or ten years, and we may know how to prepare and have done so well. There is evidence of a good infrastructure of time that the situation was not worse than today, but because of the failure of the politicians and the failure of the founders. It is a political decision to erase toughness from the basics of the country. Yet, there is reason to commend respondents, especially country rescue teams, who should receive all the support we can offer them, but they should not be a substitute for government investments in infrastructure and equipment. President. The motion of the liberal Pirates in these activities is that we adopt an older and more conservative attitude, that we distance ourselves from the ecel economys, where nothing can be done that can cost us, and instead of building stress tolerance into the whole community by investing in the best possible infrastructures, and not waiting for the private people to feel that they can make money. In connection with climate change, we need to establish political goals. It is estimated that the combination of sea temperatures and air temperatures, higher temperatures, greater colds, stronger winds, exaggerated tides, and even higher risk of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, as the glacier and the earth's crust move. We need to look at the collective and realistic persistence of Icelandic infrastructure. We may have to rely considerably more on their resistance development in the coming years, and if we are lucky, we may even be able to sleep better if we know that we have the community in cocoa.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to start with the words I fell here less than a week ago: The situation will accomplish much during a disaster, but we all have to work together on the consequences. There was a disaster storm, a line storm with massive salutation, icework, and bulge. The weather has come and will come. The weather covered most of the country, but the line weather covered the entire northern region. It was not the same in any of the two settlements, and it cannot be said that the response and the consequences were in the country, depending on the country. I am grateful for all the preventive work done that was done, causing damage; weather forecasts, clear warnings, and reactions of people in the field. I'm not going to stop at the power system for a long time, but I'm not going to mention that the parts of the country that now live with the most secure electricity must not land behind the order of the building that is now ahead, although they have been best equipped with backup in these situations, such as Westerns, Redfarves, Thord, and Bakkafjord, for example. The question has long been obvious to the public defense: What is your equipment? The management of public defences is with the state and rural communities, but when faced, the savings of every community and rural society in the people where they live, the skills they possess, and the survivals they have access to, such as background and oil supplies. Risk assessment, action plans, planning and training of action and field management are important to all communities. Senators' experience from the autumn of 2012, and the Hole-In-The-Wall eruption, e.g. to benefit from this assignment. Knowledge and preparation are passwords. The number of people who know each day is reduced without constant access to electricity, heat, and communication. Hence, even if we hope that such subjects will rarely arise, we have good reason to prepare the material for instruction with good advice and guidance. Full reexamination of telecommunications is ongoing. Let's take advantage of this opportunity and define general security requirements for the state radio communications and distribution systems and when a public defence situation can fully demand access to telephone calls regardless of business relations. There's no solution to looking for guilt. All of us need to examine ourselves. Let us see what we can do, what we can do, what we should do, what we should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u21	A respectable president. The campaign that swept the land was difficult for many. A man jumped back a few decades. We wake up with a bad dream and are not ready for these events. Our life and existence are linked to electricity. But there are many factors that made the weather worse, the good, and the powerful, as well as the warnings sent out by the people. Maybe it's the best defense. The parties were prepared, and rescue teams were sent to assist in the areas where they could expect the worst of situations. That's for sure. The situation that created in the northern part of the West was very serious, and we must take care of the whole process and keep them from returning. It's hard to believe that there were no more reserves. For 30 hours, clinics and nursing homes were free of electricity. Communication fell out, and there was no communication, and there was no way that people could tell about it as well as the need for scattered workers in the area. In the West, local knowledge of such situations has been maintained over the years because electrical security is so uncertain in the region and that local knowledge is so important. She doesn't have much to do with it. We can lay strings on the earth, but we will not let knowledge disappear in the earth with its possessors. They need to be strengthened and recognized that we need strong, local, network and telecommunications through a country that is familiar with the environment. In such a situation, we feel the importance of also approaching a local doctor. The best thing to do is to take care of the whole problem, the crazy thing, and the better thing to do, to make sure that such a situation does not occur. Clearly, the transport systems of electricity need to be ensured, to protect dams better equipped to build around them. Similarly, there is a strong way to strengthen the distribution system. I also refer to a speech at the highest. Ministers of industry, Þórdís Gylfadóttir Kolbrún, the daughter of Golpha, in that connection and under her word. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u22	A respectable president. ▪ Is the modern - day Akureyri Sodom - the Lord's punishment? That was a headline in the German of March 7, 1969. The reason for this headline was the so - called Linda weather in Akureyri. A storm of 12 winds, more than 20 feet [32 m] per second, is the estimated wind concentration on March 5, 1969, in the so - called Linda storm. Dalíkírdine was built to cope with Linda's weather, but she went like so many other lines in the north. On December 10, 2019, the weather was a storm, a disaster. We live in Iceland and this can happen and it's gonna happen again. It is always simple to point to someone and say: "You have to do better next time, and why wasn't this done? We can all do better, not only government agencies and rural areas, but also individual residents of this country. While the project will arrive only after 30 years, we will gather and prepare for the next event. Let's improve communications, cross electrical transport systems, renew and strengthen. This does not change, however, that there is always a need for backup. New, powerful lines in the air or on the ground may yield, and protective structures may also be left behind. A respectable president. We live in a country where the weather can be a disaster and the forces of nature. Let's live with nature, for it will not be harnessed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u23	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank first and foremost all of those who contributed to this great attack on the land, whether we are talking about the rescue teams, the team members, the professional drivers, the police, the Weather Service, all this response, the wonderful volunteers, and especially the families themselves, who experienced many of the first times very difficult situations throughout the country. It is in exactly such a situation, sometimes painful and also tragic, which, in my opinion, is a good thing in our Icelandic society, of whom many have been told about, empathy and elation. But I would like to ask, Did the weather come as a surprise? No, it wasn't surprising. That was a lot of warning. Did the conduct and help of the resourceful reacters come surprised? No, of course not. They were ready. Did the weakness of the electrical power system surprise you? No, the weaknesses were not surprising, for local authorities, job drivers, local people were often asked for a lack of electricity security, that there was no inexplicability, no security. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister especially before the talk and for talking about solidarity. We are one unit, one nation in one country, and I especially want to thank them for their words, for I have to say, as it is, that I have not found great dignity because ministers of the Independence Party and forwards directly, some of them, are striving to face people, groups, and even parts of the country together. They have taken up this difficult situation in order to run, e.g. ... rather than extending this important task as a community project, such as the Supreme Authority, do drop between the country and its capital area, which, of course, is truly unscrupulously poor. In his talk, the prime minister immediately put the people together in a single task requiring response, requiring action for the people in the area that could well be marked and still live in the same places, such as Dalvik, with limited access to electricity and to a life - threatening job. I understand that the true meaning of the word light machine has truly been demonstrated. Keep in mind that exactly the Ministers who served people and groups together are ministers and representatives of the same categories and the same stakeholders and have used approximately the management of energy and settlements from the republicC. So that doesn't mean for the highest. Minister to stick his head in the sand and stand out here and be absolutely surprised at the situation. I think we need to get this back on track. My experience in this ideal period is that the old classes may not be very willing to do so. We've requested a special week in Reunion to sit in meeting with the senators in the districts, where we don't have members of the council, in the districts of the country. Not yet I say, but we'll have more after the next election. But what has been the answer for the 1st members and the pointmen of these elections, in fact all from the Independence Party? They don't want to let anyone in. That is not the way it is to approach it, for the work we are facing is the work of the community. It is true that we can face natural disasters here on the south corner, the southwest corner, just like west, north, east, or south. That is why we must approach it as one nation. Like I say, we all want to help. What has happened since then when we have gone to that area? We haven't been allowed to sit in this meeting, but we've been asking for meetings in the countryside. It has been obvious that number 1 - since health problems - is promoting electrical security and distribution, that the situation is not acceptable. Hence, this is not to be surprised, nor should it be least, as I said, to the governmental groups that have handled that matter in the first place since the land became independent. We know that electricity security has to be fixed in the West, northwestern, Northeast. So there is a great need for reform, and that is why it is stated by law. Let's not get involved again. It's, for example. It is known that the aerodynamic lines in the Black Valley and the Valley are mostly from 1982. More than 30 circumstances went into the midst of this tragic situation. Modern power systems require equipment from the 21st century, not the last. We also know what it's like with the interconnector, not to be surprised. There's a lot of hope here. Why didn't they build over the network? This needs to go in and take a special look. It is possible to ask here, as one of the Agency's senators at the advance party did: Do you have any organizational adjustments in Richard, where local activity has decreased and monitoring of the region has been reduced, affecting the course of matters? The telecommunications that should, of course, be built for the future, and Iceland all jumped incredibly high in ancient Greek. So, what's our message in Reservation? That we're going into action. It is certainly necessary to map, and I would like to welcome the government's special campaign group and encourage the Prime Minister to celebrate the fact that this will be a party, not a fighting group. Let's build up all political parties, don't think it's a government and a political stand. Let's get everybody started. Like I said before, we all want to help. We need to make sure that all those involved, whether it's a land rest that needs a natural living, have a certain amount of space, and I want to say something. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who said that independence would have to be preserved, allowed to stand on his feet, provided the support they need - we have to be careful that all the rows, the whole chain, can work, shruggy when necessary. Now it's not, and that's why I want to encourage the highest. Prominently, the prime minister who has handled this matter well. I encourage her to take the lead and let us all come to support what needs to be done, not just in words, but in action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u24	Madam President. I'm not that type of person when something goes wrong, and we think that something has failed to make me want to stay a long time trying to find the blame in exactly what is to teach - or who, unless we can use it as best to prevent such a change in order to work together to improve the situation. That is exactly what I have been pleased with the government's reaction to the weather, how it has been new to do so. We need to work together to correct what needs to be corrected. We're not exactly at zero point, because we've been working on some aspects of the structure of the transport system. We're setting up energy policy, we're even working on a regular process involving environmental assessments and other such. It is extremely important that the system be efficient but at the same time protects the views of nature and its protection and the right of the public to have opinions about it and access to information there. President. The 13th discussion in which we all agree that working together may not really add much to the discussion. On my own, though, I would like to say that I was attending a climate conference in Madrid when this was over and watched carefully the news from here. What stands out before me is the pride that I felt and could discuss with my associates at the climate convention, pride in the manner of reactents, public defenses, rescue teams, and the people of this country, all alone, gathered together to do what could be done in these extreme situations. For that, I will be forever grateful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u25	A respectable president. We've been talking about the last hour of the storm. on December and how we can learn from this. I think we just have to admit that we had our pants on our heels. We need to get them away from us, we were too careful, we slept on our guard. If we are not going to admit it, we are still in denial. We have a whole generation of young people who do not know weather colors, as we older people have known in the past. I was not surprised by the storm that struck the country right now. I have experienced similar weather and even worse, both as a policeman, a sailor, and as a member of a rural country. To react in such a way to be surprised that this can happen and trust e.g. on electricity - we trust the electricity to hold. When you're hooking up a three-phase electricity on a farm with 100 cows, which is the perfect light and only electricalized, it's said, "No, no, you don't need a backup station, it's totally working. It falls out for two, three hours at the most. It fell out for two, three days. We've arranged a double system, and no one's thinking that there's any chance that a hospital might run out of electricity. No, no, a hospital, how can you think of that? It was just forgotten that the backup station had been taken at the Ummbourg. She was kind of in the way. No one ever thought about setting up someone else. This is how we've floundered asleep to fragility. As I said before, we can't learn from experience. We see around the world volcanic eruptions, storms, water and mud flood, forest fires, fires. I'm most afraid we'll be waiting for this to happen and the short-term memory will be here so that something will happen after three weeks, four weeks, a month, and we'll forget about this. Things will still be mentioned. We still don't have to do anything. In fact, what we should do now is that we better activate our rescue teams and get them to plan things better. They know this, from A to Z. That's what we're supposed to do. Then we always say, "Most people have cell phones. " But they fell out, they fell out. They can't be used all the time. Then they call you old-fashioned and something weird for having a home line. Why haven't you gotten rid of this already? I don't even think about getting rid of it because I know from my own experience that it's working. I remember that at the time a man always heard about this Tetra system that it would be absolutely definitely, bulletproof. Was it? No, it fell out too. What does that tell us? What does this tell us about what we must do? It tells us that we need to reevaluate all of this, and we need to do it now. We don't need any names, we're supposed to stop and sit down and start because I'm really scared that we're going to get into a bad situation. I only talked last year about the risk of forest fires in the Valley of York. It was dry last year and we were lucky. We are to learn from all those around us how they apply to this, and we should be ahead of us. We're supposed to get into it right away, so that there's nowhere else to go. Another factor we need to consider is a way to escape from the capital. What if there's going to be a disaster in here somewhere? How would people on its Seltiannes get away if they had to make room there all by one, two, and three? Hopeless. We're not thinking like that. - She'll just come back sometime. It's just a bit later. It's a little secondary. Everybody with a bus. We're not going to run with a bus if anything happens. We have to think outside the box. As never before, we must walk about things in such a way that we have everything on top and start thinking ahead and right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u26	Mr. President. First and foremost, I want to thank you. Councilmen, the solidarity I sense in this hall, agree that it is important to correct the flaws we have felt in our interiors. I heard it coming. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, said, that it is important that the council be informed of the work of the party, and I have already contacted the chairman of the campaign group and asked that it be assured, once this work is done, that the council representatives will have an opportunity to review that matter. It has been discussed as to whether we have increased sufficient donations for infrastructure. Well, we've made a substantial increase in the tangible wood, so about a lot, about 45% since that government began. Then I'm not talking about an increase to the indiscriminate structures, such as health and education systems, where we've increased the structured expenditures on close to 115 billion since that government began. Of course, we are building up these wood, of course not that nothing has been done, and when we look back to the past, we must not forget that, when the weather was going through, it was nothing small. We must not forget the story. During the 1968 plague storm, 26 people died. Should we recall the avalanche, which we all remember here in this hall, 1995, where, on the other hand, 20 and 14 perished? Then, 1980, there was a bad weather. True, this situation has already resulted in irreparable damage to a young man's death, but this does not change the fact that secular harm can be corrected. I would like to use my last seconds to thank again all the officers that have stood up, Landsaves and Rescues, the police and the Federal Police Department, the staff of local personnel I did not mention earlier, the medical workers and firemen, the Landland Guard who certainly responded tremendously quickly, the Road program as I went to the previous speech, the Weather Service I mentioned, and the assembly center on Skagaind, the Red Cross, and the media, which, of course, tried to inform us if we have been warned of a weakness in the public system that we need to improve. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I thank you for the good thinking I feel here in the hall and am determined to make things better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u27	A respectable president. I still give a physical speech to this part of the program, and it relates to the work being done here. I still want to make comments to the procedure involved in the processing of this case. Last assembly, I was discussing that I believe in being the highest authority. Minister of Justice on the need to work on changing this procedure, and I would like to use this opportunity to describe the work and hope that it will be finished before we settle the same matter here. I will not vote for this case any more than in the past, but it has nothing to do with the individuals who now receive Icelandic citizenship, and I hope that they will be good, and bring honor to the citizens of the country and nation, but I repeat that I am stating that an updated procedure will be introduced and completed before we will be in the same position at the end of the spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u28	Mr. President. Just to tell you what. A senator is the bill for a change in the law of Icelandic citizenship for the treatment of a global and educational committee. This means that there will be at least There are considerably more cases in the administration field than there are today that should serve the purpose of greatly reducing the opinions of the Council. For word's sake. This information should be revealed by a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u29	Mr. President. We are on the final stage of a discussion about the birthworm and, like a whale, the whole family. This morning, members of the council are aware of a significant discussion about the best way to arrange and arrange for an acceptable landing, i.e. that we do not abandon the advantages of the present system that ensures a child to be with both parents if they are present and that there is some share of the rights between the parents and them. That's the bill and the existing adjustment proposal, i.e. to stick to the exchange for 2020, four months for each parent and two months for a joint right. It is this so - called four, two, well - meaning arrangement that is not a reference to sports studies, but in 2021 it is set up in a provisional law. Councilmen may study and have been asked again, that the right to 12 months of birth is unambiguous, but it is put in the hands of social and child - care minister to provide a prime measure for the final change for 2021, although preoccupied that the foundation of the exchange is the right of both parents, this so-called four, four, two systems, and that the prime minister of the transition is only about the two months that are being added. V.E.G. This morning a minister made quite clear that he wanted to submit such a bill and that he would base its conclusions on the work of the current review committee. I believe that as we have seen, it has been as comfortable as we can get to the point of failure. Many members of the council came to see what would happen if a minister did nothing - or if the council did nothing, what then? Then there's a problem, and I restitution that it's not the intention of the movers to land, but it's the back insurance or the backup for these important rights, putting in the following new lawsuits in temporary terms. I got it. I got it. Senators to pay close attention, Mr. President: ▪ Be a bill according to 1st. not approved for birth registries, however, would be 12 months for children born, adopted, or taken into permanent fetuses starting January 1, 2021. The same should be true of birth strength. And then the Minister shall recommend the change of the two months that we add by Regulation. The Regulation shall apply until a law agreed at the General Assembly has been established in which the 12 month court of parents'right to birth will be changed. Mr. President. I don't think this can be any clearer than that, for the matter is not very simple. I'm totally willing to take it upon myself that I've been involved in a slight entanglement for members of Congress, but that's sometimes when you have to land that you get into some spins that eventually lead you to the right conclusion and I think we have it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for trying to explain to us in the U.S. Senate this simple matter, which has become extremely complex. I think I'll be right about it when I say that we've got the fourth adjustment form for the more part of this case, which is about going to biographs that were made and extending the birthworm to 12 months, i.e. ten months next year and 12 months later. This very simple language has suddenly become an almost impregnable mountain. I'm here to ask what. A member of Parliament, whether they had been hired on Friday immediately, when the major part began to circle with his own motion of calling the case into a committee and receiving a professional discussion instead of forbidding such a discussion in the Committee as the greater part did, to get a professional to guide the Commission on how to resolve the issues the government would then have handled. Secondly, I'd like to ask questions at 3rd. changes in the proposals of the greater part now that it is assumed that if the Minister does not issue a bill, the Minister of Regulation has been authorized. Is the senator not aware that the Council is the legal authority and that members of the Parliament can present bills to be approved or denied, but do not have to wait for permission from a minister to submit a bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u31	A respectable president. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir The Helgadóttir, in the outworking of the case and its dingus at this time of the year, is part of the biographies agreements. It is true, though, that, as the United Nations knows, the prolongation of the birthworm is also part of the government covenant, and if I am not mistaken, most political parties in Iceland are wrong, if not all of them. It's being arranged here. In terms of whether the matter should have been further discussed in the committee, we have been set aside for a relatively short time to discuss this matter at the council, as I entered in my history at the time, and the landings we now achieve are the ones that have been introduced. I really don't think that if the committee had extra aid, it would have landed another one than this one. With regard to the Regulation as well as anyone. A senator asked about the question that with this device, we are setting a minister very clearly in what way he should be the supreme minister. A minister must work on the specific regulations that are to be carried out and to be expanded by the regulations such as these are, in effect, measuring that the Regulation should be submitted in an intentional manner, i.e. The Regulation shall state the details of increased rights and not the limitations. Perhaps that's what I consider the key to this. We're telling the Minister what to do by means of this Regulation and this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I realize that extending the ore to 12 months is part of a government contract, and that is why you would have thought that it would not be so presumptuously complicated for the government to settle matters. It's been so fucked up by a lot of it. The welfare committee that it has become kind of grueling here during the last days of the council. There's been an emergency emergency landing in an adjustment form of more parts - if something may not happen. We are the lawgiver and I second to the secretary of this warrant -- whoever becomes the social minister of the next fall, because it has certainly been replaced by a minister of this government, and even changed governments completely without anyone expecting to have it, and the distrust shown in this adjustment does not indicate much confidence between the administrations, so I wonder if it really is to increase confidence between the classes, to move a minister into a Regulation to call the exchange of birth reactors. It's a ring these three groups just couldn't get together at all. Is it right, then, to take this power from the Lawgiver and hide it to some government minister, whatever he may be in the fall of 2020? Is that appropriate? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's a complicated project. A senator came in. That's absolutely right. Like what? A senator is also aware of a wide variety of viewpoints in the committee's discussion, especially in the comments received. There were many views there, as I did in my speech this morning. It's part of the problem we're in, and then we're going to have a full reexamination of our maternity laws. It is now known that the next autumn bill of the legislation on maternity will be held at the highest level. A minister came in this morning that he was going to come forward, answer me. I see no reason to doubt that. The Senator asked what would happen if the minister was changed. That's why it is important to have the regulations in this room firmly so that if a minister is to be replaced, he will still have orders from the council. It is unusual for the council to give direction to counselors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u34	Mr. President. I must admit that there is a problem. The senator and the producer of this transition have come to remind us of the best explanation you've ever seen of, the minister of the show. [[Up front.]] I'm no closer to what's going on with this. I think that more of the parts of this situation have trouble with me. The government put in place an ambitious non-inferiority plan, it was in progress for the whole fall of the council, we agreed to it in agreement yesterday, and it included an arrangement of five plus five plus two. As you can see, going that way was no more of a share within the government. It was just some play, and it was obviously supposed to be some other way of implementing it. Then there is certainly improvement in the fact that it is not legalized four plus four plus four to remain unchanged unless, in some way, there is no way that this change can be interpreted to the greater part of the welfare committee, so that once it came into place, the day after which, no more part was done within the government for what we agreed on yesterday, to complete the length of the observation for 12 months by the exchange of five plus five plus two. There's a little special message to the highest. Prime Minister who recommended this procedure. I must be happy as the rest of us here are assuming that we're validating a 12-month maternity pass, but I think it's completely ridiculous, I have to admit it. I don't understand what the government is doing with this, how he can't live with what he agreed to do at the council yesterday. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u35	Mr. President. In answer to what? A candidate in himself had no particular question, though, is there any greater role in extending the womb? Of course, there's more to it, I don't know better than that all the senators who voted yesterday paid votes by so that at least It is the will of the council. The Senator also rolled up the exchange, and we had a place to say about it this morning. That's when they pointed out why. A senator, including a member of the U.S. that by having too many windows of the exchange of four, four, four, we might be putting ourselves in line to get back into the equal struggle. This is taken into account in the current change proposal, and I think it is. A senator should be glad that his speech at the council has had some effect, and together we can achieve an landing that we can all agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u36	Mr. President. I just agree with what. A senator says that a change in plans has been made. Actually, I don't have a list of where that adjustment proposal was made from the greater part of the welfare committee. So here's another adjustment proposal, but I still don't understand this problem. Yesterday, the Congress agreed in a very clear way how it wanted to divide a 12-month maternity clinic. That was very clear. There wasn't, for example, that it should be this way, that it was very clear in the Senate resolution that we agreed last night that the exchange should be five months between the parent and the two months apart. It couldn't be much clearer, but then there's a lot of welfare committees somehow stirring this case back and forth today. I don't understand the trouble. I can't interpret it any other way than that when it came down to it, it was not supported by the government or by any member of this government to go as the council, and then the same people accepted yesterday. It's some kind of a roundabout, Mr. President and what. Senator. It's better that something's been going on just now, but I still can't understand that we can't just stand by and establish the clear will that came from the council yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for the answer. He says he doesn't understand this alleged problem. I don't know how well you're doing. A senator has studied the reviews and phrases that have been held in the Assembly Hall and have been in all directions. I have the entire history of this case considered the aim of reaching as many members of the hall as possible to agree with a 12-month birthalorof. We did it yesterday. I believe that by this method we will achieve some of the best possible landings that are not completely at the council, i.e. and the exchange, nor the complete agreement with the managers who have given the council reviews. We know that we have a full reexamination of the birthal law, as we have so far. By doing this, we are making sure that the conclusion that the council finds out about four, four, two parts will be fundamental, no matter what else the review might bring. That's the best I heard this morning. That's what I heard. Senators would be calling for. I could not understand this discussion in any other way than that members of the council made a big effort to keep us from the amazing phenomenon of the Icelandic maternity law that it is almost mandatory for both parents to take four months each. It's not like this all over the world, and that's why we're making the changes that they are now, making sure these foundations exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u38	A respectable president. It has become an excellent document that follows the case and even slightly confused, but I think it's the most beautiful thing in the original document, the bill that came from a minister who would have attached to the law of a 12-month birthor and the exchange between parents. But if the machine could not be driven by the ability to complete the case in this way at the council, I consider it a fine landing, as is the core of the main contribution of the NTSB, that the prolongation from nine up to ten months next year is required, and that in this way, four months will be heard to each parent but the shared time is reduced because the smaller it is, the more the birthworm system is more likely to be the equal device that it should be the rights of a labour market. Now, more than a portion of the social services committee is proposed to my own adjustment proposal, I make only one small comment that the form had to be made as a change of motion. The comment is that, in line with what the senators have talked about today, we are not to be fixed up in the bill's preliminary rules what it is exactly as a minister should do, how to divide the months during a total review. The majority suggest a minimum of four months to each parent and to have at least two common ones, but what if something else comes out of the commission, what if the committee finds out that the labor movement's viewpoint is the right one? Their comments show that the shared time should disappear and that 12 months should be divided equally between parents, six and six. Then I think the council has tied the minister's hands too soon, so the adjustment I propose at this point is only about it. Despite the setback that took place in extending the ore to 12 months, it is now only taken for ten months, and then the next step took place next year with a new bill, of course, should be glad that the hysteria is extending and that we are taking this long - awaited step that we should have taken a long way further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u39	Mr. President. Here we are discussing a case that in itself is not complicated, although it has been complicated, as it has been, and will not be about to extend the discussion much. I have to say, though, that I don't like the adjustment that we've come up with because I feel, as it were. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son just before, that there's too much of a four, two, split. It is being sent a message to the minister to consider as soon as the majority claim to be granting full freedom to the committee. It seems quite obvious that there has been no work in the administration categories in this case. It is not just that they prevented professional employment on the committee; it seems that they had no job thinking what is best, whether in the Ministry or among the management parties. Talk about it being the best landing ever, like a dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson noted earlier, is, in effect, a grueling embarrassing expression, and is unable to handle such a business professionally at the council. It's not complicated, it's about the birthal law and how to divide it. If this case had come to a normal time into the council, it wouldn't be in the process of power that we're seeing here, since the government groups just can't agree with anything about what this is supposed to be. The government's not getting in the way, that's the government itself. The best landing in this case seems to be taking it out of the council and presenting it to some prime minister of the autumn. I hope, Mr. President, the government is trapped in a book and does not offer us such work at the coming spring council. This is absolutely ridiculous. It's the maternity law but it's not astrophysics. I wondered how the government handles other issues and how it is dealing with these days. I find it serious when the government shows the nation that they are completely committed and that they throw away the responsibility as they do in this case, that they can't complete it so that they'll just be put in a bill in the spring Senate, made out in the fall election, or put in a bill at the fall council, and finished for years without being placed in a state-of-the-book authority for Ministers to decide somehow. It is not good to show the nation how the government will appear during those final days of the council. I find it incredibly sad how the government has made its appearance in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u40	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a great case, prolongation of maternity. Awesome! I think we can all agree on that. I think that almost every class has had it on its policy list to extend the birthworm. Already we've raised the roof, and so hopefully it would make for men and women to take the birthplace of some equal. We're going to extend it to ten months next year and then to 12 months in the following year. I think this case is great, and I'm gonna take a valid apology every time. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór of having mixed up this matter a little bit. I felt as if we were discussing some game of soccer that I don't know how to play. Four, four, four; six, six; three, three, three -- this was very complicated, of course, but it's not complicated. It's just a great deal, and most of all, it's about rights and families, but it's also a huge equal case. It's had a lot to do with the equal status of the sexes in a professional market, saying that when we set foot on an obstetrical at the time, with the rules we took a huge step in this hall. I was not involved, unfortunately, but there were indeed some inside. It's a good thing to remember in this context that this morning we got the news that the 11th consecutive year Iceland was in 1st gender equality. These are World Economic Forum figures. There's nothing adorable about this equality, it's just total economics and huge human rights. In fact, we have come to view equality as a export product. This is part of our development aid, and we have a very good story. Of course, we are to keep on telling this good story, how we best support families and children in our country, and how people can be in very different situations when it comes to taking a baby's breath. I just want to see the results from this group and see what he's suggesting. That's why I say, can't we finish this discussion by being excited that we're extending our birth certificate? That's what everybody wants, and now we're gonna take time to find the best way to get these months between parents. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I agree that it's an excellent language as equal, but it's also very clear, and it's been already in place for at least For seven years it has been considered important that parents'right to birthworm, especially when it becomes 12 months, is equal, in fact, that it is remembered as a switch between them because otherwise we may become in the same position as we are today, women taking six months and men three. If we go for 12 months, women are more likely to take eight months and four men. In that case, it has even become women in labour markets. Apparently, the Independence Party had some doubts about the reimbursement that the birthworm will be five months between the parent and two, and that it does not agree with itself anymore, the independent party that was on a green button yesterday in the U.S. Equal Opportunities Action Programme, which made it clear that this would be five months between parent and two would be the parent. What caused this change in independence during the less than 24 hours since the Council agreed to the exchange of five plus five plus two? I'd like to hear from what you're talking about. A senator why we have been standing in this circle today because the Independence Party changed its mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u42	A respectable president. I'm glad we're back. A senator and I think the whole body of Congress agrees on how great it is. The big thing is, we're extending our maternity. I have to admit, I don't know why we're in this circle nonsense, and I think it's a bit of a home-made problem with us. It's not that the Independence Party changed its mind in a day, but I'll be honest with you -- actually, I'm not in trouble. a well - being committee that has discussed this matter - that I have not developed a clear view of who is the best way. I admit it. I think it is very important that we lent our birthworm, as well as that we will remain in first place when it comes to equality. Whether it's best to have five, five, two, six, or four, four, I'm not sure. Different reports have been involved in this and other issues from the labor movement. There's no reason why we don't go any further next year, I'm afraid. I prefer to feel sorry for the children who will be born on December 31, which is another story. Always have to be understood somewhere when it comes to this kind of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u43	It's great being...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u44	Yes, actually, the highest. Prime Minister, I was born on December 29, and these are very good days. [[Up front.]] I don't see any reason why we're in some sort of round-the-winding mess here. Let's get all these reviews, hear what the group is saying, and then find out what is the best way. This room also asks about single - parent status. A parent's situation may vary that much, and of course we need to listen to it. Let's take some time to do it, and celebrate this wonderful matter, so let's agree to the first, and let's go to the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u45	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion. It would have been wishful that a welfare committee had simply brought the matter in and discussed it. I think that nine out of ten comments to the Committee on the matter were supported by five plus five plus two splits. The labour market members have clearly supported the five plus five plus two splits, which surprises me, in view of the fact that we personally supported the five plus five plus two splits, that we're in some kind of trouble finishing this case. I'm just so embarrassed to see that the council can't support its own interpretation within 24 hours after it approved it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u46	A respectable president. It's not embarrassing at all. Let's just finish this thing. We agree that this is great. We're extending the birthworm. Children born here next year will have ten months with their parents. That's great. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Children born after January 1, 2021, will receive 12 months with their parents. [[Up front.]] That's great. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] On the basis of the precise distribution, let us just take time to figure it out and consider what is the best solution to that subject. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u47	President. We'll talk about something amazing. I can readily agree with those words. paritaprevir Bryndís the spirit of Haraldsdóttir said before, that this matter was mad. It was awesome when it was in trouble. The welfare committee. However, I criticize what started after we took care of the committee because the dance began. I'd like to say this is almost at best, poor reding of the more part. This has become the theater of the absurd. It's clear that everyone here wants a maternity code for 12 months. I, along with others of my council, have talked about it saying 0, 12. I hope so. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir understands. I have to criticize the evil practices that the greater part shows here in just a few hours. We're in the Central Party for a 12-month birthday or two. What has also been forgotten in this discussion is the child's interests and rights. This is not just a matter of dividing something into four, four, two; four, four, four; five, five, two, etc. We're supposed to get together, agree to 12 months, and make sure this case comes back into the chamber when it's ready so that the rest will be given proper and therapeutic treatment. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u48	Mr. President. I'm not going to have many words about this matter, on the other hand, because it's actually too many, and it's just because I get really confused about the more you talk about it. During the past two days, a hall has moved one case after another through a vote under the harsh and legitimate remarks of the memory of the section that it is not working well enough, not well thought enough, and has not given sufficient consideration to comments, but it has not been allowed to listen because all of these matters are part of the agreements since spring. I'm not going to lay down so low to use the same language as the highest. Prior to today, a social minister padded about the opposition to government. One case after another, these unions go through, huge cases, controversial affairs, matters that concern the Slocation Fund, which the largest community does not merely cross, and they will not be able to attend a meeting to follow up a rumor to name something. But where are the beaches? Where does the social harmony of the governments fail? In the observatory case, which is like all the other cases of the collective agreement from spring to spring, but with full support for most of the government opposition, unlike the rest of the cases that were run through here. I'm not going to speak for all the government groups, but I don't think they all have their birthmarks. There, however, the government forces are putting their foot down. No, stop, we're stopping, now we're not going to go through any more. It's getting good. In the obstetric language, the agreement is broken. Hv. Haraldsdóttir But I still call for more information just so I can understand it. Yesterday, with all agreed votes, it is clear that when the birthworm is in one year, at the beginning of 2021, the rate of 12 months for all to agree on the switch should be five months between parent and two splits. What happens to members of Congress who vote for this, and are not now sure that this is the best? Why were those comments not made yesterday? Why didn't we discuss this yesterday and then take it further? To say this, I take my heart to those who rejoice because they are talking about the prolongation of the birth serpent. However, it does not matter how good things are done. It is a search for as incompetent cases as we have seen here on this matter. I'm sorry, it sucks to be doing this with a bad taste in your mouth as much as we're stuck with. This is a modification proposal to change a bill that I think is more part of at the council, but it's a different story because it's not gonna be there. The second adjustment is better than the first, it's quite true, and it could be concluded here by people sitting on the yellow button to declare once more disappointment and disapproval of these tactics and then supporting the case because it's basically a good thing. This work, however, is a pain. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u49	A respectable president. I'm going to bring in a quick slip and start by saying that it's a great joy to know that we're finishing the law of about 12 months of gestation. Clearly, a discussion of a precise exchange is not over, but what really matters is that the change to be made during the New Year's Eve has been determined. We have time to finish the other thing, and we must not lose sight of what is the main point of the 12-month birthor of the closely linked biographies. In this context, I would suggest that at the end of the New Year, the share of insurance will be significantly changed from 0.65% to 1.1% of the insurance fee. That's a big change. This bill's financing will cost about 5 billion a year. It is not a question of raising the insurance fee to finance that factor. No, we'll cut down the annual insurance fees by 4 billion. That means that the government's real supply to the Life Treaty Treaty, including Because of what we have under here, it can be worth at least 9 billion. It is 9 billion that the government puts the biographies into agreements with the reduction of insurance costs and the increase of rights in maternity vacations. This is an enormous issue of rights for which we must rejoice. The issue will not be overlooked, and as a minister of finance, I felt obliged to point out how huge a contribution is made to a reduction of insurance costs along with a large increase of rights in maternity vacations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u50	Mr. President. It may be good to take this discussion short, but I would like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party why the Party opposes the approval of the General Assembly yesterday, that the parent will receive five months and two months. The transition is not only in accordance with the synonym that we agreed on yesterday but also in accordance with a report prepared by the Ministry of Health and the labour market members, which was responsible for and submitted their decision just over three years ago. I don't expect the labour market party to change their mind on this case but the highest. A secretary of finance may be able to tell me about it. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that a donation was being made to birthworm, which comes from an insurance fee, and I ask to keep the story in mind: Is it not just being moved back to normal? Based on the reductions in maternity clinics, the share of the insurance fees to the birth stocks was greatly cut down so that I am no better than just moving it to my former outlook. You see, the birth stock system was self-sustained before a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u51	A respectable president. I don't recognize any opposition. A senator is holding the Independence Party on the case. As far as I can tell, the matter comes back to the council and there will be an attitude toward the division. What I'm pointing out about the insurance bill is that it reduces at the same time as the rights for which the fee is due to increase. Hv. A senator asks: " Isn't it merely the birthworm part being restored to its former state? ' That inspection will not be taken without looking to the total price. The total price goes down by 4 billion next year, although we increase the share of the birthworm section, which means that the share of the insurance that is due to the pension insurance is down, and it happens at the same time, followed by increased rights in the pension policy system. This large context of the objects is rarely planned at the General Assembly. It is unnatural that governments are in a conversation with the workforce on changes in unemployment and maternity rights without the full funding of these portions of their rights. In order to make up for it, the birth stock has to go to 1.1%, 17% of the insurance fee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u52	Mr. President. I don't think we have to fight about this for a long time, chief. Secretary of finance. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs gave a bill for prolongation of birthworm, which included the exchange of five months for each parent and two months. It's the transition that's been discussed in this matter as far back as I can remember. Obviously, the independence party's claim was to go rounding to turn it into some form of opposition to a synonym that we agreed on yesterday on a political action plan. I'm always a little scared when financial ministers start talking about how insurance costs no longer finance what they ought to finance. There's not a chance that there'll be an increase in insurance. If so, it is proper to keep the value of insurance, despite the decline at this time of the year, even considerably higher than it was before a crash. Before a collapse, a part of the stock market in insurance fees was about 1.3%, if I remember correctly, but it was halved. V.E.G. I must be forgiven by the secretary of finance, even though I do not remember what government halved it, which was due to the reduced rights of a breeding stock in the years following a collapse. I believe that it was about 1.3% before a crash, and then it was fully under the expenses of an observatory, and I think if we were to calculate it it would probably be under this length, since the maximum pay has been cut down so much. I hope to the highest. The secretary of finance will review all of this history before he starts publishing up the amount of insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u53	President. Look, I'm not offering any ups on the insurance bill. We're down payment on the insurance one more time. Hv. A senator said that the price was comparable to that of a crash. Then let me just bring it into the discussion that the rights are all different and better, including Regarding unemployment rights, maternity, and pension. In fact, in fact, there are the pensioners who, according to the Tequita, have enjoyed the greatest financial gains in recent years. The same is true of micro-employers. All these reform groups are in a very different place than before a crash, so it is only natural that the insurance bill is not in exactly the same place. Hv. However, a senator at one time spoke about the job market taking over these rights parties, and then let us ask ourselves, " What if I had walked by it? ' Then you would have been negotiating with yourself to raise your birthworm to 12 months, inside the labour market, and the entire cost, 5 billion in this case, would have ended in the case of employers. But what's going on with this government? The cost of working drivers is down by 4 billion per year, while the other ide would have raised the cost of about 5 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u54	He's the pros.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u55	Mr. President. The largest progressive development in the case of sex equality in Iceland has been the development of a school for all of us and the structure of birthworm that both mothers and fathers use. This is why Iceland is once again listed at the top of the World Health Organization for Equal Opportunities. I have three children of my own. I wouldn't be in the position I'm in today if it wasn't for maternity or nursery school. Therefore, it is a day of great joy to me that we are extending the womb from nine months to 12. I would have liked to have it that way when I had my three children, but I am happy with the parents who will receive these added rights because it matters for women, for men, and for the children of that country. It's an enormous step for all the children in Iceland, and for that, I'm happy to be here today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u56	President. With members of the Central Party, there will be some adjustments in the proposals presented in this case. We will certainly support our 12 - month birth stock, the interests of children and families at stake. What's been happening to us today is the theater of the absurdity, and I really hope this room doesn't have to be routine. I agree that it is happy, though, that we are extending our maternity to 12 months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u57	President. I rejoice, of course, that I should have a 12-month birthmark. That's great. I still hate how this case has been handled. I hate having to stand here and criticize this instead of celebrating. That sucks. I have to say, these changes are going to be yellow for me and Piratar, although I realize that also means that we're going to be yellow by raising up to 12 months. I'm afraid that's where it is. I believe we're going to have 12 months of maternity school but I can't support this adjustment proposal, including I don't think it should be under the Minister's right to know how a maternity vacation is divided. There seems to be a change in the production of more parts. It must be based on some grammatical viewpoints that will be followed by a democratic discussion at the Senate Hall. We're not supposed to hand over rights protection to the secretary's rights. That's what worries me more than anything about changing the development of more part, and that's why I'm going to be yellow. [[The president calls.]] I think it's incompetent and unhealthy, and I think it shows how inconsistency and incoherent this government is, even within its own ranks, that she's screwed up this great affair. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u58	Mr. President. Yes, how happy we are that the statue of the birth serpent, set by the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, is being reassigned at the elected date of 2009/2013, which was exactly approved by the General Assembly of 12 months of maternity. We must not forget that. Now the shorter the 2013 government did. We welcome it, of course. However, the way the government handled this is incredibly sad, how the highest. Minister of Social Affairs screwed up the case and how the more part has thrown in four, five changes. I think it's by far the best thing that we do is just agree to the bill just the way it is. It's 12 months, it's five, five, two - and it's off. These forms are only under way from a conflict within the governments. I'm sure it's more of a part of the room to have the five, five, two like we agreed on yesterday. [[The president calls.]] There was more to it, so I think we're just supposed to sit by and support the bill because the bill goes out on a 12-month-old birth course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u59	A respectable president. Like everyone else, I'm glad we're voting on the birthworm extension from nine months to 12 months. There is an enormous interest in children and children's families in Iceland. Let us not forget, though, that the present government has also raised its payments for delivery. It's nice to say that after this ideal period, the total pay of Iceland's children's families through the birth Ororal system will have increased from 10 billion to 20 billion per year. It's funding that runs directly to Iceland's children's family. I'm incredibly happy that we're voting on these changes here today and I'm also looking forward to introducing in October. work on the complete reexamination of the law which included will then take a position on the issues involved in that work. The next year, our birthworm system is now 20 years old and we need to reevaluate it because we want to have a powerful and progressive birth - transplant system in Iceland because it's very important. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u60	Mr. President. Like others, I am so delighted that we look forward to the prolongation of the birthworm. Less than 20 years ago, this was the goal. It has been slowly fogged, but the port is coming, and it is a cause for rejoicing. However, it is worse for the government's day of judgment. We see three or four adjustments in the administrative sector - and what do these adjustments indicate to us? They may even tell us. that there is absolutely distrust on top of it. Minister of Social Affairs will bring the matter in time because we had our last experience that he brings it up late and bad. There is distrust within the governments of him, or it is simply distrust toward the Independence Party, that he is able to stand by the fact that this will not be just 12 months on maternity leave, but that it will remain the equal device that has divided us to the Icelanders, whether it is that the prime minister has come to work or that we have been on the front row for nearly 11 years in the list of countries where we have the most equal rights. [[The president calls.]] We can't get crazy about it, and I encourage the whole world to keep it safe from being lost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u61	Mr. President. We're going to vote on prolongation of maternity vacations. It is with great pride that I will vote for this matter. I don't think we can make a better decision on equality, on the affairs of children and on the affairs of the whole community in a single way than on this matter. We will continue to ensure that Iceland is progressive on equality. We're going to continue to make sure that Iceland is in the best order when it comes to children's affairs. I urge members of Congress not to vote with the changes in the motions to vote with the case and then change, thus showing their true mind in action to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u62	Honorable generals. Then it is finally our last meeting at the General Assembly for Christmas break, i.e. Last meeting in 2019 C.E. It is a pleasure that at this fall council, we have basically been able to stay within the Council's Work Programme. There are only two meeting days. This has been a public assembly, and a large number of cases have been proposed and discussed. The total number of national administrations is 64, and the proposals for the administration are 19. At that time, a large number of members of Congress have been proposed, both the bills and the Senate laws. Ninety-three are the bills, and the 99 suggestions. In addition, nine cases have been proposed. Of this number, 30 of the executives have become law, and 15 laws have been adopted. Then the law became two senators' bills and nine committee launchers. There were five proposals approved by members of Congress. This is the largest number of cases handled by the 120th legislature Council, i.e. in 1995. It is a special source of joy and is exemplary in the timely handling of budgets by the General Assembly and in full harmony with the work programme. The same is true of most legal cases. On November 27, we agreed on a budget. was, in effect, a pivotal event, since the budget of the coming year has not been approved before. During the past few decades, the General Assembly has adopted budgets by or by mid - December. All the most important matters tied to a New Year's contract have been granted, and the same is true of matters related to promises made in terms of collective labour agreements, so - called biographs. This success is attributed to the agreement between members of Congress by the end of the last week. So I would like to use this opportunity, thanking the members of the council especially for their good share in the final payment. The conferences on the end of Christmas season were in their hands, of course, in agreement with the president, the presidents of the Party and Ministers after the incident, but the results gave the members of the House themselves. At the end of the council, the direct membership of a minister or other noncommunicators has rarely been as small as I believe the General of the Council was well off solving these matters themselves. Some others at that autumn council were not as successful as I was to mention that it was a measure of disappointment that many government bills appeared late and all later than a Senate book expected. This was true in spite of much good discussions between the Council of the Council and the recent responsibilities and work that the president is well aware of, especially on the part of the prime minister, has taken care of. Thus, the government's position in these matters rests with expectations. This situation shows that there are late stewards and advisers to learn how important it is for careful work and for the progress of events in the Council that will pass on in time, so that there is not much better atmosphere around all work to do in such cases. Here at the General Assembly, it is correct to complain that the members of Congress are being answered. The importance of the court's application in cases that cannot be answered within the specified time limit is always extended. On the other hand, if a longer delay is required, this does not justify excessive handling of an answer; yet, it cannot be overlooked that the Council itself also needs to consider its share when it comes to e.g. queries to the minister. It is very important that queries are clear, well-defined what information is being asked for and that the form of query is not being used to ask about things that are already in public or that are otherwise difficult to obtain, e.g. Throughout the General Information Services itself. In part, you can have similar comments on reporting requests and queries. It is worth considering that they are not treated with any comparable treatment, either for discussion or for observation, and usually with all other decisions before they are agreed or denied. It would be helpful to review these matters within the council, on the company of the prime committee, and with members of the Parliament, as well as in the work that hopefully makes a move and a compromise of the Convention. What I have mentioned here on the requests and reports asked to the minister is in no way directly against the unconvinced rights of members of Congress to use these important maintenance and monitoring tools. The state of Congress is undisputed, protected by Constitution and Congress and will not be taken away. My meditation is presented in the belief that this is the best way to handle the tools when they need them. Much more could be done at the end of the Fall Summit, but the president is content to mention a series of measures that will take place in order for the International Parliament to be established. I would like to mention such factors as increased assistance to members of Parliaments and members of Congress, and then the next stage for the New Year's Eve, the expansion of the Committee and the Office of the General Assembly. Most important, I give you the new building of the council. It has now been arranged for the first shipments of two to-dos. The construction project begins within a few weeks. At the end of this last meeting of 2019, I give thanks to members of the Parliament, to the council groups, and to the Ministers and, above all, to the staff of the General for the fine work. I wish all happy and peaceful Christmas and New Year. Anyone who has a long journey home, I wish to return home and pray that we may all meet together in a whole new year. I will send my best Christmas and New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u63	Mr. President. I would like to thank the Presidents of the Generals for our cooperation this winter and especially for our cooperation with members of the council. Then I would especially like to thank the staff of the Generals for their good work and gladly provide assistance. This group of people working to make the council work, and from day to day the work is extremely helpful and kind to us generals, and we thank them. Christmas is for many hours of light and peace, the time to meet with relatives and friends, the time to load and warm in the new year. I hope that most people in the country can have a Merry Christmas, but we know that it is neither sure nor certain. In January, we all gather again, where we will continue to communicate and to do our best for the people of the country, for although we understand much, this certainly is the common goal of all of us. Let's go home and celebrate Christmas. Peace to the world's wishes. Soon the sun will rise again, Then I'll see you in that chair. I thank the President and the staff, and wish them and the members of the council a merry Christmas and a new New Year. I beg the senators to answer my words and stand up. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u64	Thank you. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. "Granni Bragi Sveinsson, for good words. Thank you. Allathermen for saying his words, and also by repeating my thanks and wishes. All members of the Parliament and staff of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-17-48.u65	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to delay the discovery of the Council of Alla, Council 150, from December 16, 2019, or later, if necessary, to January 20, 2020. Return to Reykjavík, December 13th, 2019. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that General Assembly meeting of 150th is postponed. Thank you. All council members and members of the Parliament for a good partnership with what is of the past and who wish them as well as the people of the country to be merry Christmas and peace and success in the coming year.
