ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u1	V.E.G. President. I hereby propose a synopsis of non-communicative anticancer therapy. With me, the suggestion goes. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, Birggir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Sæmundsson Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Jónsson and Somundsson. The proposal was previously submitted to a 149th legislature of 807 C.E. The cost of cancer treatment is heavy for many, and it is the cost of a number of cancer patients at the cost of medicine and all health care in this country, rising each year. The cost often turns out to be the greatest in the early stages of illness, when the individual is not now under government subsidies, but it may take months, depending on what he or she has earned in rights. During this time, patients will have no subsidies, either on treatment or on equipment they may need. As a consequence of the anticancer treatment, often individuals have to be warned about some of the side effects, e.g. the purchase of wigs and/or the type of permanent eyebrows due to hair loss, as well as the costs of interviews that often come away from home. Also, the cost of buying at various means and the cost of physical therapy may be high. By making the treatment voluntary, patients will be able to buy the necessary extra items and to pay the cost of travel, not to mention the help necessary to the family. Thus, the combined cost can become quite high, so much so that for the sake of financial gain, people decide not to buy the services considered necessary. At the calculated cost, the patient's income and often their frequent family losses are added. More than one in three cases is diagnosed with cancer at some point in life, and each year an average of 1450 new cases are identified. As early as the turn of the century, the number of cases increased each year regardless of the population's average age and population growth. However, in the past decade, the incidence has decreased and is one of the main causes of reduction in smokers, which is directly related to lower incidences of lung cancer and other cancers. With better diagnostic techniques and more effective treatment measures, life expectancy has been substantially increased. By the end of 2015, more than 13,000 Icelanders were alive who have been diagnosed with cancer. About 66% of men and 70% of women who develop cancer live for five years or longer after diagnosis of the disease, depending on cancer types. Four decades ago, only 27% and 44% were comparable in males and females. Prostatic carcinoma is the most common cancer in men and breast cancer in women. About 200 men and about 200 women are diagnosed with these diseases each year. For defined solid tumours, surgical intervention is the most common treatment. The treatment is often combined with surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and/or hormone therapy. Blood cancer is usually treated with medicines. Relative new treatments are selective medicinal products that focus on specific functions of the cell and thereby reduce the growth and spread of the disease. Finally, I'd like to say: The movers believe that there will be an urgent attack on cancer treatments in Iceland to enable all to receive appropriate treatment for their disease regardless of their economic situation. In this country, when used in cancer treatments, the best alternative measures are available and, therefore, the change would not result in patients choosing more expensive therapies. After this discussion, I suggest that the proposal be made to the World Health Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u2	Mr. President. I thank you for your transfer, my ass. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle's Daughter, very much for history. This is interesting and good. It is always good when we are in a position to render needed service, and we certainly want people to be able to afford the resources available to us. The fact is, though, that we are dealing with limited resources when it comes to financing the health system, and it is a ongoing challenge. At first, I'd like to roll up and pray. A senator will answer why this applies specifically to cancer treatments. We have public payment in all possible types of disease, and the scale is wide. Cancers vary in aggressiveity and life expectancy, and treatments vary frequently, as are other types of disease. What causes the cancer to be taken out of parentheses? According to this suggestion, a higher position should be obtained, as it were, in the health system at the time of public payment. The proposal does not reveal any difference between cancer therapy and other treatments. I know what you're doing. A senator in our neighboring countries is thus taken out of the way for cancer treatment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u3	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. We certainly do not have funds to do everything we want to do. But to answer that first, I think that the expense department of patients in itself is not great. We may mention, for example, that return costs are not high, but I do know that people do not show up in walking departments because they are reluctant to pay that cost. I can say with what. A senator that we have other chronic life - threatening diseases, and we need to take a closer look at how we deal with them. I speak as an example of multiple sclerosis. This may be of great benefit if we do not have to pay our dues. But in contrast with what is elsewhere in the North and Britain, which is written in a report, there is no distinction between that disease, that is correct. I hope we get there, people don't have to pay a cent for all the life - threatening diseases. Enough is enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I hope I understand correctly that this is the first step in making health care free for the public. I just want to continue my discussion by focusing on the cost of medicine. Hv. A senator noted that although we generally provided the best possible treatment for cancer in the country, we would not be at risk of further medical treatments or even overtherapeutic procedures, even when free. The fact is, however, that the development of anticancer medicinal products is extremely high, and it has become available for products that are designed for the genetic composition of individuals, so they are enormously expensive and very effective. I'm sorry. A senator could make it possible that if this became possible and all cancer treatments were to be free, the funding would be better paid than the use of these expensive drugs? True, this is not a very large amount of money on an individual, but it gathers when it comes together. Like what? A senator comes on to be a disease that many people get, but we don't necessarily get the medicine for the country, at least. not as fast and definitely as in years before. This is the hard reality that we enjoy. We can, in the opinion of the senator, start using the funds to pay off all chemotherapy treatments for everyone, including the patient's condition. those who can do something? Then there would be less money left in the expensive medicine that can literally divide individuals into everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u5	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again. It is absolutely true that we are using costly drugs. I'm going to allow myself to be used as an example. When I got sick in 2011, I did not have the drug I am on today. I have the advantage of being enrolled in a walking ward when I receive the medicine. In doing so, I do not pay for it, even if it is expensive. There is an increasing selection of medicines available to people. It was a dam for a time which turned to the invitations, which I know to what. A senator knows well. What I've come across is that out there are patients who are prescribed medicines from the pharmacist but who need to find a medical facility to take these medicines. There are men in it. I don't know a lot of stories about the other person going into a walking ward. This is reversed, but it is quite clear that a majority of patients are enrolled in medication. By doing so, patients carry only the small cost of return, but they are beyond the reach of many, denying themselves other factors that inevitably result from a diagnosis of cancer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u6	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution on non-unionable anticancer therapy. I'm one of the traders to the proposal, and it sounds as if the General of the Council was trying to assign a health minister to the impression that cancer treatments will be free of charge, i.e. that a minister is working to reduce the cost of cancer therapy. It may be the most difficult thing in each person's life when he is diagnosed with a serious illness, such as cancer most often does, and this does not add to the concerns associated with such analysis and struggles that the individual also has to contend with or experience economic anxiety following such a diagnosis and treatment. We cannot, in my opinion, be counted primarily among the welfare society until we announce that people diagnosed with serious diseases, such as cancer, are truly - we are still hearing stories, all too often, of people who experience in the wake of analysis and treatment of poverty, that is the experience following serious diseases. We cannot be called a welfare society in that sense while looking at such things. It has to be a community parachute to deal with this and that people do not, at all, have to be reluctant to choose any treatments or resources available when such diseases are diagnosed because they do not have the funds to accept or buy services, drugs, treatments, interviews, or whatever it is called. I hold my mind to the proposal and reiterate what I said is that a minister of these treatments will be free of charge, which basically means that a minister can take some step in that direction. I think it's very important that it's done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u7	Mr. President. Happily, now that society is slowly rising from the ashes, society is in a better position to meet those who are hard and heavy, as the Holy Scriptures say. I think it is difficult in itself for anyone to decide that he has cancer, that the decision itself is difficult enough and difficult for every person and family in his own life, let alone having to worry about financial matters that come from treatments that people need to have. So this proposal has come out, which I'm very proud to be with an importer. I decided earlier that one nice senator asked: "Why this disease? Happily, there is a rapid development of medicines that are useful to various types of cancer, but with the fact that new drugs, when they first appear, are enormously expensive. Therefore, if you are suffering from this disease, you need to think about taking treatments that require more veterinary medicinal product than you may have been given in the past, this proposal is submitted. In addition to the one discussed here, middle class members have already spoken of the fact that the health system in Iceland is always using the most recent and best medicine to treat life - threatening diseases, including MS and MND. As a society, we have a natural obligation to deal with those who are dealing with distressing conditions because of the devastating effects of life - threatening diseases. So I have reason to believe that the council feels that it has to be done well through the council, and I don't believe it, because this is a matter that would have taken place long ago. As I pointed out earlier, the economic situation of the land has been in the process up to the past few years that after the collapse here, people may have started slowly. But now that we are again in good condition, we are under obligation to deal with those who suffer from life - threatening diseases. An overview of how these matters are handled in neighboring countries is well illustrated in the following article. I believe it is necessary for us to try to follow the nations in the first place in these matters, i.e. on matters that affect the health of those who suffer from the most difficult diseases. I'm going to repeat that I hope that the proposal gets a clear route through the council, that it will be taken for a good and careful treatment of a committee, and then come back into the room so that we can accept it for the very first, because it is absolutely necessary to do so. Some groups in society find it harder to wait than others, and the group with cancer is one of the groups that find it difficult to wait for decisions that could improve quality of life, standard of living, and lifestyle. I say again, we have an obligation to meet this group, Mr. President, let's settle this matter quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u8	Mr. President. In the absence of the Logi Einarsson, boy. paritaprevir The union, but he's the first carrier of this proposal, I recommend it. Not much will happen to her on paper, but she's like: The General concluded to assign the Minister of Education and Culture to cancel the responsibilities of student loans that were granted prior to July 31, 2009. The report shows that the synopsis proposal was submitted to the 149th legislature and was then a case of No. 811 but not supplied and is now removed. Until 2009, a student contemplating student's student's loan from the Icelandic student's loan had to get someone else, e.g. A parent, a relative, or a spouse to vouch for the loan. With law No. 78/2009, about the change in the law of Icelandic students No. 21/1992 was lost from requiring borrowers for the responsibilities of their loans except in cases where a student felt that he was not borrowing. Despite this, it was decided not to remove responsibilities from loans provided for the adjustment of the law. The basis for this inconsistencies was financial, since it was thought that the decommissionment of the responsible system could result in a loss of the debt ratio. Many cases of responsibility for older loans have caused a wide variety of problems, even decades after signing and bonding between borrowers and responsibilities had even changed dramatically. In addition, recent decisions have been made that make sense to the present system of things. They have, for example. has shown that responsible student loans do not have equal resources for responsible men of another kind in the financial system. A bill to the above changes layer showed that the requirement for responsible men is hardly consistent with the purpose of the loan to ensure equality for study, since not all students could provide a responsible one. Still, it was decided that the self - responsibilities of responsible men would remain active on out - of - line student loans. The present situation is incompetent discrimination and not consistent with the social equality of the fund. Therefore, it is a matter of justice that prior loans will be canceled. Artists why. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson on this proposal is why. Councilmen Elíasdóttir Fräður Elisdurdóttir, Ólafur Ágústsson, Bjöl Leví S., Brjánsson, Guðmundur Steindór Valdimarsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaódótland, Sæland Góland, Jón Pedor Valmisson and Njörður Sigurðsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u9	A respectable president. We're dealing with a proposal for a resolution on the breakdown of responsibilities for older student loans. I am one of the supporters of the proposal, and I must agree that this is one of the Congress resolutions that I feel it is necessary to enter the council. When we think back in time, the old arrangement of responsible men is basically incomprehensible. There is a mortgage on grandparents, spouses, uncles, aunts for the loans that can be said to be in many ways just loans that are a little lucky for what ends because there is no match between student loans, student loans, long studies, and the pay it brings. Besides the fact that if there is a tragedy and a student cannot repay, it is of course impossible to place the financial status of a relative or even a friend under it. That's why I say it's so great that this case has come true, and I really hope that it will go all the way and that we can put it behind us so that we never see the arrangements of borrowers that anyone should be responsible for this sort of thing and least student loans, because we're investing in future education. We also need to change our student loan system. That can be a very burdensome system in many respects, for the salary of the student cannot be determined. We know this too, and we have seen many times that most women are paid less often. They have long studies, but they are still entitled to a minimum wage. It tells itself that these things are burdensome and must be especially burdensome to those who know that behind their responsibilities there are grandparents, mates, and financial benefits to these people. That must be very burdensome and should not be happening. So I'm rooting for the whole thing, hoping it'll fly through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u10	Madam President. I'm on this case, of course. It's a long time. We have in Iceland had a strange system for credit and debt. Happily, this responsible system is largely terminated, at least for new loans. But this is naturally especially bad with a student's loan, since people often took them young in years, and those who signed were perhaps friends or even a part - time father - in - law or someone who associated with them at that point in life. But then the natural life continues and the debts of the LIN, anyway, what I owe him, are very mysterious because the amount of money doesn't reduce anything, no matter what I pay. There's always something there that's pretty much the same amount every year, no matter what I do. It's very unfair that someone but the borrower will get hit. Of course, it would be best to establish a system where we would have a scholarship. At least I've advised my children not to borrow from the LAIN. I think it's a long time for us to get into this and get people out of debt that they often have because of people who are totally irrelevant to them. I've heard a number of examples, confirmed examples, of a friend who was written up, so the friend is just taking someone to America, and no one even knows where he is or whether he's alive or dead, but the debt remains on someone who hasn't been in touch with him for decades. This needs fixing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u11	President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in drug and drug law that includes the prevention of drug and drug abuse when the amount of the substance is so high that it can be considered for its own use. This bill has a long cover story that I will review afterward, but first I'd like to describe how this particular case came about and why now. Last session went to the highest level. Healthcare Minister to the consumer space bill. The goal of the bill was to allow an institution and a business consumers. Necessity is a legal environment in which individuals aged 18 years and older can consume intravenous substances under the supervision of health care professionals and where hygiene is maintained. The matter was discussed by a welfare committee, but after a substantial discussion by the Committee, reviews, and visitors, the Commission decided to resolve the agreements of the Committee with a ruling proposal and was finally referred back to the government. I'd like to read the closing words of the committee that all members of the welfare committee used, with the permission of a president: THE bill's report points out that consumption is primarily a means of resources for those who are far led to addiction, with little hope of quitting their consumption. Adherence to the disease is taking steps to recognize that these individuals are primarily suffering from disease. The Commission feels that there is good reason to determine whether there is a greater reason for legislation to go on meeting these individuals so that they will not be punished because of that disease. Therefore, direct the committee to the health minister to work systematically to eliminate punishment for possession of doses of drugs. This opinion is based on the important approach that we need to approach individuals with addictions with empathy and the risk reduction guided by it. This approach has been gradually cleared up in this country, but its first steps could be marked in 2014 by the General Assembly's appendage of Pirat, the Bjart's Future, the Agency, the Convergence, and the Independence Party for molding policies to reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of drug abuse to help and protect its consumers and social rights, their partners and the rest of the community. This view of Congress is based on the simple but clear vision that the dominant drug - substance criminal criminal scrimmage has failed and that we must face it. For example, during the past decade there has been a revolution in those areas around the world. Leaders have increasingly faced the sad fact that the war against drugs was actually a war against people. Most of the enemies in that war were just ordinary people who made it all wrong to use drugs, whether they had an addiction problem or not. For each victory we won, we created only more consumers and strengthened the underworld. He will not cease to use. No, he will seek all ways to find a new portion, whatever they may be. Remember, it is not that long ago the police confiscated a syringe when an individual became informed that using intravenous substance and what else is involved but making the consequences of intravenous substance use even worse, e.g. by sharing needles? Even if people do not have an addiction, they do not have the right solution. People who use drugs should not be afraid to go to the police; we should all not be afraid to go to the police if we need police help, regardless of whether they have taken drugs or not. In recent years the police have changed their ways without any specific legal adjustment, so it has become customary for individuals with less amounts of drugs to be arrested and the government prosecutor's rules have been changed so that minor drug abuses are not criminalized. The fact remains that even in very small amounts, protection and treatment are punishable. It has to be changed. Since there is no good reason to punish consumers for drugs, I believe it to be the logical and reasonable conclusion that this case will receive good and prompt treatment during the council and be approved. Then I would also like to sum up the discussion at both the conference hall and the health committee, the last Council on Health Minister's topic on consumption and how this case relates to it. There was some criticism of the matter of consumption, mainly from police and State prosecutors. Their reviews said that there was no valid authority for the police to negotiate criminal areas, and the police could not pass such agreements without clear legal authority. In fact, it would not be up to the police to stop enforcing laws in a limited area. Rather, they would have to do their job whether the law on consumption went into effect or not. Possible solutions to that problem were considered, but the simple and logical answer is, of course, the possession of consumers doses, receipts, and treatments without punishment. Since such a bill has not been observed since the highest level. A health minister is only natural that a bill on the subject will be established by the legislatures of the legislature authorities, me and the senators. This is an end to support, since five groups of eight have declared their support by means of the transfer, and I appreciate the support I received from the movers. Thus, with the approval of the bill, two views can be assured. First, giving consumers drugs appropriate and necessary protection from punishment and helps us as a community to provide the help that everyone needs. Second, to give firm support to a bill on consumption level that is expected to be submitted again, and it is likely that this legislation will be taken care of, for a very short matter. Now that we have the opportunity to take the steps to complete criminal consumption, I suggest we do not let it go to the courts. In terms of the subject of the bill, it makes relatively simple changes in drug and drug laws. 1.mg. 2.g. changes in not all warnings and treatments for longer will be punished but only the one mentioned in 4 mg. From 4 mg. is then far from the behavior most likely to become guilty of by consumers, even if it is specifically stated that the prevention of chemicals remains under ban when it is such that it is not for its own use. Thus, only the holdings of producers and distributors may be guilty of, but consumers should then go unpunished. As a result of this change, the police cease to have the authority to arrest those who are holding doses, confiscate chemicals, and use the method of testing against them. President. Finally, I would like to suggest that the matter be referred to a welfare committee. Addiction and drugs laws also refer to health ministers as well as to the subject of the bill, the main focus of the damage and health of consumer drugs, in the sector of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u12	Madam President. I'm very pleased with this case, and I support it. I kind of feel a little obliged to me because I understand that I was the first person to speak to it or the same kind of emphasis on drugs at the General Assembly. It was November 15, 2012, and I had no idea that I was the first one, and I thought this was just common sense. But I guess that's the way it was. Later, I began to look at it, and there were a lot of strange things that had been said in this category to make it possible for young ones to be vaccinated against the drug habit if they were very much involved in sports houses. I think so, for example. a very strange idea. I am delighted that whatever happens to this bill, the discussion about this subject has arrived at this place. I feel very strongly that there is a general sense of well - being and understanding of that matter, not only here at the Council, which, of course, matters very much but also in the community. It is the Red Cross with Mrs. Ragnhei, and there are other destructive measures, and all this ideologies have proved their worth. I'm pretty good on the inside, for example. The emergency line and I know a little bit about it in the hospital emergency room, and there I know that people working with this delicate group may at their worst moments support that ideologies. I understand that's the same thing with the police, and then we're kind of around and we're not waiting for anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u13	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill to set up a law on a change in drug and drug law. I'm one of the supporters of this bill and I support it. We must realize that we are dealing with individuals who are sick, sick, drug addicts. Punishing someone for being sick is kind of something I think I'm getting old-fashioned today and I can't stand. If we look back on our life span and take only alcohol as an example, people may suffer from alcoholism. No one's idea is to punish people for their alcoholism today. It's a help. Of course, we should help such individuals in all things, and we must also recognize them and must never forget that these individuals we are talking about are our children, they are sisters, brothers, even the fathers of children and these people have the right to help in every way possible. Of course, these are very difficult matters, and I realize that because I was a policeman for seven years and I've seen things going on in that job. The saddest thing about it was that in most cases it was being taken by sick individuals who were dependent on it, not by those who truly profit from it. It sucks that we live in such a society that there are people who can think of making money by putting others in the circumstances involved here. We're also coming along, and I support it with my mind, with our consumers. It tells itself that only when it comes to getting them on, and it's a personal thing that people can get unaccounted for, get clean bandages, and be taken care of, even that there's a chance, if it's bad, that people are helping one, two and three, will also benefit us because they get the things out of the areas we've seen in the news, for example, they've been able to help one, two and three. Find needles and other close to both play schools and at school and at other sites where children are playing. What a surprise it is that we have not yet taken steps to help these people! That's why we're also here to promote a plan like Mrs. Ragnhill. It has been shown that a large group is starting to trust those who trust in receiving help from the fine group working there. This is the best, and I really hope it runs through, and we're left with a much better system than we have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u14	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in drug and drug law. I want to say in terms of this that I have been very interested in these matters and that we are approaching them in a human way. I have talked about it ever since I first sat at a council in 2013. At that time, there was a great deal of discussion here, and the Pirata senators talked about these matters, and they were working to shape a policy on how to handle these issues, i.e. the treatment of drugs and criminal abuse. I remember giving a talk about it back then, and I'm in the same place that I'd like to see it become a reality. Because, as mentioned in the talks, we're dealing with people, the material that they're dealing with, not the problem, but the people who eat them. We're dealing with a disease, but most of all in my mind, it's the young people who start this process and become addicted to the materials, that they're already breaking the law, and that's double the problem from day one or two, and that's a double problem. What has changed since we were discussing this five years ago is the amazing development of these substances. There are substances today that can kill a person with a single dose. That's why I find it a little difficult to take this step now and put it on and that I'm having a little bit of a bad way of saying that I support this bill completely. I have seen this huge problem on earth, this drug problem, whether we could approach these issues in the same way we are dealing with today's climate crisis, that the nations of the world would come together to a good conclusion as to how to deal with this problem. Many countries have experimented on these subjects, and it is shown in the bill that someone has walked fairly, but for some reason, we usually lose the fight to control the drug problem. My dream is that the nations of the world can come together and decide to find a good way to cope with the threat of the drug problem. I've often mentioned that before the 1930's, alcohol was banned. At that time, the underworld and much criminal activity rose, becoming criminals who produced and sold alcohol. Today alcohol is not banned, and as a result, criminal activity in that sector is very low, but the problem of alcohol is still there. The drug takes care of its own. It presents humans on an equal basis. It helps those who want to accept help. So it must be on drugs too. However, you are not asked if you were engaging in illegal activities at the time, e.g. in treatment, but you've become a lawbreaker. Or you might consider taking the step that the person taking drugs and having a criminal record is a short period of time. That might be the first step of work or something in that direction, for it seems that the blessing of the criminal record follows individuals for quite a long time, perhaps not officially, but it can always be picked up in such situations if you want it to be true. I understand the meaning, and I agree with her, but I'm a little afraid that this is where we've come from today that we have a substance, as I said earlier, which takes a very little dose to kill. And the situation is now, so I'll put a question mark on the bill, including... That's why. I'm not gonna do this any further. I'm gonna make it a good one for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u15	President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and for participating in the discussion. I have respect for different viewpoints. How we want to handle this subject is different. Still, I did it for what I did. A senator seems to agree that harmful methodology works and is logical, but for some reason it seems afraid to fully introduce it. Hv. A senator says there is a danger that out there there there are chemicals that kill with one dose. In most cases, by making all of this illegal, no rules around it, just wild West, and that we make those with addictions and others who use drugs to criminals, people find it hard to figure out what they're buying. It's all in the black market, and people often buy substances that are just not what is advertised and that are very damaging. In most cases, this is the way people are affected by drugs. In some lands, drug users may be able to get help from the hospital, to analyze the substances they shop for, to make sure that this is what they think it is, and not something else that could be fatal or very dangerous to the drug addicts. Depression includes acknowledging that people use drugs, whether they are right or not, or whether we as a community want them or not. It's about to happen. We can see that. About 90% of them have no addiction problem. Rather, they can use drugs and have no problems. That's about 10%, however, I understand that there is a danger of dealing with addiction. [[The president calls.]] My questions are: When should we take the step? [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? A senator would imagine this if we did not take the drugs lightly? How does he see us protecting these individuals and taking care that they are not taking dangerous substances?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen for the counter-reception. I just have to admit that I don't know the answer to how I want to see this. I actually agree with the principle of the bill, but considering how things have developed, I put them in perspective. Even if we were to pass this issue and avoid consumption, there would still be no packaging that would reveal what people are about to take, because the senator mentioned information on material content. That would still be in traffic. The material I mentioned has developed in the last few years. I put up a big idea of interracial cooperation, which is naturally a little farfetched. But all of this is very farfetched, unfortunately. I just have to let myself keep running around and thinking things over. I will be observing this case and will continue to participate in the discussion, with no prejudice. But I'm just not convinced that this is what works today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u17	President. Yeah, you're right about what you're doing. A senator may still be on the market, even though we use consumer rations. The difference may be that they dare or may seek help if they need help from drug addicts. As the situation is now, we put a user drug in the position that if something serious arises, we say sexual abuse, or whatever the case, if a person is involved in drug abuse, he is reluctant and afraid to come to the police for help because he himself is a criminal of using drugs. This is an extremely difficult situation to put users in on drugs. Part of the crime - related problem is that people can and would be more able and willing to come out and seek help when they need it. I think it is more logical to put youths in, who may be just messing with, let alone those who have real problems and who need help and should get help from the health system rather than hide. Hv. A senator spoke in his talk about the gangs created during the Prohibition and how it went to the underworld, and conditions back then were rather ugly. That's why I'd like to ask you, which one? A senator may be in favor of some kind of routine on drugs, whether or not we're just ordering ourselves to get rid of the underworld and that ugly black market and violence that's going to take place there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for second answer. I must say just as it is in my heart, I am. And I was really hard at this a few years ago, but somehow... did I have a good time? [[Take it up: have fun.]] No, he may not have entertained me, but he has shown that it's so complicated, and I feel that countries need to come together. We now see that tests are made in the United States with cannabis, and I'm interested in how they develop. I'm not starting to see any direct answers to that. In a perfect world, I'd just like to see it legal. Sadly, though, the world we live in is not yet perfect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u19	He'll be late now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson Sigurður this discussion. I couldn't help but think about it when the senator pointed out that there should be a reminder for those who take drugs if I understood it correctly. But then we must look at those who receive legal prescription medication, strong painkillers, opioids, all kinds of strong drugs. People can become dependent on it and then go to other materials. How should they be punished? Can it be punished? For example, consider a person who is on a waiting list after an operation for a year. I tried, it took me two weeks or three weeks to get my pain medication off, strong painkillers, everything. If I'd had ◯tendens to become an addict, where would I have stood? Should I have been punished if I had strayed from the path and fallen into addiction? I'm just asking. How are we supposed to tackle these things?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson. I can't quite figure out if I said it was supposed to be reduced. I talked about shorting the time of a criminal record. That's what I meant. It's like today, if you, well. A senator, after you had been on that prescription drug at the time, you would have been guilty of illegal conduct in the way the law is today. [[Up front.]] I'm sorry. Like I said to Halldóra? Mogensen I completely agree that this is a big problem. I'm not saying I want to shrink the broken, but maybe we can take some step into this. As I mentioned earlier, the times have changed, and only in the five years since the first meeting, I discussed them, feeling that they were very simple, that they had developed, and that the drug world is lost. I don't think it's as simple today as I thought it was then, that's kind of the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. We are so little hypocrites. There is an incredible hypocrisy in the system when we have drugs, powerful drugs, which are legal, that doctors can prescribe and can get, and they can also kill themselves, they can also become addicted to them. You can buy legal drugs and get high on them, you can only do that. If you do so legally, it's okay, but if you go outside the box and actually do the exact same thing, it's illegal. It tells us that we have to jump this system. I'm asking why. A senator doesn't agree with me. We need to jump this whole system up. We have to start looking at this from a completely different angle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for second answer. Yes, I can say that it can be called hypocrisy how we approach these matters, such as prescription related drugs, illicit drugs, and alcohol. It's just a big problem. As I said before, it's not as simple in my mind as it was as if things had developed in recent years, and that's why I put this bill in front of me. But I find this very interesting discussion that we are in right now and would be happy to participate if we could resolve it once and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u24	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of foreigners, of the right of children to a permanent dwelling. That's why we're here. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, Þorsteinn Vímursson, Björn K. Gunnarsson's Rósa, Hrafn Helgadóttir Andrés, Brynjólfsdóttir S.. The bill was first submitted to a Council of 147th. Then there was head of Pawel Bartoszek, Senator of the Cradle, but the case was not arranged at that time. Since then, it has been proposed to the 148th legislature and went back to the Senate, but it was not granted. Little wonder, then, that by presenting the matter again, it is the sincere desire of tourists to find out about this time through the council. The bill has changed several times since its first request, including to respond to comments on the case at the 148th legislature. So I'm just going over the points of the bill, which aren't far, so it's suggested that it be 1st. Sixty-niner. the law on foreign languages is said, by permission of the President: ▪ The child of Icelandic or other Norwegian citizen who has a permanent residence in this country or a foreigner who lives here on the basis of a temporary license under these laws may obtain entitlement on the basis of family cooperation to meet conditions of 55.g. and VIII. section but children are considered to be under 18 years of age in the custody and proselytism of the child. The same applies to one of the closest members of Iceland or another Norwegian citizen who has a permanent residence in this country or to a foreigner who lives here on the basis of a dwelling permit at the same time. 61, 63, 70, 73, 74, and 78th. .............. 58. g. For those closest to them, marriage mates, and parents are 67 years of age and older. The same applies also to marriage mates and to those who pursue higher education, doctors, and research here on the basis of the 65th paragraph. Transporters also suggest a change of 1 mg. 71. g. The law says so, by permission of the President: If a parent has a permit on the basis of these laws, he or she is authorized to give a child under 18 years of age. The objective of the bill is to make a principle that all the children of Iceland who have a valid residence permit, if they are under 18 years of age, have a right to a living permit on the basis of their parents'permission. This guarantees the right of children who have parents from countries outside the European Economic Area to accompany their parents to Iceland and provide them with protection from parental separation, such as 9. United Nations Convention on Child Rights In accordance with local laws on foreigners, if parents have a permit on the basis of various specific circumstances, it is permitted to issue permanent residence for children. Yet, not all who have the right to have children with them. Therefore, the movers suggest changes in current legislation, with the intention of granting a child a residence permit regardless of what his or her parent's authority is. Undeniably, the wording of the bill comes from the complexity and often difficultness of our alien laws with repeated references. I want to use this opportunity to criticize it. The change could have been made more clearly if the law was not in general as vague as it really is. In this 1st statement. The bill, such as it is, simply means that children under 18 years of age and the custody of citizens or the responsorts can be granted permanent residence licenses, such as the safety and maintenance of health insurance. The list of articles later in the provision is the same as in the current law and will take over to the rest of the children's immediate members, i.e. the spouse, the children for living, and the parents of 67 years of age and older. Thus, their position of rights will remain unchanged. This bill allows only the right of children to be sheltered on the basis of their parents'permission. Mr. President. However, when the bill was submitted to the 148th legislature, there were some reviews, as mentioned earlier, and I would like to mention some of those who responded. The Children's Childhood declaration sent to the bill for support and said that children should, in any case, be asked to have a living permit in this country if their parents had a living permit, so that the child and their family were sought accordingly. Reykjavíkurburg's Human Rights Council welcomed the bill but pointed out that there were still some articles missing for people who had temporary leave to stay on the land, and then children should always be loyal to their parents. At that time, an agent of the children's bill welcomed the bill, but he showed that children were needed to follow their parents, who were temporarily granted permission. These comments have been accepted, and if the bill becomes legal, the children of those who have a valid somewhere in the country should be allowed to follow their parents according to the other conditions mentioned here. We'd like to talk about Iceland being the land of opportunity. It comes with making it possible for people we want to come here without the opportunity to divorce their families on a temporary basis. It is then important that all laws govern the well - being of children. The principle we need to follow is that a child should always have what is best for the child. A law that discriminates families based on the nature of parental permission that does not follow such a principle. In the case of a lack of staff, it is a requirement under the current legal law that valid housing parents should not bring children to the country, but in the case of patents on the basis of expertise, it is mandatory that children be allowed to follow their parents here. For example, such laws do not fulfill this obligation. It's an invitation to get a good look at the situation. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, come back here to the second. as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u25	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007. With me on the bill Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. We have often talked about how painful it is when legislation is developed so that it can be exalted in all directions and that the law is not clear enough, as it turned out. paritaprevir Hanna, the Friðriksson of Katrín, before me, spoke of the 69th par. Laws other than those I'm about to discuss now, page 69. The social security songs. Would it be a very good thing if we were to put ourselves together in the face and work in the legislation so that beyond all doubt, what we meant and what we were saying with the rules we set for the citizens? Before I go to the bill, I'd like to mention the possibility that we at The Gang of the People will call for this change. From the moment I arrived here as the elected representative of the Allied Council of Iceland, I'd like to refer to the 69ndreg. In my opinion, a social security law which has been broken in terms of paying to social security employees, how the correction that comes automatically over each year has been passed on a consumer's credit card instead of following a general pay development in the country, as I would like to interpret 69.g. The law says it means. That is why I have also announced that a group of people will seek the truth of the case before the courts, and we are working on such a lawsuit. The European Commission has also sought an opinion from an agent on what this article is saying. I'd like to refer to the Al Parliament's agency's tip on a law order for the increase in social security, which says for a word, by permission of the President: ▪ An agent has pointed out to the government that the purpose of the social security law, with regard to pay development criteria, is to serve and to make it clearer. That's exactly what we in Floki's been suggesting right now, making things clearer and leaving no doubt about what they're saying. At the same time, the government agent of the Generals explained that it would be better in accordance with careful administrative practices that detailed explanations were in a financial bill on the basis of change. There's talk of improvement here. We'd like to say that this is forwarding. These are the wages of the pensioners, which we find rather disparaging to call compensation. We don't want to call this a disability settlement or anything like that, it's a insurance company pension. This is what we need in order to accomplish. The above quotations appear in a letter sent to the councilmen who conduct social security and financial legislation, as well as to the World Health Committee, following a complaint from the National Social Association of Iceland. She took advantage of the financial and economic decisions made on how pay development is assessed in making a proposal to make a budget for changes in sums of money. Making alliance, including Notes suggest that the generally so-called pay sheet is derived from a pay card for calculating and the basis for the increase in social security. According to the legal code in question, the improvements in social security should be changed annually according to each budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. This is where every bill that I'm going to introduce you to is actually what it means. It is very important to turn these things away from a current rule that is open to both ends. Then it says here: From the prehistory of the provisional plan, it can be concluded that when it comes to improvement, remuneration should be taken into account in terms of pay development was not intended by the legislatator to maintain increases in the specific index, such as the pay number. Therefore, there is room for a minister to evaluate and take into consideration different circumstances when it is difficult for him to cope with the challenges of earning a living. The proposals for improvement in budgets 2018 and 2018 have, in both cases, expected a greater rise than predicted by the index price of consumption, and therefore, it was not against the law. Despite this conclusion, an agent felt that there was a reason to bring to the attention appropriate government the matters of opinion indicated by the Microcontinental Community in their complaint and were taken into consideration. He directed them to take their stand on the possibility of having a financial project that will result from the discussion of pay development laws, a clearer legal foundation. As a general view, when testing the Constitutional rights of the citizens to provide assistance for the sake of sickness, disability, or old age, there is a need to set aside an abundance of demands and, in general, the implementation of the lawgiver's rights. It may be better to inform more about this in the bill for financial purposes in case of an increase in improvement, e.g. not based on names raise used elsewhere in the bill. Further explanations would be better in line with careful administrative practices. An agent's letter states that the presentation and explanations of the proposal for changes in payment may have significant significance for those who are supported by these payments. - It's a basic translation because the flogging of what is known as the social group is no less than 29% in the past ten years. It is important to share in the field service to see how the scales used in the budget were applied so that, depending on the experiences, they can communicate their comments to the Council. It would be a part of the government's work to make it easier for citizens, based on better information, to participate in the social talk and on issues discussed by the General Assembly. A respectable president. Now I'm going to go back to introducing the change in the social security bill. 1st par. The bill reads: ◯69. par. The law says: Pays social security, as well as payments according to 63rd. and budgets according to 22nd. g., should be changed annually according to the pay sheet, although it will never increase less than the prices measured by the index price. That's where we totally turn this thing. There is full doubt here that it will always, without question, always, without question, be expected to calculate the correcting of the progress of social security in the land, pay development, and not an index of consumer prices unless it is more practical. Two. It is said that the Law's seven, 12, 15, and 17 sections of a provisional law should be removed. In the 3rd. says that this law is already valid but implemented during the pressures of public pay during 2020, due to the income of 2019 C.E. A report says: According to the 69th grade. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, we'll improve social security, stress payment at 63 p.m. The law and money, according to the 22nd bill. g., change annually in accordance with budgets, and their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the dierent price. It may have been planned in the beginning to ensure that microattainers and pensioners are experiencing increases in the proportion of donations compared to the public, as is generally the case. In practice, however, the principle seems to be that the index of consumer prices will improve even if it increases much less than the pay sheet. Where the Council serves the budget, according to Article 41. The Constitution and current legislation commits the General Assembly to determine the rise of improvement, the courts have felt that it would be out of their role to determine whether the right to rise according to the 69th paragraph. Act on social security. Therefore, it is suggested that there be improvements in pay development at all times, as shown in the Office's pay sheet. A connection to interest values is recognized in other laws, e.g. will change the amount of damage done every month according to a credit card number, as per Article 15. Pondering, No. 50/1993. The bill suggests that contributions and other payments under social security laws take into account the development of a pay number. Must be considered fair, since compensation on the basis of the law is generally to be replaced by employment that an invalid cannot earn or that a pensioner no longer enjoys. A government fund has increased when pay is raised, as income is rising, as income tax stocks grow. Therefore, there is a agreement between the increase in the budget and the increase in income. It is suggested, though, that improvements will never increase less than the prices of the index price. This will make sure that improvement will not be abrupt if there is a negative reward. It is also suggested that the fractions of the provision for temporary mobilization of the Social Security Act, referred to by Article 69. and are no longer relevant. I'm very proud that we have come up with some changes in the bill that leave no doubt about the very meaning of the 69. g. The social security songs. In an article on this article in the bill at its time, in the law, and in the form of 69 C.E. it is clear what the legislatator's will was. The Lawgiver's will was never to leave disability behind and those who have to rely totally on their advancement, according to 69 C.E. The social security songs. The lawgiver's will was never like that, although this has been used for quite a long time. I remember that until 2013 there has always been a premonition on page 69. because it was known that the actual meaning of the article to follow general pay development in the country was being interrupted. Especially after a collapse, the poor and those sitting at the bottom of the stage had to make a hard move, and like everyone else, they were not excluded. It's certainly not improved yet, and it's kind of sad to say, and I repeat what I said before, that the 29% gap between those who have absolutely to rely on and can only survive the progress of social security will always be larger. It is now, for example. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. The difference between months for those who have to rely on the social security update versed by unemployment reformers. All I say is that the message that is constantly being sent to this group that the milk, bread, and potato is something cheaper when an invalid and poor person goes out to buy, that there's something cheaper for that group, and that's why he needs less than a penny, is ugly, really ugly. Of course, the milk can cost microattainers and pensioners who have nothing more to rely on than 69 C.E. That's how much their social security laws are. That's why I hope this is on standby. It's not a fundamental change, except that it attracts clarity. This is simply more clear and easier to work with, so that what we are talking about is beyond any doubt. I am very optimistic about the fact that this is going to be taken care of. I can't understand why it shouldn't be. I'd be surprised. I don't have much to say about it unless I'm going to point the case to what. A welfare committee - unless it's an economic and business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u26	The President has the information that the matter applies to the welfare committee, i.e. if no one says anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u27	I will not object to any objections, a respectable president, and as of this moment, I look forward to the matter's going to happen. A welfare committee, hopefully get a good reception there, and that we get what we're getting back into the council as soon as possible to discuss it together, perhaps even then much more, but not just three in the hall, just as we are now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u28	A respectable president. We're talking about bill to legalize the social security law, No. 100/2007, the sum of benefits, from the Gang of the People. It's kind of pathetic to have to explain more clearly the 69th. If I recall, someone when she was put on trial that it had been so firmly established that her shoulder and belt had placed on her and could only raise pension pay accordingly. But it did not. The article says that the amount of money is adjusted in accordance with the budget and should never increase less than the price of an index price. Now, we suggest the adjustment to improve with annual pay development. And what does that mean? Yes, e.g. The rate of improvement will increase by the next year according to the index of more than 3%, near 3.5%, but the increase should be close to 6% if only the pay will be considered. That doesn't tell the whole story, though. If we look at the centenarian in this context, we are talking about the increase in the next year's raise to about 1,000 dollars. per month. If we look at that amount of tax, we're talking about a hundred thousand thousand and one hundred. increase in a month, which is an incredibly low and small increase compared to expenses and other items, which have generally come for years. Another factor that remains to be noted is the blundering between the paymen and the pension paid by the government. It's probably about 30% of the hench, most of whom would have made a much higher payment if the state's Penitentiary had been corrected like everyone else. She has been corrected by everyone else, but unfortunately, this group was left behind. We've also provided a bill that there should be a minimum of 300,000 dollars, tax and derelicts, a minimum implementation. Yet, there they dance around the poverty line. What's forgotten about this - and what a shame it is that we are so few in the hall - is the tremendous increase the members have received. If we put it in context, the salary of the senators has increased since 2008, at a certain time, about 600,000 dollars. a month while pensioners about 10% of it, 60,000 dollars. This cent number is ridiculous. In this context, I would like to suggest that now the recent conclusion of the main meeting of Iceland's Micro-Communication Coalition, held at 4,◯5. October, 2019. With the permission of the president, I'm going to quote a report from that meeting: One year, the gap between microenergy and minimum wage increases. It sucks that me and the Icelanders have decided that some of us are keeping our lives very poor. Although prime minister does not want to ask poor people to wait for righteousness, they are still waiting. The main meeting of the Microclerical League challenges the nation to make sure that the wait is now completed. No one knows who next has to rely on an ignominious disability pension. In the long term, the minimum wage is low, and unemployment improvements should only be short - term provisions until people get back to work. Nevertheless, microsurgents are required to live for a long time, even throughout their lives, on income that is much lower than the minimum wage and unemployment. During 2008, the minimum wage and incessant biofuels were understood. Today, there are 70,000 microenergy pensions. lower than minimum wage. The financial bill now available for the Council does not change, so the gap will increase to 86,000. month next year. In the discussion of the former prime minister's debate in September 2017, the current prime minister said that poor people in Iceland should not be asked to wait for justice. She said the government assumes that the poor and the elderly would go on and enjoy shameful terms. Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has had two years to live up to those words. People in poverty still wait How long will people have to wait? It is no secret that while the Typian four party has been in power over the past few decades, any of these groups, poor people will have to wait. It is clear that no changes will be made during this and while we choose the classes that want to maintain, have done, and are doing so. The percentage system is also a gigantically unjust, so we need to change completely. It will tell itself if we are going to raise disability by 3.5%, which is just around $12,000. Also, there are differences in the amount of pensions available, some living at very poor, others at poverty, and most under poverty limits. 3% of 300,000 dollars. is 9,000 k. and we also know that 3% of 1 million is 30,000 k. That's where the sky is and the sea apart, and that's why it's hard to believe that we should continue with a percentage bill. We're supposed to make sure once and for all that time. It is what has been tried by so - called biographies that have been made and yet this government succeeds at the biographer agreements to leave the poor people behind. Yet, it condones, even those who are supposed to be on short - term non - workers have more than 30,000 dollars. more than a month. This tells us that the government will maintain the system. Still, I hope very much that we can continue this matter. I'll continue to follow it up on the welfare committee, hoping that it will get out of the Committee and to vote so that we can get it at least so as not to permanently be breaking the microbe by not getting the combined percentages of pay as shown at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u29	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of income tax law, with subsequent changes, the enterprises excluded capital tax on deck. Ninety-six. Transporters with me have a problem. The men of the council of Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Brubbar the Brynjar of Níelsson, Jón the son of Gunnarsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson of Friid, Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Arnath, and Brutí the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir. The bill has been submitted before, but it has not been achieved. The purpose of this is that enterprises which are exclusively used for the public goods and which are excluded from the tax obligations for income taxes will also be excluded from capital taxes. Clearly, much and often the only income of these partners is funded, for example, in the case of funds funded by schools, students, health institutions, etc., and there are reports that there is little left to do the original purpose where capital taxes consume everything. It's 4 mg. 71. g. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, is a list of non-employers of income tax paying capital taxes from selected revenues. The tax obligation includes to the taxpayers who are housebound in this country, spending their profits solely for the greater good and having it as their own approved goal. The bill indicates that the legislators who meet the criteria of Figure 4. The CREEP Act should also include the exception of financing tax. The general rule is that all lawyers are taxable. From this rule, you can find exceptions in Article 4. income taxes, however, are mainly relevant for two exceptions, i.e. depending on the 4th and 5th counts. On one hand, it is those who practice employment and spend all their profits on public goods and on the other hand, those who do not practice employment. As a general rule, the terms of the legislation on the job do not test until headcounts are passed on and in the case of profit-employed activities. According to the government taxpayer's information, there is a test of the Qualification from one business year to the next, and this is followed by an expanded nature of the matter according to a profit policy. On the other hand, if the attorney is fired by a loss, another matter may be involved. The legislators that can be ruled under the 4th issue of ensignment, Article 4. income tax taxes are common in business or employment, and should be submitted annually to the head of the RSK 1.04 as well as to annual accounts according to the terms of 1 mg. 90. gt. income taxation. These persons are listed in a tax base file, which is then permitted, as long as they meet the 4. ki., reimbursement, or tax - related gains, so that it does not come to his taxation. However, these persons carry capital taxes in accordance with Article 4. 71. g. Job activity has been defined as a continuous and profit - rich routine. It's the 5th count. The law is an enterprise, funds and institutions that do not run the job under the general obligation of income taxes, but should be paid to pay a fiscal tax. The majority of these parties are registered in an enterprise registry as partners and in a tax base as non-employmentable tax returns to the general tax. These persons who can earn money that is public interest and that is not related to jobs, such as funding, social bills, and revenues, will pay tax returns if they pay insurance fees, capital taxes from non-consuming income, or if they are to be paid due tax. If none of this is the case, these parties do not have to turn in tax returns and subsidies taxation taxes and their deposit on a local taxpayer is the final result of application. Among these communities are the number of people who are involved in issues that are considered to be public interest. In fact, these sides may be owners of partners who fall under Article 4 of that law. Partneral organizations are not set up in an enterprise registry in a way that is discussed here rather than in public interest. They are non-requirement to total income taxation in the tax database and are only due tax returns on the above-mentioned terms. They have not been classified as a tax base on the basis of their record, but they do not have information available in an enterprise file. The bill does not reach such a partner. Reports from last year include a list of the local taxpayer 73 agencies who had received formal confirmation that the profits of their employment were spent for the greater good and had thus received an exception from the payment of a general income tax from that profit. On the basis of current income tax laws and on the basis of comparable regulations in the older income tax laws, however, there are no ideals based on government taxpayers' information. Given the standards of financial institutions, the interest rate of the individuals involved in 2017 28.6 billion was reduced. K. of capital pay the sum of over 144 million. K. The year before, in 2016, the market payment was 27.6 billion. K. of capital pay that amount 136.6 billion. K. According to government taxpayer's information, other capital gains, such as profits and stock markets, are negligible. Mr. President. After this discussion, I would like the bill to be sent to the right. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-15.u30	V.E.G. President. I give a synonym proposal, which means that the General Assembly concluded to hide the Minister of Justice to set up a team of workers who will be assigned to shape proposals for improved domestic violence practices between local social services, health institutions, schools, and police services. Necessary population must include ... toimprove proposals for clear legal documents on the provision of domestic violence between social authorities, health authorities, academic authorities and police authorities and establish a government - based field of cooperation. The secretary would like to introduce the results of the task force as late as June 2020. The idea of this was sparked when I listened to Chalkak, a radio show on Channel 1, made by radioman Viktoría Hermannsdóttir. The program presents interviews with victims of domestic violence and specialists who handle such matters. It was obvious that this series of subjects could be done better and better guaranteed by the safety laws of the victims. I began to look into the matter and was considered by a number of specialists. The controversy proposal presented today is a total result. The sufferers of domestic violence often hold back from reporting the violence to the police. In smaller rural areas where most people know one another, it may be equally difficult to report domestic violence. Therefore, it is important that governments who work closely with citizens have broad sources of authority to take the initiative to intervene and cooperate with other governments on how to react to such offenses. Although the government's regulations have ensured the cooperation of police with other governments, the cooperation must also be formalized in the other direction, i.e. with the announcements of social authorities, health authorities and educational institutions to the police and with their cooperation between other authorities. In order for such information to take place effectively, in the interest of fracture tolerance, the more preactive legislation needs to be used to provide information. That's the point. All agreements between institutions of society need to take place by participation and consenting to violations. This is another very important point that needs to be held in high esteem. However, when there is reason to believe that a child has witnessed domestic violence or has been tolerated, it must be ensured that involvement and consent are not thwarted by government intervention that is contrary to the child's interests. The interests of the child must always take first place in such matters. Whether there is a need to make room for a child - care board or a better identification of a child - care committee should be made of announcements by the government. The objective of this procedure is to revise the current system to simplify social authorities, health authorities and educational authorities to share information between them and the police. Finally, I suggest that this case be referred to the General and Education Committee for further discussion.
