ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u1	We've got a letter from 3rd. That's the north side. "Sigmid Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, and the sixth. Smoke. For example, Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér says that they will be absent in the near future in public affairs. A letter has also been received by the chairman of Porta's Council of 4th. Smoke. So, Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, will be absent at the next time in public affairs. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, who served as a guardian of the 1st Public Party lists in the district, the Þorgrimur Sigmundsson, 1st, the left movement's list of green bids in the district, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, and the 1st district assistant of Pirate, Olga Margrét Cilia. They have all been invited to serve at the General Assembly before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u2	There have been letters received from the following labourlors requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From travel, industrial and innovation ministers for the request of a panel. 440, about the power transfer to Finnfjordur, from Hanna Katrín Friðriksson; from the social and child-registry for the application of decks. 470, on the loss of social security money, from Ólafur Ísleifsson, and finally from the Environment and Resource Minister for the challenge. 463, for a peaceful territory, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u3	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress on the length of meetings suggests that a conference can be held today, but it is the norm that it can be arranged if necessary. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It is, and then we'll take that vote along with a vote on a minor variation later at the meeting, i.e. after the unprepared time of query.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u4	To answer, Ministers of Education and Culture, Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u5	Mr. President. The shocking news is that a large Icelandic fishing company is suspected of gross illegalities, and very low - listening sexual immorality has naturally been brought to life in a discussion of the Icelandic seabed. It is not surprising that such reports raise suspicion and that the common people wonder if there is some sort of trick in this country as well. Various people have pointed out problems in our system. These include unexplained cover - ups and much more about the value of individual species, depending on whether they are sold here or in our neighboring countries. The cost of macroil in Norway in 2018 was 300% higher than in Iceland. It is important to investigate, for if this is the case, it is to have money from sailors, from rural areas, and from the state. Thus, this is necessary both for the public, and more so for the developers themselves. Of course, special discussions involve low hunting costs. Residents, for example. macroil on the same tickets as Icelanders, offering part of the quatane out. Entries get 113 bucks. in the fishing fees for that part, but Iceland's executives approved hunting fees at 3.55. ... apoundhere. Icelanders, by the way, charge hunting charges for mackerel, which are about 3% of what the movers receive from their invitations. So I ask two very simple questions and expect the highest. A minister gives them the flimsy response: Does the minister feel the tremendous difference between mackerel and our neighbors in terms of practicality, and does he intend to take some action? Secondly: Is a minister willing to request an independent official investigation of the prices of individual species, e.g. mackerel, on the cross-cutting of fish?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, which is very good and well presented. It is true that the recent debate on fishing is not good enough in Iceland. It is filled with suspicions about the article, and all kinds of accusations are being made. Whatever the case, it is not for the benefit of the industry. Here are two perfectly normal questions to ask and probably answer as best you can. First, I would like to state that the price of earnings has been discussed in a number of cases within the Ministry, especially with comments coming from the Ak Arane's Labor Association. Then we recorded it within the Ministry. We're doing some special work. I expect to be able to introduce to you soon next year the way we're going to do this, but it's in a process, and it's based on an independent investigation to give some explanation for the price that has been in Iceland's discussion. In that respect, I can totally agree with the comments that have been made on the need for this objective examination to determine the results for us to deal with. But I'm not going to get out at this point in a conversation about different fishing costs in Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, because I understand, without complete knowledge, that there are significant changes ahead and good if they haven't already been in the Faeroe Islands on their salary in the fishing system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u7	Mr. President. V.E.G. According to a minister, there is suspicion here in the industry that will be of no use to us. In view of the information that has been presented, does he not feel that there is a feeling of being suspicious and that he is not much more concerned about the lack of interest in the public? If it is systematically being played, legally or illegally, to this system of ours, and that it reduces marine, rural, and state income and we struggle to live up to our both legal and illegal roles while the profession that the Ministers worry about is concerned about can cause billions and billions of dollars in profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to say that the sector here for discussion is beneficial to the public, has been through the years, and is still, fortunately speaking. Depending on the level of rivers in the work, some may vary from one job to another. I simply reiterate in this hall that there has been a comparison of fishing incomes with other industry, and I understand those of whom the comparison has made that the sea route does not come out as a winner from that comparison. However, there is no debate about interest from businesses other than fishing, at least not a lot of pressure. I think it would be good for everyone to take up a discussion in one of the global markets and compare it to other employment projects. I reiterate that the suspicions created by this extraordinary issue are bad, regardless of what it looks like. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u9	President. When it comes to not saying anything with the greatest number of words, I think it's the best. A sea chief wins the prize in that game today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u10	Do you have a question for me?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u11	No. In the news last night, RUS said the highest. Minister of Justice, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, believed that the sentence of the European Court of Human Rights in the European Court of Justice did not have much precedent in Europe. This most recent comment by the Minister is inconsistencies with the Minister's own statement on the matter so far. In fact, they contradict all the government and the government in this matter so far. V.E.G. A minister must remember when she said on September 9, by permission of a president: ▪ We wanted to have the results reviewed because we thought they were too far off. It can also have exemplary values. This view has also been made clear in announcements made by the Ministry of Justice. An article by the state attorney defines the precedent of the court in its argument to the head of the European Court of Human Rights. A greater proportion of the legal committee cites the precedent to increase funds to the same state lawyer about 8 million to reverse the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Besides, it's got the highest. Of course, the prime minister is concerned that the precedent for the decision for other European countries is one of the main reasons for the decision to appeal. The government somehow had to justify the appeal as well as continued uncertainty about the legal system in Iceland, justifying spending much time and money in turning the conclusion that local judges have been appointed to serve as good ministers. Justice was one of the main reasons that the decision had a precedent throughout Europe and the right to get the opinion of the head of the department in the National Court. President. It's at the top of the world. A minister is in a bitter contrast to himself and, in fact, his fellow member of the government. So I must ask, Why does a minister now insist that this case has no precedent? This is just one question: Why is the matter all of a sudden? And what does that say about all the journeys we have decided to take?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator is very much concerned with this inquiry. I am kind and obliged to correct this because it has caused some misunderstanding, or I was confused. We have thought that the decision of the European Court of Human Rights could have great consequences for Iceland as well as for other European countries in which any relevant treatment, including At any point in the order of a judge, it may result in an absolute inequities of judgment regardless of the technical nature of the problem. That's what's even. points to our report that we can have exemplary values in other lands. In the news last night, however, I was referring to Poland and the hearings there, where the interview was specific and that of Poland. I cannot see that the case we have for the head of the department can be exemplary for Poland's position. It is a very different matter, and for that I was referring to my comments on the news yesterday. If I was confused, and there might be some misunderstanding, it would be corrected here. I'm sorry if it is, but to make it clear, I strongly believe that the independence of the courts is completely guaranteed and that there is simply no connection between Iceland and the matter of independence in Poland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u13	President. It is good to know that a minister considers the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights to be exemplary and that this case has unprecedented value in Europe. But what I would like to pray to the highest. The Minister of Justice explaining further is why she feels that this is so completely different from what is happening in Poland. The political government is now supporting the Icelandic State's legal rights because they consider the matter to be an example. In fact, Polish governments are clear about receiving the National Court's right to stand, and the changes made by the Polish government and wanting to bring about the judicial system are of enormous importance. These developed changes in Polish governments have, in fact, been criticized as a means of follow - even persecution against the judges and courts of the country. So I ask the highest. A minister of what it builds when it says that this is not an example for the Polish or Polish government in the way it is taking place and whether it wondered what way the Icelandic state is taking, when the U.S. government's lawsuit profites those who want to destroy the independence of the courts in Poland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Can't she compare? Does she see any similarity between these two cases? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u14	A respectable president. According to 36 st. The Convention of Human Rights can provide either written comments or participate in any case before the lower or upper court, and Poland can use that right this time. Other countries have done this and have kept doing it repeatedly in regard to the various matters, so it is not wrong to have some opinion about what it does for us. We continue to present the matter on our basics and to make no changes in our situation, even though Poland intends to bring her own case. The matter in Poland is that it is being replaced for political reasons, that has been discussed there, and that is, of course, totally unrelated to what the National Court is about. [[Up front.]] No, no reviews were being replaced. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator to be clear about the issue where qualified judges were appointed for various reasons, including Homological and judicial experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u15	A respectable president. The highest. Social and child - care minister informed micromasks when to replace 10,000 K. The tax and derelict will be paid out? Will it be by Christmas or not? It would be good for this group to know, for he received the smallest Christmas bonus, except for all those who suffered indignities due to pension money and other tax payings and thus received nothing, received no crown in a Christmas bonus at the command of this government, which is a miserable way in which they are the worst in society and need the most support. Christmas is ahead, and 200 people expect to need help from the City of Salvation Army in Reykjavík before Christmas. At that time, the 300 to 4,400 homes of the weekly Food Committee need to be taken care of, and Christmas aid will cost a family scholarship committee about 30 million. K. For this Christmas. By then the church's relief work is expected to be of assistance to 1,200, disorders by Christmas, 3,500 people. Iceland's family help expects 2,000 homes to be helped during Christmas celebrations in the capital area and in the town of Rhinestown. In total, some 10,000 people need the help they need during Christmas, and a large group of them need food help all year long. There are thousands of children in the home, and it is totally unacceptable that year after year people are being kept in such a dreary poverty trap because of their lack of food, much less for the children. What's the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs to proceed with this case? Does he think it's all right like this or not? Don't you think it's time for him to make sure that no one has to go to a relief organization after food assistance in Iceland? 14,000 people live in material want, poverty, here on earth, and some 3,000 people live in dire need, very poor, in Iceland today. When will the 1 0,000 be paid? The tax and decrepit payout? From the above, we can see that it is needed as soon as, of course, much more for this worst, rousing group that is left on the budget of each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The Senator asks if there is enough to do with those with the lowest income in this community. I'd like to mean that it isn't merely disability because there are more people who are in poor condition than disability-employers. Then I'd like to say: No, we've never done enough about it. In our rich society, let's see that people have to line up for Christmas every year to accept food. But we are working on a variety of measures to reduce such. The senator specifically mentioned a 10,000 - year term. December supplementation that should be tax free and not be impaired. She's here even. ... becauseof the actions of this government through a budget board and a greater part of it working to make such a suggestion. Once it is approved, we can put it in order to prepare to pay it out. Of course, it will take some time, but hopefully not too long. We can't do this until the case has been approved so that it can go on and then the insurance agency can pay it out. There the thought is that there will be tax freedom and that there will be no impairments in the system elsewhere. I agree with what. Senator, we've never done enough on these matters. Hv. A senator testifies to children, and while there is one child who lives in poverty, the only child is too much. In international contrast, we are doing well, but better, if possible. I can say with what. A senator's concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. He himself answered during a question period when I asked him how a certain group got a bad Christmas bonus, how was it possible for only one group to be taken out and reduced by him the Christmas bonus, the lowest of the Christmas bonuses. We watch that we senators get a full Christmas bonus, or not, but only the tax. Everybody gets him but this one group. Then you're using all your income to cut down the Christmas bonus. Would he feel that way? He replied that it was just because it had been there for the past few years. Is it normal, then, for such things to continue year after year? Then he must view those who accept food help because of poverty. They're supposed to wait years for a year. I'm asking, doesn't he have any solution for this? Is this supposed to be like this on government orders?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u18	A respectable president. I would like to quote again that the current government has proposed, including... 1 0,000 k. Special supplements. I know it may not be enough, but there is, at least, effort in the right direction as well as to the fact that it will not be affected and will not be taken from this tax. This is a suggestion that has come from the greater part of the council, so that is where we are moving toward a change. Then, too, I'd like to say that we are involved in the preparation of a substantial system modification to respond, including, A report published last year by Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson is subject to the poverty of children. This is where we are preparing a system modification procedure to take children in particular. It's unacceptable in a community like ours that families with children have to go to free parties for Christmas and for holidays. I'm totally agreeing with what. A senator's concern. The system we build, the safety network we build, should grab these children and their families.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u19	Mr. President. REVIEW gives me quite a mind. VOLV takes in large amounts of advertising within the country, as it is clear, and VOLV is the dominant figure in a commercial market. RUSH Government includes monitoring the management of the Agency. According to Article 3.1, an unusual constitution, by permission of the president, is presented in a report by the National Review Committee: ▪ When considering the governance of The Kingdom Radio, Ohf. there are two elements that stand out from what can be called a general arrangement in public societies owned by the State. On one hand, the Ministry of Education and Culture replaces the government's holding of financial and economic rights that normally performs this role under 43.g. track No. 123/2015, public financial matters. However, as expected in the 44 st. it's a government law. Instead, a representative is chosen at the General Assembly. - Agent Political. So the question is, chief. Minister of Education, whether it is possible to change the arrangement of the RUS administration and to hide the minister of finance and economics from the appointing of RUS. Does a minister believe that the funds offered to the State Radio are used by economic efficiency and efficiency? Does a minister agree with the State Accounting View that it is desirable to separate responsibilities from professional and business responsibilities?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, for asking about the arrangement and in the report of the Kingdom Review. First, I want to say that I wanted to be a minister for the report because I felt that it was very important that we go to the stitches on certain issues that had been disputed, including. to establish a subsidiary on competitiveness. I welcome the report that has very good tips on how to do things better. RUSB has informed me that she will put on a teenage society as soon as possible, where there was certain legal uncertainty, according to the government's opinion. A review of it, along with its assessment, gave strong evidence of how to separate this business even further. Regarding the senator's request for order in the management of RUS, whether there should be a change, whether the Minister of Economic and Economic Affairs should prefer to appoint the government, it is that in other parts of the North countries, the Ministry of Education and Culture is under the order of state radio administration and I believe that there are professional reasons for which the RuV activity of culture, language, and so on. That's why I think that order in the RUS administration should be under the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Education for the Answer. Actually, I wasn't fishing for what it was like in other parts of the North countries, but I still understand the answer. This report also revealed concern and concern over the situation of the management board. He has been repeatedly rescued by so - called monomeristic operations, with the loss of property. Of course, when it comes to selling property, you do not do it over and over again with the same possessions. Therefore, in view of this development and the fact that RUS is actually operating in the present form, do I ask: Is the minister of this position?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u22	A respectable president. RUSH situation is very important, and trust in nuV is very much. I think there's a good deal of agreement on the importance of media media media media and the importance of TRUV at the media market, but also that VOLV is very much to be taken care of. The Senator asks me if I believe RUSV is fit and what the situation is. My answer is that we now do very carefully review all the comments published in the state reexamination report, and I confirm that it was a minister who requested the report, including Because I thought it would take better to get into the stitches on certain factors. The report is very useful in this regard, it is developed and is used when preparing a service contract with RUS.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u23	Mr. President. It is sometimes difficult to grasp the position and policy of this government, and perhaps no wonder, as the government will have noted that this is a historical compromise between various categories of people discussing a very different policy in many matters. The government often seems to disagree, and thank you very much. Minister for clarifying the prerogatives of the government's stand on the National Court and its precedent, since it seemed that the government would still be contradicting itself. It is not the only issue, and it is most unlikely to recall declarations of action against money laundering. We went through an emergency payment on the law to make up for the problems there, under the prescript that it was to prevent us from landing on a grey list. We know how it turned out. Then it was announced that we would not be on that list for a short time, and then a government report released us on this list on the day that we were on this list for years of neglect, and then we stayed on that list, followed by the highest standard. Ministers to the fact that we were too optimistic about getting out of there quickly and safely. But that's not what I'd like to talk to the highest. Ministers, even if this lack of policy is a bit interesting. It's different. A financial committee has now made a suggestion of 8 million. K. a contribution to a state lawyer on interest of financial contributions due to the cost of the former national rights, which immediately raises the question of what it might be like - because the request that the district attorney be made at a national hearing on Friday, according to the news - to squeeze it into the budget, but at the same time, we do not see any evidence that the district attorney's plea is being met for a significant and predictable expansion gain in the following year for the United States and other matters. What's the difference in the case, chief? Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. This is not a mistake, there is a clear explanation for what money was needed because of the service that had been used for the National Court. That amount lay ahead, and it was only natural for her to enter the council. In terms of the district attorney, I've had a meeting with him, and it's been working on these budgets and how much more stress is needed, how long, etc. This needs to be clear, but there was no clear discussion about the budget bill. Regarding other misunderstandings as well as nature. A senator refers to me as being kind and obliged to correct what he calls a misunderstanding on my part or to have answered my own questions about the money-stealing order and the FAFF conclusions. I don't think Iceland is still living on this gray list, although they're only counting a few things. All three of the factors that follow are involved. While warning about excessive optimism, it is because we have seen that these need to be completed in an adequate way, i.e. I want you to run out of induction. It is not enough to buy the system, to form as when discussing the police system, we thought it was enough, since the whole FAFF case was rather blurred. I warn of excessive optimism because I know that this system cannot be ready until April, so there is no need to say anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u25	Mr. President. We may get to talk more later at the highest. Minister of Justice to represent us on this list. Now I'm kind of more concerned about the other. You see, I don't understand the difference between the two. A quick request was reasoned with the local district attorney's request for additional funding for several things, but the administrative body felt that it was a threat to carrying out the request. I don't see that it is starting to be handed over in the budgets, despite claims on the contrary, that this year's reserves or funding would be assured so that the district attorney would receive the necessary funds. In no way could it go through a vote at the council to give the office the money it called. I still can't understand it, it would have been the most basic methodology based on government financial laws. That is why I say again: " What is the conflict between the procedure that can be over 15 minutes of a federal attorney's request? That I can't better be seen than the fact that the district attorney is still unattainable with the request that the office has requested? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u26	A respectable president. It has been very clear that this request would be made if needed, and it is being done. The situation on that budget was just less clear. It was like a request that would normally be treated in the spring as a means of funding. Hv. The senator compares this with the cost of the National Court, but the cost is over, not something to come. That is what we have been taking advantage of now, and we know exactly what the amount is needed to meet that requirement. Of course, we can point out that we have a set of guidelines for adequate planning and funding in line with government policies in this area and that are to be treated with a snouting review and planning, such as 21 and 22. Their law. This is not a reason to make changes in the budget itself but to comply with it and meet the conditions we would like to set when checking what financial resources are needed. [[The president calls.]] I've had a good conversation with the district attorney, and he agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u27	V.E.G. President. I direct my words to the Minister of Justice and ask for government policies on drugs and the follow-up of that policy. The recent news has been about a dramatic increase in the import of drugs and in the market of the street because of this huge supply. It has been so much that prices have grown, making it possible for more people to buy the materials. It has not been observed that the need for reinvestment equipment is renewed so that a good conscience can say that governments are doing their best to protect against the import of illicit drugs. In this regard, the Central Party has repeatedly contributed extra money to customs, which has always been killed. The availability of drugs through the Internet has become easy for children and adolescents to get drugs more quickly by that route than for ordering pizza. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is the government's policy clear in this category, about the import of illegal drugs? And if so, does the minister feel that this course is being followed sufficiently? Second: Has there been a study of how to overcome the availability of drugs through the Internet and/or computers? And if so, how does that work feel?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. This is an important subject. Recently, the Ministerial Committee discussed these matters and how it worked to strengthen antidrug sales, as defined in the Constitutional Convention, strengthens the action on the import and production of drugs, and corrects the severe penalty for drug abuse. It's in the Constitution, so I think the government policy is pretty clear. With regard to the grand increase mentioned by the senator, I have had it checked out specifically, and there may be no specific increase in total drug use in Iceland. Rather, it is a change in the number of drugs that come into the country. This is a larger amount of some substances and a smaller amount of others. It's not a great difference between the last few years, but it's important to keep track of it. In my opinion, though, we achieve most of the success in terms of prevention and understanding of the problems we face. We need to understand that this is a health problem to a large extent so that we can get some results in this series of issues. It's obvious, and I don't feel like I'm saying anything about the ban policy that didn't work. It has simply not worked as it did in the last few years. Although we have a special plan of action, we find it difficult to rule out drugs for photographing from prisons. But I think we'll be more successful if we look at this from the government policy of the Government Treaty, i.e. reducing the punishment of consumers and viewing them as patients, thus achieving greater success in stopping the spread of drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u29	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for his answer, and I can totally agree with the Minister that this is a health problem. The minister only admitted that the ban may not be working. Then we're talking about another approach to these matters. It's a long talk. It takes a lot more than 30 minutes to discuss it. But I encourage the minister and the government to press on to these matters so that there is clear policy and success. Children and adolescents get bored with drugs, which often lead to increased drug consumption and have increased in number and are always getting lower age. There is a large correlation between high bioavailability and consumption. The demand for treatment centres is always increasing, and the government has to turn itself in. There must be a clear government policy on reducing bioavailability and increasing access to treatment stations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u30	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would just agree. I'm telling you, we've been raising money to the police on organized crime, to make up 80 million. K. contribution to budget 2019 to support activities against organized crime, with emphasis on anti-drug sale, import and production. Also, the social and equality minister has ordered a group of workers on improved social conditions for individuals who have completed the sentence in prison. Then I will introduce to you in the week of prisoner action plan, where we can see the intensity of addiction and the return rate in prison are often due to the addiction involved. Of course, it is our job to deal seriously with these matters, to look at them differently, to help those who need them, and, of course, to deal with what needs to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u31	A respectable president. 19th degree. Congress code says, with the permission of a president: It is illegal to refer to members of the committee or visitors who fall to a closed committee meeting, except by permission. After a meeting of the management and monitoring committee on December 6 of this year. dealt with what? paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson publicly on the subject of the meeting in order to see that there can be no more than a clear violation of a political law. It is not enough to quote a panel's words but to draw conclusions on the opinions of the words they felt about the treatment, without any comment on the case. As soon as I'm sorry that a member of the committee is breaking his confidence in the work of a government and surveillance committee, I'm going to bring this violation to the attention of the President's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u32	President has received this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u33	A respectable president. I hereby commend the National Committee's Committee's committee's committee's list of proposals for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 128/209. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the State Department and Ólafur Kr.. We have a Hjörleifsson from the Department of Transport and Division. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 128/209, conducted on 8 May 2019, the change in XIII. The addition of transport activity to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, to enter the Convention on Council Regulation and Council of 2017/352, conducted on February 15, 2017, to set up a framework for waterfront services and common financial transparency rules for rejection. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. The Conventional Treatments of the EEA and the Committee proposes that the proposal be adopted. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who was absent from the case, signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was away from the hearing. Under this heading, Sigríður Á. Andersen, chairman of the Committee, Trausti Trali Bryndís, Brísdótttir Haraldsdóttt, Logi Einar Einarsson, Haraldsdóttir Einar Einarsson, Roa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u34	A respectable president. If I get this straight, it's a way to clear out control plans. There are two other matters that cannot exactly relate to this. If I understand the reasons for this, would it not be reasonable that this case will follow the other two issues of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u35	A respectable president. I just have to admit that I'm not quite sure what to do. This is the case with a senator. At least this matter was settled. A foreign press committee with no comment. All the members of the committee agreed, and we saw no harm in settling the matter this time. I have to admit that. A senator will then have to explain more to me what it is exactly as he is referring to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u36	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA no. 172/2019, of the conversion of an Annex to the EEA Convention for consumer protection. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the State Department and the Ministry of Employment and Development. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee from June 14, 2019, for an Annex on consumer protection at the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and for entry into the contract of the Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 2017/2394 from December 12, 2017, on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws and the breakdown of Regulation No. 2006/2004. The proposal's presentation is considered, in view of that. The Foreign Affairs Committee, in line with Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and suggest that the Parliament's decision be accepted. That may be the case. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy will sign in advance. Hv. The members of Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson were absent at the hearing. State Department. Under this view, the magazine quoted here, Brítís Haraldsdóttir, Logi Einarsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Þorgerður K. Gundarsdotir, Sigmi Á. Andersen, and Smári Mccarthy, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u37	A respectable president. I came to know this matter a little differently, i.e. ... atwhat. A top-of-the-art educational committee that was being considered on two basics relating to the introduction of this Regulation. There I have come across material things that I'm deeply troubled about, actually not many others outside the Pirata, but they are about the blessed Internet, as perhaps it will be to understand. After I learned that matter, I noticed that this case was with the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I realized that it was actually being handled in order to rid the administrative notice of the cases that are for the release of a global and educational committee. At this point, I began to wonder, as has many times before, I think in discussions, whether a foreign committee could have taken a more material approach to the Regulation itself that is being discussed. And I ask because I come by myself to sit by the release of this case, even vote against it, because of the traditional EEA problems we face, that we get to know we're not doing anything too late. We don't seem to have any career to produce any specific indications or requests for a review to the joint EEA committee when things are getting on board here, like this case right now. That is what we are discussing during the second discussion, so it may be a little too quick to stir or stir. Some members of the committee, even in advance, changed their opinion on this subject. My question is simply, a respectable president, whether or not the Commission could do anything more physically in the matter of the Regulation, and then I wondered what depth it was made, and whether it was merely in the interest of obtaining special arrangements or in order to make an advance of some particular application that is not directly involved in Iceland's speciality but the content of the matter itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for his inquiry, which is very good, also in order to emphasize consultation with the Council in the treatment of this resolution. Protocol No. 2349 from 2017, a Foreign Affairs Commission was sent to agree with the Conventional Treatments of the EEA and may be requested for a material discussion on the Economic and Business Committee and the Commission's Commission to consult with members of the Parliament, who discussed the matter in a material way. I think that it is of good things, as it is heard of me, a foundation and a support is in the matter of each one. Senator. In the opinion of the Economic and Business Committee, specific viewpoints were developed to make it necessary to consider that intervention, the burdensome actions associated with unjust business practices on the Internet, were essentially burdensome and, in many cases, could have consequences beyond the proposed effect, and encouraged the economic and business committee to proceed carefully to the earth, and moderated by the induction of oppressive governmental authority such as these. Well, I'd say so, then. The management and monitoring committee also developed a point taken into account and took care to write to the aforementioned bill. As a result of this material treatment of the matter on the two panels, I believe that a foreign committee has really trusted that the comments made by the Scientific Committee were legitimate and beneficial, as well as that it would be used to communicate with the writing of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u39	A respectable president. Here is a synopsis proposal to lift a controlled warning against an EEA case that I noticed, as if I crossed into my counter-array at the head. 3.m. We're out of Suðvest. "In the General and Education Committee. Actually, there was another person who pointed it out to me, so I'll tell you very clearly. There are some material that I make strong comments about. Today, they do not have the basics of material discussions here and now but this particular matter, which still obliges us to bring in the subject permanently. It's the same story now and it's so often with the EEA that you don't notice what's really important in them until it's too late. We are in a second discussion on this proposal. The commission has been given to the members of the Committee, but the source products, which this concierge proposal obliges us to adopt, are still in the General Information and Education Committee. I understand, without knowing things at the Generals all the time, that they're going to lie there for years because Norway and Liechtenstein didn't bring this into their side anyway. There may be no reason for us to be first to implement this Regulation. I think it's time to remind you of a little discussion that happened here in the summer about the so-called third energy pack. There we reasoned a lot on the EEA case and their treatment. It was a case that had been given an enormous amount of material for years, which has been introduced in the European Union in 2009, ten years ago. You can understand that some people don't think that enough time is taken, I know it from many places, and that makes me feel very, very often here, even when it's an opportunity to study them over a longer period of time. But it remains that the process is, in fact, we are left with the only option to agree to a situation coming from the EEA, one of the chances of breaking down at the EEA Convention. Some mean that it means opposing a constitution or somehow cutting down our sovereignty rights and so forth, but in my opinion it is more complicated than that. This will always be a matter of, in fact, not what we're supposed to do, we can get out of the EEA partnership, and we can simply break the contract and take the consequences. However, we do not want to do so in general because there is too much at stake. The EEA contract is simply so excessively useful. Now I have the same problem as my colleagues in the Middle Ages in the summer that I am physically opposed to things I can't see at this moment more than that we are forced to record. It is that in the implementation of the regulations proposed here to lift control policy warnings, there will be quite a number of cases in a number of institutions authorized to call for legal action on the Internet. The Regulation contains Article 4. Count 9. find a list of three joints of objects that must be available for use by a competent person, e.g. that you can unschedul a domain for a person who violates the Regulation and cannot be reached and nothing can be done. All right. I think it's an emergency, and I'm glad to know that it's also the understanding of those I'm talking to on committees and others that it's a relief. I don't like it, but I understand it, and I don't think it's dangerous, I don't think it's going directly against how the Internet works as a technical phenomenon. It also accounts for the ii team of 4 mg. Count 9. to dissociate host to take out substances that violate the laws on consumer protection or regulations. Again, it is also a warning that situations are not possible to reach the person or respond in some other way. It's an emergency. It's good. But then, in the Regulation, these three teams will be in section 4. mg. 9. g., a sentence that states to these members, a legal party - I'm going to look it up for a moment what this name is, so I'm sure to handle the right thing - the legal authorities who would enforce it can give it power to third party. The point is that the third party is these intermediate groups, i.e. Network companies, the network companies that provide the connection. The intermediate: If we took an illustration of the road system and car, say bank robbers who use cars to rob money in the bank and take them to their homes, the middle is the road even the road itself could be said. When the case is gone, I don't just hate it or this way anyway, I don't think it's a problem anymore. I'm against her, I don't like her because I admit that she's incompatible with the basic thoughts behind how the Internet works. Now I have to keep this in mind, though, that this is not the case as broad and frankly out - of - date and has been proposed and introduced in connection with authorually over the years. They have been characterized by much more nervousness and much earlier legal action, with a much weaker foundation, even to defend weaker interests and, however, with greater consequences than in this case. You can see in the bill on this matter that it is viewed as a total problem, and it actually happened. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.....that at least a music firm didn't recognize that there had been a case that would make it an option, not in terms of her past. It can be assumed that this will occur rarely and in very limited cases. On the other hand, in the extraction or way we've decided to go here, which I fear we're required to leave, this warrant is to be found in a set-up by a lot of institutions, and I'm sorry. In one review, it was suggested that instead of it, only one agency would call for these lawyers, but I guess it's complicated for reasons I'm not going to explain here. To list where this law order of communications companies, i.e. The intermediate is found in a bill on deck. 374 in case of No. 330 at this council. The warrant is found in what I call the "B" team. It's a b-joint that happens a bit often. It's "B" team 8. y., b-joint d-joins 10. y., b-joint d-joints 13. y., b-joint c-joints 15. y., b-joint d- team 17. y., b-joint d- team 18. y., b-along 23. and last but not least b-joint b-joint, 25. gr. A respectable president. I think it's a little too much, just too often, a little too much of institutions that are being given this warrant in my opinion. It's a consumer shop, for example, including the National Institute of Medicine that receives this warrant, the FDA, the media agency is given this warrant, and I don't quite understand why the press committee should have that authority. I do not understand under what circumstances a media committee would start calling for legal action to protect the overall interest of consumers on the Internet, the advertisement thereof. It says itself, I think, at least, if we don't have to give these legal orders, we shouldn't give them. If we don't have to pass these legal orders, I think it works out over what is called a moderate demeaning. There are some sources that no one can explain why it should be used, and no one knows of examples that had had to be used but are also extremely effective and can be abused if the system is not working properly. As we've crossed from time to time, me and what. 5th a.m. Smoke. The system sometimes doesn't work too well. In a paper with the bill that introduces or implements the regulations presented here for the loss of a administrative notice, the technical benefits that could be used are directly considered. That's really what should scare people. I must read from that report, by permission of the president: The situation is particularly realistic when a seller hides his head or ignores the decision of the Navigator's Office, determines the consumer appeal committee, or judges. I found this to be an interesting wording, especially realistic. It so happens that this is what is in a report called a domain vow filter or in English and in a language that my colleagues from the computer nerd business recognize, a ◯DNSIS blocking, and an IP-number filter, in English ◯IP omesslancelslance-doc. These are the methods that have been used and suggested in the battle of capital violations over the years, and I have held more than one and more in charge of the other and this occasion. This discussion repeatedly raises the question of how practical it is to use these methods. Therefore, I find it interesting that there is already an immediate leap into the discussion of calling it a particularly practical option, not necessarily a particularly suitable or particularly legitimate option or particularly legitimate. No. Especially realistic, as if there is a question about whether it is practical or not. I think it meets the nail a little on its head, a respectable president, because there are tools on whether it's practical or not. The point is, it is not particularly realistic to apply that method. Not everyone may be just like me with a VPN subscription where one key or one command in my case could be connected to more or less any country. But it's no big deal to do that. The other day, I just wanted to see the world out of South Korea, and I just connected through South Korea, can do it right here and now. - It can never be done. It doesn't work. - Yes, I'm in South Korea. I'm on the Internet now in South Korea. Well, that wasn't the focus. No, this isn't a realistic, respectable president. These methods of keeping middlemans from getting into what they want will never work, never work. And hopefully not because as soon as such methods begin to work, we have the authority to provide information exchange so that all of us should fear them, no matter who they are. Even in democracies, as we know about, there can be a source of filth ready to misuse its power. I'm not talking about the west of the ocean, I'm talking about Germany in 1932 and 1933. That can happen, a respectable president. If so, we may well not have handed over and make it a habit to turn over to the authorities to control our lives too much. That's why we need privacy. That's why we need freedom of expression. That's why we need democratic safety valves, support and counterweights and the baselines Pirantars are always calling and arguing. I couldn't afford to bring this up, a respectable president, because there's nothing realistic about it, and fortunately it doesn't work. This has been a problem with the fact that there are quite a number of agencies being granted this ban. It is by nature wicked, no matter how necessary it might be. Yet, I have to put this one in advance that I feel it is most unlikely that this remedy will be used for the first time, at least not for the indiscriminate, of the rabbles, and the rockless closes here and there, and to the blue, and all over. You are more concerned that such a tragedy occurs when it comes to capital violations because they are so much more frequent and that there is a much greater demand for fossils without payment than after certain financial gains, such as small loans or something like that. But basically, the method that is suggested is the same as it is for the same reason basically wrong. I miss it, too, at least I can't find it in the Regulation yet, I'm going to kick its butt, and I can't find it in the bill how they're going to keep the law under control. It's a bit of an important point. Suppose, for example, there is a situation where a small loan company that costs 800 million interest or something is hard to get its web somewhere in a country that is hard to close, I'm not going to mention any country, but it's a lot of countries that are hard to find sites to close. The owner is nowhere to be found, but he offers small loans and accepts Icelandic credit cards and is getting Icelandic consumers into trouble. So, what do we do? Maybe we'd use the law, i.e. They insist that the phone and Vodafone and the phone call and the phone company and that sort of company would shut this site down. For example, suppose it's just perfectly legitimate, giving us what is in English called the best form of expression, i.e. At best. Let's take a look at it this way. However, I feel that there is a need for somewhere centrally to which sites have been shut down and what needs to be done for it to be opened again. Whether to use a domain term filter, i.e. A DNSISISing or an IP-number filter remains after both DNS names and IP numbers can be reused, especially IP-talan because they have become severely deficient, there is a technical debate that I may not go into here and now. But it's common for IP numbers to be recycled for new parties. It is important, then, that there is not some old ban on the part of a whole other person, who has long become unnecessary and has even complicated, but the technical barrier is still there. There has to be an overview of this, and I can't find it in the prime projections that are being discussed at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I haven't read this Regulation yet, I will, but I don't expect it to be there. This is one of the things that often seem to be a little ignored during the discussion, since they seem to have nothing to do with it. But this is also one of the things that have nothing to do with anything until they are out of control, the likes of pollution in that way. If we were to just trash a little, it wouldn't be too much of a scene. If we were just to dump a little bit of CO 2 into the atmosphere, that would be okay. But it is not all right to throw a lot of garbage and dump a bunch of CO 2 and it is not all right to react only when the problem has become big that it cannot be blown off. You are mainly concerned about such sources when they are supposed to prevent people from doing something online that is extremely demanding, especially if they seek fossilized material without charge, that is, perhaps the most noisy part of the discussion, but there are other things people have shown interest in and politicians are interested in filtering out in the same way, now the last pornography. In 2013, the preposterous approach was made that there would be a certain legitimate accident a few years later in another context, not about filtration, but because pornography is still banned in Iceland for some reason that, in fact, I find ridiculous. Then you will have to ask yourself the last question I'm going to leave in this talk, a respectable president: If this is okay, why not use the same method to prevent people from having access to something else that we don't want them to have access to? If we say it should be stopped too, we've come to the high level of ice, very close to ice. In fact, if something happens, he's beginning to break away from us. I think it's a high-end ice cream, not because this rule alone or this bills alone will have negative consequences on the Internet and then it's followed by public rights, but because if we think it's all right, we have to be able to separate it and explain why it doesn't feel right in other cases, such as pornography, gambling, author-proof material, distributed without permission or something else that people want to get rid of the Internet, hate propaganda, whatever. These are the problems we face all the time. This is why, more honorable President, this method is always wrong to me. [[The president calls.]] We're not supposed to go that way. We're supposed to use another way that works. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad, though, to say in the end, that it doesn't look like there's going to be a need to use some resources according to what I've heard on the committee so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u40	A respectable president. I'm here considering the exciting contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for hunting in the jurisdiction of the countries. It's been a year's anniversary that we're going to be talking about him around Christmas, but this time we actually have a two-year contract, before the year that is about to pass, and then in 2020. A respectable president. I'm just gonna let me read the committee opinion. It's pretty short and it's like: The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Agent Þórir Ibsen from the Department of State and Director Jóhann Guðmundsson from the Ministry of Business and Development. The motion involves the search of the Allied warrants for a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for fishing in Iceland and on June 17, and June 3, 2019, which was replaced by paper exchanges in Reykjavík and Thors Harbor. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in each other's legal history between 2019 and 2020. He assumes a mutual warrant for each of the parties to hunt the carbons and the Norwegian-islen fjords within the rest of the jurisdiction between 2019 and 2020. According to the Convention, Icelandic ships are free to fish on as many as 1,300 macroil trains within the ever - increasing legal history of 2019 and 2020. The contract went into force temporarily on June 3, 2019, and will have its final value when it has been announced that the administrative conditions of each country have been met. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson were away on bail. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Logi Einarsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brjolffjordsdótttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u41	The President was at the Mass. Hv. A senator discussed the 6th part of the program, not the 5th session as presented, but that was, of course, a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for fishing in Icelandic and sophisticated jurisdictions between 2019 and 2020, a proposal, 438. 602, commission on deck. 649. That was a second discussion. A senator made this clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u42	V.E.G. President. Here is a motion made by the chairman of the budget board and the head of the Economic and Business Committee, which is proposed as temporary provisions for ensuring the tax and inadequacy of the December's extra pay for micro-and-replacement pensioners, 10,000 bucks. in addition to those entitled to a December, 2019. This proposal is referred to as a proposal for a greater percentage of the budgets in the bill for financial support. The motion's saying so, chief. President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. After 1 5 C.E. A new article, as follows: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners entitled to be supplemented in 2019, such as 2 mg. 2.g. The 2019th, No. 1199/2018, in addition to it, should be entitled to a single payment of 10,000 dollars. This payment should not be considered as a earning employee, nor should it result in a loss of other payments. The execution of this law is being carried out by the government's insurance agency. 2. After 1st mg. 41 st. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: Despite 1st. Retribution 16. ritonavir/ritonavir. This proposal requires approval for 10,000 bucks. There's a proposal for an additional bill for a budget to be paid taxlessly and inaccessible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start off with the positive notes and say good-bye. Chairman of the budget board and what. The head of the Economic and Business Committee for making these adjustments. Although this particular group seldom has enough work to do, this exchange is taking positive steps. In view of the fact that this is some form of training, it is also helpful to make clear that it causes some sort of cycle - elation that is, unfortunately, the sad situation of the pension system we live in today. This is a good step, although there is no doubt that it could have been bigger. Yet, well - being commended should be done. I wanted to discuss two aspects of this matter in another way. For one thing, it seems to me that prices for a few dollars in various government stocks have become rather boring for financial work and tax collections on the land. I've mentioned it before. We can say that this is the result of the symptoms of an inflation society that we have blessed with a measure of looking back years. In recent years, we have experienced extraordinary prices. Throughout 2014, inflation has been assumed to have been at or at an inflation target. I think it's time to say goodbye to the pain that there's always a need to be updated on the basis of the price of every centenarian bill in the various taxes and fees. This may be the least of the reasons why we are always dealing with the fundamental requirement that currency of various kinds is simply a payment for services rendered. In some places, as is true of alcohol and tobacco, there is pure tax, or taxes, mentioned there. We will never take a basic discussion to decide on these charges, whether the currency reflects costs or not. However, the basic requirement for services to be paid is not only to meet the cost and once decided, we must subtly update them on the basis of prices. I thought that it was a bit Colombian thing to do in this discussion that men were getting puffed up because the government was only raising the pay by 2.5%, not 2.8%, or whatever it is that the inflation will be measured between the annual averages at the end of the day, that the government really considered it to be worth it. It would have been far more ambitious to simply cancel the prices of these charges. If we are going to be a community that believes in prices and attaches some merit status to the throne, the State's authority should go ahead with good example and simply stop these prices, further laying the basis for some assessment at various cost. It doesn't always have to be reimbursed, and it would actually set up a requirement, can we say, in the state also, that we simply dropped this and chose instead the government or the executive authority to make a budget unless the income of the private currency fails. Certainly, it would be a pleasure to see a government dare take that step to underscore the importance of having real confidence in the value of humanness to the contrary. There is not much else to add to this particular matter. Yet, there is one thing that I feel is important to us. Once again, the plans for the implementation of overall waste, the use of waste, the use of waste, have been delayed, or cut off for now. It is an example of how all too often things are being done here. They come in poorly or poorly prepared and late for the council. I'll give you a very nice case, which is a confirmation of our fishery contract with the Faeroe Islands. Sadly, I failed to keep track of the discussion about it earlier. The treaty was made for summer, but it seems that it can never be brought up before the council until just before the New Year's Eve. I've always felt incomprehensible why they're always so late. In the fall of the year, plans for the price were introduced but blessed were rapidly and definitely identified by the Economic and Business Committee that the case was actually completely unacceptable from the ground because there had not been any preparation. There had been nothing discussed with the local community responsible for the implementation of this fee and how to take measures to reduce the price - related price. If their plans were to be followed as suggested, this would have been for a mere government fund without any fees at the 2020 convention. It is not possible to prepare in such an important way. It is clear that when it comes to the watch, we have not been able to succeed. We became far more garbage, especially in the capital area, but we have made a commitment. We are far behind the induction of our commitments to reduce the severity of the watch, and little has been done in recent years to correct that. The first goal of life that we set out is the plans that were presented for the price of the price, but it turned out that there had been no preparation in the day. There had not been a discussion with the village and not with the rural communities here in the capital area, which should have been the most significant choice. No arrangements were made for the actual price to work. Fortunately, it was decided to delay. Of course, this is not an acceptable practice because, of course, the most important part of the matter remains that we are not planning to reduce our price to the next year. I really hope that the government and the Ministry involved in and responsible for this category, on the other hand, the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Remuneration, will use time well at the first part of the next year to prepare and implement a well-developed system for deposit and, at the same time, with the necessary consultations and cooperations with rural society and village to ensure that it is possible to implement a procedure and measures that companies and households have the option to reduce the amount of waste to be made here each year. This is unacceptable. When we're involved in this category, I'm very sorry to look behind another year without action on that subject. In itself, there is no need to have any further comment, but hopefully next year, we'll see recommendations not to be in these quarterly updates, as I mentioned. Most important, in order to reiterate it once again, I am very happy to see this arrangement for monopolitans during the year 2019 of 10,000 years. It is a joy to see that this is a good response, although the amount of payment could have been even higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u44	Mr. President. We're in the 3rd. about bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of budgets for 2020. In my talk at 2nd. I put a few of the people I think they're important to me. I'm just gonna go back where I left off, and I didn't get it over with. I'd like to start by celebrating, like the one who was standing before me in the chair of speech, boy. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, an adjustment in the process of paying microchip in December. It is of great importance and satisfaction that the government had listened to these voices. I'd also like to bring in what was mentioned here, i.e. The initiative shown by the State Fund or the government in each budget and in changing the various laws because of budgets, is taken by surprise by raising public expenses. This results in increasing the index price of consumers, raising the loans of citizens, and increasing inflation. But now the government has specifically stated that it is not raising it to the level of inflation and has been boasting about it, as mentioned here, but I believe that it is urgent to consider seriously whether it must always be a regular factor for every year that there are a number of budgets raised. It would be more likely to take a financial advantage course, such as we were at the Central Committee and to make adjustments to the budget for a special budgeting requirement of 1.1 billion per Ministry. The state body has been blown out in the history of this government and is not reduced in these areas and the need for public management. If this were to be done, it would not be necessary for the government to go in front of them by raising a number of fees, as I mentioned, and higher inflation. Of course, this bill contains an important basis for the budget, and that is the purpose of it. On the other hand, it would blow a little off to my court to agree first with the budget and then leave two weeks later or then to agree to the terms of the budget. You would have thought that the criteria should be approved first, and the results of that work would be expressed in financial terms. In other words, this is an unfortunate arrangement, to accept first the budget, and afterwards. Consider, for example, if there were to be a change in the alliance that would conflict with the approved budget, a situation that no one would like to be in has come up with and is subject to thought. I mentioned that I was delighted that it was due to provide microengineering in the process of changing the bill, but I wondered if it was technically the right thing to do in this bill, if it shouldn't have been in the budget. On page 18. 8 I noticed a point that may be appropriate to mention in this relationship, in terms of stress and collecting. It says: According to this chapter, overseers handle stress. The taxes laid in accordance with this section form a strain for a valuable tax. According to this chapter, a government tax manager will care for the collection. Now to unite this office, there may be the same person who is supposed to hang up and collect, which may be thought - provoking. [[The point is, it's in the second bill.]] - Second bill, what? Senator, you're right. What I also wanted to come into this relationship was that of the 2nd. a speaker discussed the price tax that the government planned for and then had to withdraw because the case was very poorly prepared. That's a fact that faces everyone. This tax will be laid on if this government has the authority to do so and the tax of sentencing, when it is fully operational, will cost every home about $12,000. every year. Then we come to what has been pointed out, and we in the Central Party have rightly pointed out that the government boasts that paying taxes is paying off. I now state that we in the Central Party are, of course, in terms of taxes, not the methodology we had in this case. We're paying taxes, but in turn, we're raising a lot of fees. As a result, the reduction in taxes is reduced, the reduction in income taxes. I have requested within the Committee to make a memo about the actual reduction in net taxes that the public suffers from this taxation change. I haven't got that information yet, but I'm pretty afraid it's much smaller than the government wants to let the weather rise, exactly because there are many remunerations being raised in return. For example, the carbon pay is being raised, which increases the price of gasoline and diesel oil on the car, and the car costs are being raised, as well as other costs related to the homes. That'll reduce the taxation rate. It's a methodology I don't like, Mr. President. The general public should know exactly what the net taxation rate is when considering the return rate as shown in this bill and becoming during the year. As we have seen, it is also sobering to consider that it is possible to go in front of a new tax, such as sentencing tax, with such shame and so ill - mannered that the government is reinvented by its plans. Regarding the price tax, companies such as waste, as well as rural communities, have found that the purpose of this tax is not a protection or an increase in recycling and recycling, and the purpose does not appear to be to be to reduce waste, as becoming tax is an inadequate control tool. They place it in the village to see that the rate of growth in the population in their territory is estimated to be up to 800 million. K. Each year, they evaluate that this cost cannot be associated with what every resident does. Rather, it must be collected as an additional fee for each individual. It is similar in terms of employment, and some 1.6 billion dollars will have to be paid. and to some extent, that tax will be paid from the population's pocket. There is a reasonable way to reach those goals. It has been suggested that the target could be reduced, e.g. by posting a return payment on groups of product that we do not want to go to. I mention plastic, for example. Remember, 1 kilo of waste that goes to the ground is no better, even if it has a tax on it. It's important to keep that in mind. I also visited the elderly's management fund earlier during the discussion. It says that the provisional right to pay the expenses of a nursing facility from the elderly is extended. It was never the fund's job to care for business, and we know well that the fund has not been successful in financing the needs of nursing and living facilities for which it is intended and that its contributions are much lower than the ever - increasing need for such facilities. In other words, this document is being extended once more, and it needs to be developed to ensure that the fund is in the role it was assigned and the name of the fund indicates, it is a fund of construction. This is vital, and the need is urgent. Sadly, the budget has not been new to meet a particular challenge in these areas. A financial committee agreed last year about that. 300 million. K. budgets to deal with nursing problems have not been used, but this money has not yet been worked out because communities in the welfare services of nursing homes have not been cooperated. There is a matter to be handled and that Iceland's health insurance will deal with the so - called nursing weight or raise the weight of the nursing plants in order to run this important order as it should. You might say, Mr. President, it's a bad thing to continue reducing the financial plans of the fund by providing funds for the business management rather than focusing on the investments it is supposed to perform under law. I believe this is an example of not being watched by the bigger picture and being set up a fund that is then used in ways that are not originally intended. That's bad, because it treats them as a whole, such as. The business. There is little use in new nursing homes, new homes, and good housing, if there is no money to accomplish such work. That's what's important. This extends beyond the health system, fluffs e.g. the design problem, as well as the flow problem at the Land Hospital. It's very important to solve the flow problem. I've emphasized it here. There are older people who use medical care at the Land Hospital who do not really need it but who are waiting to get to a new home where nursing is available, but there is no room. This group of subjects is involved in this important aspect of solving the flow problem of the Land Hospital so that the medical facilities there can be used and used for those who need it. That's what I said, Mr. President. Time's up. There's a lot to consider about this bill. [[The president calls.]] Then I would specifically mention that the State must always take the lead in raising expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-09-41.u45	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I think it's my duty to account for the changes I've proposed. 660 for the 2 mg tablet a-arms 36. g. The bill. In fact, this is only technical correction because of a change in customs file required for years to come, but it is worth pointing out that it is also included in one new toll number. But in the second place, this is a completely technical adjustment proposal.
