ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u1	At a council meeting on August 29th. Delegates from all members of the council to the session were reported on a collective review of legal legislation, No. 71/1997, as agreed on by Congress 41/149. Karl Gauti Hjaltason was appointed to the Committee for the Central Party. This is an announcement that in his place, Anna Kolb Kolbrún Árnadóttir will join the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u2	Borist has received a letter from the following wanted-to-end advisers in order to provide written answers to queries: From the social and child-reversary for the request of a candidate. 226, on the Department's outings, from the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson; from the ocean-surrogative and agricultural minister for the management of the inquiries. 258, on the increased export of unfed fish, from Sigurður Páll Jónsson; and finally, from secretary of transportation and rural management for the inquiry on deck. 234, National registration, Margrét Tryggvadóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u3	The president wants to mention a little bit from today's program, so the 5th weekly program, the School of Students, will be preceded by the fourth subject on addictive and drug abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u4	Mr. President. This morning a 26 - year - old Albanian woman, nearly nine months pregnant, was sent out of the country with her two - year - old child and her husband. Although midwives and doctors of the Land Hospital opposed tonight's flight, she was sent out of the country. While the woman was in the hospital, the police were waiting for a flashing light at the hospital. According to the surgeon's response to the moment, it is seriously seen that when a woman was left the country for the night, the woman was at high risk and in a very delicate position, the counsel of the Land Hospital was not taken. It is a dangerous walk when women in the delicate position of the trustees wear a child and, therefore, it is risky for them to travel, according to the mother's mother's guardian during a conversation with the State Radio. Mr. President. You don't believe that this is what you're doing, but it is. It has to be changed. Such challenges must not be repeated. They're a disgrace. The responsibility is at the highest. Minister of Justice, the highest. Government and what. Congress members of the left green, forward party and the Independence Party. It doesn't mean much to speak nicely and say that you want to follow a humanitarian course against refugees and trustrs and then let such practices continue. If so, there is little progress on the government and members of the administrations. I'm offended. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u5	Mr. President. A 26-year-old woman in her 36th week of pregnancy was dismissed in her morning wound from Iceland. The woman, here in search of protection, along with a mate and a two - year - old son, is in a dangerous pregnancy and in a particularly delicate position, both physically and socially. In her stay here, she had neither met an obstetrician nor a midwife until late last night, when she sought the attention of the professionals at the Land Hospital after an unexpected arrival by police at the home of the family. The woman had her first time in the Mother's Protection Agency here tomorrow. The family trusted that disfellowshipping would be waited until their case was resolved. The family was also confident that the American government would not risk the lives of the woman and her unborn child during her final week of pregnancy by letting her fly a long route from Iceland to home, possibly with internationals that greatly increase the risk. But that was where the family was wrong. The Icelandic government decided to ignore the doctor's firm advice and midwife at a Land Hospital ▪ A university hospital that the wife should not be sent on flight. The Icelandic government also ignored the professional opinions of experts who felt that it could not be sent on a plane. The representatives of the Icelandic government brought up earlier proof of proof written by the U.S. National Institute for Foreign Affairs, based on a physical examination that took place in the middle of October. or more than three weeks ago. That certificate, with the permission of the president, stood: 'She's got to fly, or fit to fly.' The ability of the Icelandic government to put the life of the woman and her unborn child at risk. This, Mr. President, is what Ministers in the government of the Left Green, Independence Party and Front Class call a humane policy in the affairs of refugees. Mr. President. This is completely unannounced and inhuman, and I condemn this practice by the National Institute of Iceland, the U.S. Marshal's International Department of Police, a doctor at the reception center of the U.S. National Institute of Iceland and the entire government, who makes such a happen on his watch. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u6	A respectable president. The recovery of households in five coastal areas, which depend on seawater, is at risk. The results of the echo - based analysis of the Árni Frird's Friðriksson on the size of the hairy population are disappointing and suggest that no hairy fishing can be allowed at the beginning of the next year. Taking into account what happened earlier in the year, this conclusion means an estimated 253/430 billion loss in export work. An in-house policy is based on leaving 150,000 tons of spawn, which is considered to be 95% probability. In fact, it was found at Greenland, but it was in too small and too young, so hairy fishing is not expected until, at first, 2021. This conclusion is most disappointing for all of us, especially for companies and largely productive settlements. The loss of five members of the team due to hairy dysfunction this year is estimated to be approximately 500 million and reduce national production by 0.6%. It is estimated that there are nearly 300 Western homes. These are the big problems this nation faces, the loss of income, and I worry about it. It's not that there's bad news, though, because this morning it's news that a new airline is starting a planned flight from Iceland. I just have to tell you as a Southnesian, I'm looking forward to six new planes entering the Navy, and I really hope there's a flying start.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u7	Mr. President. One of the companies that were taken by politicians a few years ago was Iceland's Landsbanki Corp. It was a very good time for Latin to take a wide range of businesses, as it were, from politics, then the Lands Bank Corp. His work has been organized in various ways. You can even say that. read a report by the National Review Board reviews that covered the National Bank's sale of property owned by the state's funds and went very badly. From 2013 onward, the National Bank had a great interest in building new headquarters on Iceland's most expensive property. In fact, there was a delay after something upset, which even took place. Right here in this room. But now there's nothing wrong with humans and they've dug a hell of a hole, excuse me, Mr. President, at the docks, the most expensive property in Iceland, and they want to build bases that are good at growing and costing around 8 billion dollars. This is a natural pure ignorance, Mr. President, and it must come from this point of view to a minister of finance, a executive of this stock, that the port can be sold in the current condition and instead of to be constructed elsewhere. I would like to suggest a Breinholti for the new U.S. Bank headquarters. It is a good neighborhood, a large one, and it is comfortable for all transportation and beauty to be there. In short, let's sell the hole on the dock, move the bank to the Breiðholna.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u8	The president is very grateful that the Breinhol is well spoken of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u9	V.E.G. President. It is a remarkable step to reach 100 years of age. In 1926, Charles Reykjavíkur, the first radio station H.f., was founded by regular broadcasts, and Ingvar Gíslason, former member of the Convention and Ministers, was born that same year. The first sea dress was founded in the Southern Valley to produce clothes for sailors, including cold and windy tickets. That business is now named 66° north. Year after year, the National Guard has asked the organization that is most stable to the nation. The project of this world is going to be quite large in the air, air, and uterus, and will only increase in the future by increasing traffic in the Northern Hemisphere. During times of trial, we look to the sheep and should be proud of the work that is being done there. In 2026 the National Guard will celebrate the 100th anniversary. To strengthen ourselves, we are to use a milestone. Quality ships are important rescue and pollution devices. The campship was built in 1968, and it truly has arrived. The construction of the Guardship Thor began in 2007 and was handed over to 2011, which is the flagship of the Landguard and has proved its value. So I want to bring it up here at this critical point: In 2026, we take a new watchship and contribute to our natural renewal and expand our role as a nation in caring for seafaring security, resource care, fishing, law enforcement, search, and rescue. A new patrol in 2026
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u10	A respectable president. It is remarkable, but at the same time sad, how communities sometimes gossip about scientific harmony and even facts. This is especially true when science conflicts with religious teachings that people love, political teachings that they love, or economic teachings that people love. But a respectable president, there's nothing to argue with the wind. The reality is what it is. No matter what our best interests are, no matter how much we want our community, and no matter what we believe, there is a global catastrophe that we see as a result of man - made climate change. The question is, What are we going to do about it? These days are popular with calling out for ways other than commandments and bans, and even when they are very complaining about the available ones. A popular cause is, of course, being against rules and regulations, a popular rule of commands and bans, if not directly harmful, in general. A great deal of overfaith has been observed in Iceland throughout history in the opinion of what's being said here. Unfortunately, we'll need a bunch of both, I suppose, to deal with this problem. Then we will have to put our priorities to the proper use and be willing to sacrifice, for otherwise we will have no success. This won't be the first free meal in the world, so I'm sure. But there are other things that need to be done that I hope to become popular, and that is to support the industry, the products, and the sciences that help us cope with climate change. Science and high - tech technology have always created both solutions and problems for us as a species in general. After all, it was science and our amazing success that got us into this trouble at first. Now is the time for us to recognize the solution and come from the same direction. It's science and technology. It is by also using the technology we have, the knowledge, the industry, and the scientific community to combat that disaster, not just to see it as part of the problem, but to the contrary, we look to it for solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u11	Mr. President. Every year I come into life, and I wish I could say professional life, a group of young people with limited skills. They come with full joy from training in career courses, where many of them are doing wonderful work, and they have taken training to prepare them. They know what they can do and what they can't, all this in order to run right into a wall that doesn't give in. Just a year ago, at the conference Hall, there was a discussion of what governments can do to meet the expectations of this group and meet the needs of society, ensure that resources and employment tools for this group are available. V.E.G. The minister of social affairs was here in that discussion and asked the questions: What would a minister do to promote an enterprise and government agency? Will a minister make the first plans for this group and see how costly it is for the community not to react? The number of people who participated in the discussion agreed on two things - motivation is needed, and action is needed rather than word. As a result, over the same month, a task force by the Ministry of Education was formed to work out proposals. They were to react quickly. The group returned their suggestions early in spring, and since then nothing has been asked. I wondered whether despite all the beautiful words in the discussion that has taken place here, despite the fact that we know how costly it is for society in addition to the pain it brings to the individuals involved, whether this is yet another example of words rather than actions. I hereby declare the proposals of this committee, and I am declaring to you the confirmation of the minister of education and social Affairs that they are going to include measures. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u12	Mr. President. Backup airports and Reykjavík Airfield. I'd like to point out again and again the importance of being on the ground at all times when needed. We've been through reports at Keflavour Airport calling for planes to be looking for backup flights to land. One such incident occurred more than a week or October 28th. When the Boeing 757 Illelandian plane arrived, it crashed at the Cheflavor airport when the runway was shut off before landing, but it was started. The plane did not have enough fuel to use the Akureyri reserve, but it could have landed in Reykjavík if it had been an experienced pilot in the tower to assess and guide the situation. However, Istavia did not, however, decide to save and not save the tower in Reykjavík with the bus driver at the time the machines are entering the United States in the morning. It is very important to make sure that an experienced flight driver is in the air tower at Reykjavík's airport from the clock. 5 in the morning to face unexpected situations like these that may arise with shame. These events have often occurred and will continue to occur. We need to be able to act quickly. Flight security must be in place. The Boing Bridge case of October 28 is considered at the National Transportation Committee. It's time to face the fact that we need powerful reserves in Iceland to keep flight passengers safe. I propose that the secretary of transportation ensures that from the end of the hours. In the morning, there will be a bus driver in the tower at Reykjavík, airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u13	A respectable president. The weekend's media reported that there were more than 300 operations required in a land hospital during the last 12 months. This is not surprising if the land's most specialized emergency hospital and emergency measures are arranged. That's how an emergency hospital works. These delays mean that individuals who have already waited for up to ten months, which is the average residence time, need to wait longer for discomfort, poor quality of life, and even suffering. We can do better in these matters, and we must seek all ways. We have public health institutions near the capital city that have the means to assist, but they have not been new. Although few survivors have been allowed to survive in operations after the last few years of surgery, there is an excellent experience with special projects in these institutions. Yet, there is one of these clinics, where there is strong specific activity in the field of surgery, in women's operations, and in the field of replacement operations, and in other highly specialized, careful measures. In response to my inquiry for several years, it was observed to the minister that, in terms of costs, one institution will cut himself off in terms of replacement operations, the costs of each hip and knee surgery. It is Aranesp. The cost was about 35% higher at the International Hospital than at Aranesp, and about 31% higher in the Akureyri Hospital than in the Acquila. All predictions point to the fact that we still do not have time to live in the matter of waiting lists. The people are gaining weight, stress, and musculoskeletal problems. Money needs to be added, and the organization also needs to be improved, strengthened, and integrated. So I urge a minister and, in fact, challenge her to take advantage of the cost analysis that has already been carried out regarding replacement operations. There is a reasonable, practical, and professionally powerful option that at the same time ensures the good use of infrastructure on a joint property. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u14	A respectable president. Often, home-rolling has caused big trouble and has given rise to debates when farmers are doing homework, making meat for their families and their relatives, that if they go something a little beyond it, they often find their way to the police table. Now, when a government company or a government agency is going to assist farmers or increase social value, increase the variety of products, increase competition with perhaps the products and options, make the trade more powerful, strengthen the career of farmers, the police are also involved. This isn't working. We need to increase the freedom of farmers to action because they have shown their importance in valuable things and the importance of how they have coped with land healing and the climate problems. In other words, they have received tourists and have made sure that tourism can build up. They have a new right to their land to produce valuable things and good things for us, quality of life. We need to keep doing this, not sending those who show some color in trying to increase the value of the land, the choice of goods, the interests of consumers, and their choices, in judgment. But all freedom comes with responsibility. Of course, homework and innovation need to follow some minimum rules and other such. I trust the Department of Business, which has begun to reduce the ban, to do so in this matter and to ensure the freedom of farmers to act.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u15	A respectable president. Yesterday, a work report on the subject of education was presented to the future. In this report, there are some things that are interesting to find, and many things that need to be considered. In middle school, increased emphasis on reading, mathematics, creative articles, and science, reduced elementary school by one year and many more, at university, to revise funding models, to take up the number of criteria to the north, to unite university, and to adopt a norse learning system. High school, high school, and secondary education are also proposed. I can agree with the aims of the report that there are many improvements in education, and these suggestions should be taken seriously and with an open mind. However, there are factors in the report that should pause and ask professional life whom it considers to be the purpose of the education system. Here I am referring, not to major changes, such as shortening the elementary school or the number limit of colleges, but, by permission of the president, the gap between what the Icelandic education system produces and what it needs is growing. This suggests that study needs to be studied and how individuals choose to study. In this context, the academic freedom must be directed, which is defined as the freedom of university students, university students, and university students themselves to seek knowledge, no matter where they look, without abnormal interference. You see, education is not for the sake of professional life. Education is much more important and more important. Education is the foundation of today's community, not because of the professional potential of education, but because of the high scientific value of it. Professional life may be a product of education, but it should not be controlled by the needs of the workplace. It undermines academic freedom, which is a major reason why modern society is no longer involved in the wishful decision of a tyrant. Rather, it is based on a democratic foundation and values. Let's be academic freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u16	Mr. President. Not long ago, Iceland's bishop taught Christendom in schools as a subject of publicity. In 2008, a new elementary school law was released in a Christian teaching program. It was then the educational minister of the Independence Party, huh? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who recommended the bill. Mr. President. I believe it is important that Christian instruction be a resection in the basic schools of the country. Christian faith has been an modulating force in Icelandic society for 1,000 years. The history and culture of the nation will be understood without knowledge of Christian religion, morality, and the history of the Christian church. Every society is based on fundamental values. The school background is important, especially moral training. Schools are designed to impart such values, and in Icelandic society they apply to Christian roots. Despite the growth of Iceland, what religion has been the dominant figure in the shape of our culture and society is to be considered. There are cultural and social reasons for restoring Christian studies to an obligatory subject. It is natural to spend most of the time in education about the religions of society, i.e. Christianity. Teaching of other religions is also necessary to build bridges between other religions, to promote respect and understanding. The European Court of Human Rights says that if certain religions play a major role in the history and tradition of the land, there is no problem in building school on the values of those who are in the faith. In most countries, Christian teaching is defined as part of a general education. Basic schools in Denmark base religion studies on the teachings of Danish folk, ethics, Bible stories, and the history of Christianity. Norway says that the school is based on the basics of the Christian inheritance. Mr. President. The government is to protect the national religious and cultural elements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u17	Mr. President. Food policy is important in Icelandic society and it is now in progress for the first time. It contains key elements such as food diversity, climate, food security and increased export, i.e. a new kind of energy-rich industry in Iceland that can be expected. It's going to be about something like that. Fish farms and grouses, including land - based fish farms, and the geothermals and clime will be one of the main roles in all of this, since there is a great potential for it. I can mention the growth of algae and the production of special food from the sea, the fire of cold - cold and cooling fish, the production of vegetables, and the production of fruit, as shown in the front cover of the newspaper today. Mr. President. Education in climatic education is the foundation of all of this, thereby becoming the Gardening School in Alfus in its principal role. He's had some recent difficulties, I'm not going to trace them, but at the same time he's worked well in that town despite the difficulties. I give you a new syllabus, a fine cooperation with the article, and a variety of innovations that have been introduced at school. He has not been maintained enough. It has become out - of - date and has been tried to break down, but it is a long way off. This school now needs to be rebuilt, and it is necessary to ensure a powerful training course but also to further further further studies on the upper levels and opportunities for innovation. That work is now done. My compliments, Minister. The National College of Agriculture and the article to make this school the most and ensure high level of education and employment in the country. In this, all of us will profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u18	A respectable president. Violence is displayed in many forms. Recently, a dollar or a dollar would be worth a fortune. People paid 100,000 bucks, several months back in time. They allowed themselves to do something, thinking, " Now I can pay off debts, can stop taking just water and bread, can buy me something decent for dinner one day. ' The next month, they were pulled down to the ground, all reduced, all taken. What kind of violence have we made? How can we allow ourselves to treat sick people this way? Not a year, not a month, not weeks, but decades in advance. We are under obligation to make sure that everyone is allowed to live with dignity in Iceland. But violence continues. One out of every four employees of the work board has been harassed at the workplace, and one out of five people have been subjected to violence at work. It was on the news last week. The annual day against harassment and sexual violence will be held on a national level on November 8, according to the United Nations. We are to make sure that any form of violence, whether financial, sexual, or other forms of violence, will be stopped. We do not agree to allow for decades the same violence toward people who cannot defend themselves. If we can't even keep the work board on fire, which is to be kept under control that people aren't breaking up at work, if there's going to be harassment and violence, I say: "How on earth are we going to stop this? We have an obligation to do so, and we should do so right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u19	A respectable president. The weekend's discussions presented an interesting theory that the key to the success of the cooperation of this government was that each minister was allowed to act in his case without comment or criticism from other administrations or other members of the federal body. I think this is an interesting theory, but I find it more interesting to observe the government's cooperation in action. What do we see? A government government that's responsible for one of the biggest charge bombs in the government budgets that no one is responsible for? The Independence Party members strongly criticize it, in fact, treat the Ministry responsible for the lawsuit but, of course, vote with the charge bomb. Then there is the lack of competition and the freedom of farmers mentioned in a fine talk earlier. Senators criticize, members of Congress say it is unacceptable, but of course they do nothing and votes with unchanged conditions from day to day. This is a health - care area. Independence party members strongly criticize it, but what happens at a vote? Of course, votes are paid, but, of course, with loud protests in the media, pushing the green button when under pressure. Last night and this morning, in the case of immigrants, we were embarrassed to observe with a lack of humanity in its payment the kindness so greatly called upon by members of the left - green council of this country. And what happens? Yes, councilmen criticize, but they do nothing. You see, I think the government groups invented the perfect recipe for government cooperation. Each man has his own way, but no one is responsible for the ways of the government. It's probably the best alibi there is in this government community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u20	A respectable president. I come up here, as soon as I would naturally stress the freedom of speech by members of the council, for I noticed earlier that the members of the government resistance were normally talked about this tragic matter from night to night and this morning, in which a Albanian woman who is nine months away was expelled. An inhuman system was at work. Not one member of the administrative committee discussed this matter. At the top. But I remember a time when the council was much more discussing each case, not three weeks after it happened. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. The president will consider how to change and add special discussions, previously called extracurricular talks, for this is an example of a matter that is worthy to discuss with the highest level of conversation. Minister of Justice, not just in unsubstantiated inquiries that have always been, but that the council will have the opportunity to take a deep and deep look into such matters as this disaster this morning. [[The president calls.]] It's burning on us now, and I think the council should have the means to allow us to express ourselves and discuss these matters from the door.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u21	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, of course, is very special that no member of the board came up and discussed the serious things that happened last night. We need to find a point where we can discuss this but that we are not excluded from it because there are days or something else. I remind them that after the end of the 2016 regime, the presidents made a special agreement between the two groups, which was fundamental to the discovery of a solution, that foreigners would immediately be turned into special consideration for children, young women, and people in a more delicate position. It has been paradoxed, and when I called for the agreement that the presidents had made with them, it was signed by the Ministry of Presidency: There is no one who cares about keeping it. [[The president calls.]] Why are we making deals, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u22	The president considers this the subject of a very specific subject. [[Up front.]] Because the matter was discussed about the past of the council, the president reminds them that it is possible for members of the council to ask for an answer and to direct their case to another senator. It would have been possible in this case if they had wanted, for example. has a word with members of the board of directors of the Council Committee. Otherwise, it is in the power of each member of the body to record what his heart is next to this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u23	It's not a subject, it's a topic of how we can talk...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u24	The president allows him to review the potential for members of the Parliament - [[Yeah, yeah. ...]] [[The president calls.]] If the President gets a sound. The president does not intend to make it a practice to interrupt himself here when he is speaking. It's not going that far. The president is pointing out that the members of Congress can right up to that part of the program request to direct their case to a certain senator and that he will be given an answer and then be assigned on the rosary. Of course, any specific discussion can be requested at any time, and if it is particularly urgent and important, it is tried to pay attention to that discussion as soon as possible. In itself, there is no lack of resources and opportunities within the framework of Congress to address important issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u25	Mr. President. I've come up here to discuss exactly the President's conference management because it's beginning to be a bit difficult, Mr. President, for the president to feel compelled to stand up and confront members of Congress who use their freedom of speech from the Pontu II when the President finds something unpleasant. In recent months, you have felt it repeatedly, and it is especially shocking that when certain members of the council, especially in a position of government, allow themselves to express themselves, and their views have been established, they are mentioned as members of the council. I have to object because all members of the council, whether in a government or a government position, are here to have the freedom to express themselves. It is the privilege of members of Congress to express themselves without the approval of the president of the Generals at the end of the talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u26	The president is embarrassed to learn that he is biased.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u27	Mr. President. I apologize for interrupting. Of course, I'm not supposed to, but there are times when you can't calm down, especially when a president is interpreting my contents so that I'm not talking about the Senate but is in the subject issue. I think it would be fine if it was the highest. The chairman of the council took advantage of it and called out whether it was right the person mentioned here that a contract was made between the leaders of the classes on this point. It must be the role of a president to be in the middle of it. That's all I believe. Otherwise, the program has been out of the question for less reason than this, and I think it would be well possible if Mr. President tried to bring up a special discussion of these matters because they are truly worth it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u28	Mr. President. I'm a little interested, not just because of this tragic matter, that the council can show that we discuss current issues, not a moment, which was two, three, four weeks ago. Today we are sending in a request for a specific discussion, and then we wait on this and wait until stewards please arrive at the council and discuss a specific subject. I don't think that's what I'm talking about. At the convention convention, we will immediately request a special discussion tomorrow at the highest level. A minister of justice on the affairs of the immigrants, on the affairs of the Albanian woman, who has become pregnant for nine months and was exonerated, and, of course, all of this is as we know in the government of the left green. But under this part of the program, I am especially concerned that we will be given the opportunity at the council to have more vocabulary through a special discussion at the highest level. Minister on matters that burn on our people, burn on the people who live here, and want to be in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u29	The president allows himself to inform and hope that the climax will not be misapplied. The Minister of Justice will answer in unsupervised requests tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u30	A respectable president. I just want to follow this discussion that has happened between us. Councilmen and the highest. To mention what I have felt was a problem in the local language, and it is exactly how to discuss these matters from the depth that they need so that what we always believe is something we are doing, that our alien laws and our system are humane. If a person asks a Foreign Institute, he or she will be referred to a foreign hearing and will be called to court courts and to the legislatures. It's pointed here and there. Nowhere does it seem to be a scene where these matters can be discussed and exactly where the human spirit belongs. Despite the fine guidance of a respected president, I feel that I need a spot where delegates can openly and honestly discuss the matter between them. I can't find him. I don't think he's a dog. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and I haven't felt it to be the Assembly Hall so that I could hand this problem to a respectable president and say it's a problem. [[The president calls.]] We need a place to seriously discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u31	President will hear what he's saying. A senator says, but now he has considered senators to be resourceful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u32	Mr. President. To celebrate the use of sharp words. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín about a special discussion on this subject that will be requested and hopefully be on the schedule as soon as possible, I want to mention that this discussion must actually take place with two ministers, both the highest level. Minister of Justice as well as the highest. Healthcare Ministers responsible for the writing of certificates of health care professionals without any concern of health care professionals seem to meet the patient as the certificate applies. This is what has been going on in the affairs of those who are looking for international protection here, and this is absolutely contrary to health laws, regulations for the publication of dictionaries, etc. Of course, such a thing is a serious matter. Well, then the question is, what's the highest? The prime minister does not have to bring up such a discussion as the minister leading the government. So it's a question of whether the highest. A president can work out how to handle this, perhaps in a different form than two minutes of the senator's ability to present his case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u33	A respectable president. Just to use the other minute I have to discuss this: It's time for a special discussion. I support that wish. On the other hand, as I have repeatedly said at the end of such discussions, they are very short. A Senator in general gets two minutes to talk. When we talk to a minister in an unsubstantiated inquiry, you get two minutes. At the council, you can call one other senator, if a member of that body has time and wants, you can talk to the fine senator right after a man for just two minutes. When I think about keeping special discussions about foreigners or humanitarianities, I do not see the need for them. I don't see that two minutes is enough. I don't see it hard to see how the council works, and I don't see it that unprepared inquiries are effective. I don't see myself doing any committee work. A respectable president. I feel that there is a greater need for time and more respect for the need for this to be a time for a general conversation about the course, not just the council case we're doing at one time, trying to shovel out as fast as we can, and not in two minutes' shape here, but in a real deep discussion over half a day or so on some subject. [[The president calls.]] That's a far-fetched idea when I think of my experience at the Council, a respectable president, and that's what I'm complaining about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u34	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize public taxes and pay. This bill is aimed at ensuring the best security of citizens in terms of government funds when it comes to collecting public taxes and paying and validating a validation. This means that the bill involves some changes in current activities, believed to improve and increase the costs of currency. In a sense, some of the details of the bill are drawn from our neighboring countries and are picked up by some material models. The bill contains complete rules that were once distributed in various layers of law and procedures. The value range of the bill includes collections of taxes, taxes and fines, as well as interest, stress, and other government costs, and as sources of state funds, to collect. The field of values also includes collecting foreign taxes, payings, and fines committed by the head of state funds are assigned to collect according to treaties. Then the bill takes to reimburse the government on account of overcrowded taxes, paying and fines imposed by governments, and proposed by law. 29/1995 on the same subject falls. The law, however, does not apply to fines collected on the basis of the law on the full punishment or reference. The special regulations of other laws involving taxes, fees, and fines that measure otherwise exceed the requirements of these laws. The bill will not affect the survival of a government fund as unchanged as a law. Exceptions are about reimbursement of overpayers, as there is a significant limit to reimbursement of the laws from the current subsidies of overpaying fees, No. 29/1995. The objective is to ensure the equality of the currency and that they will be single - handed regardless of their expertise or expertise. This can have a positive effect on the survival of the state funds, as the law is in reality that those who have received assistance from specialists, lawyers, other experts in perhaps accounting or legal matters have sent a letter to the government's initial interest requirement, a much lower proportion of the cases. However, in terms of a large proportion of remuneration, we do not calculate to yield a bit of weight, but by making the proposed change, we might say, the discrepancy of the project is over. It is not to be expected that this will have a major impact on the survival of the Kingdom Fund, as I am here. It is thought that total laws on collecting public taxes and taxes will bring social benefits and will increase government quality as well as benefit to currency where there will be rules to be found in one place, rules that were not even published but included in procedures. This bill is prepared at the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs in cooperation with the head of the state tax collectors and in consultation with Peron Protection, the State's Economics and the head of the IRS. It may be noted that the bill was twice presented by government consultations. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This is, of course, an important bill, a process of harmonizing things, and, as indicated in the section Information and the need for legislation, there are regulations relating to the collection of public taxes and the retrieving of the various laws. It's normal for them to be taken care of, and I'm happy to do so. It also says that the main aim of the bill is to ensure the best security of citizens'rights to the state's funds when it comes to collecting public taxes and paying and establishing a validation. This means that the bill involves some changes in current activities, believed to improve and increase the costs of currency. I especially pause at what is said here to improve. Now it is, at the highest. Minister, that next year's budget, 2020, is being canceled when taxing on individuals and businesses up to 17 billion dollars. This is a substantial amount of money and may be used to various important social projects. So I want to ask the highest. The minister, whether with this bill, can be expected that there will be a cessation of taxes and due to the state and that we will not look up at such citations that will clearly appear on the financial bill that is being discussed at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u36	A respectable president. We have a special job now that I'm about to start, and we're trying to understand more clearly where the drop between the cane and the doors of tax returns that we could possibly collect with a better organization in the collection field. In fact, in recent years, we have made many efforts to control the scope of such cases by means of different angles, but the releases of taxes are much more than just a story of the success of filing operations. Subscriptions are also a reflection of a specific situation in the economy, and it might be said that the releases of the public demand are inevitable part of the overall burden and the collection system. At least I agree with what. A senator that we should keep a close eye on this team and be careful how it develops from time to time. I would think, without considering it particularly recently, that the picture of the past would be drawn that as economic conditions in the country have been better off, and as they progressed, public charges have become worse and end up in writing. So it is in this bill that we are in the process of introducing new references to the writing of the Scribes of the 16th paragraph. where there is a certain exceptions to what I would like to call for political reasons and to validate a set control system to guide and look to a particular requirement and over a period of ten years, i.e. as the start date of the requirement is ten years old.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I welcome it, of course, in the highest mind. A minister is naturally concerned that so much tax demand needs to be canceled, and I really hope that it will be replaced. I hope this bill is one step in that direction, and I'm also glad that it's checked specifically with the scripts. I think it's important to get well into what causes it to be writing out so much money that the government fund could use, as I said before, in many ways and are important to state funds. Is this particular about companies or individuals? It would be inexplicable to get the ratio in between. Rightly, Minister said it depends on the economic situation at a time. There's a particular lesion, if you don't mind me saying it, that it has to be a way of writing down when it comes to demands. Out there are individuals and companies who were supposed to pay when it came to paying taxes and expenses, but they didn't have to pay for it for any reason. That's why I think we're going to have to get into things so that this can be overcome by e.g. Guidance measures and improved collections. The improved collection must be part of a way to reduce the number of copies, which, unfortunately, are far too great.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u38	A respectable president. Here's where it gives you a reason. A senator notices an important aspect of the tax industry. These are factors that deal with stress and collect and eventually end up in such cases. The backups are, as I said before, the inevitable codfish of having a system of this pull, i.e. I think we have to face the fact that in many cases, requirements simply do not collect and are therefore written off. I give, for example, the bankruptcy of law enforcement. 16th degree. is seen in individuals, and it adds up to the new law to write out the requirements for a person to receive the final charge of the tow - raise tax if all the conditions there are picked up are met. It is not far from clear to say that it is a specific call from the agencies in the tax system to be authorized for such treatment because I think we are all aware that under certain circumstances, when this is a long time has passed, and otherwise people have shown efforts to deliver in terms of conditions - here they are looking to ten years of reference - it may be more reasonable to think that those responsible for filing for the collections had legal procedures but did not have a decision on the unwritten procedures or after some emotion that may seem reasonable for further measures. In this respect, I think that this article is very helpful to explain the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u39	Mr. President. Seven. The bill says, with President's permission: If taxes and payments are not paid on a one - day basis, the sum of the amount paid from due due date should be paid. This is about tolls, pressures, and costs that fall on taxpayers. Eight. for reimbursement of overcrowded funds, says, by permission of the President: However, if reimbursement takes place within 30 days of overcrowded funds, it should not be paid. The government receives refuge from paying interest for 30 days, but the taxpayers do not. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it's fair. Is that normal? Is there any particular reason why this could not be on an equal basis, that both taxpayers and the state will receive 30 days of refuge or neither party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u40	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that anything falls into the 30-day period is considered by the bill as a reimbursement that takes place within the right time period. This is where I think we're looking at what the regime thinks is practical to be quick about correcting pressures and performing reimbursement. Then, in paragraph 8, we read. In what cases should the currency be paid to attract growth, and thus it is assumed that as soon as the 30 - day delay is over, growth and growth may occur after the events of the growth growth plantes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u41	Mr. President. In fact, I would have found it better to get to the other side and to tell them that the interest in the taxpayers would start counting on deadlines rather than dues, at least. On the basis of the generally occurring system, it is even found in the laws on growth and insurance. In 7. It is illegal to reduce or reduce the growth and stress unless the law measures otherwise. In 8. See, on reimbursement of overcrowded funds, as well, says the president's permission: The reimbursement of these laws results in a loss of value before the end of four years after the start of the payment or deposit. In addition, when the requirement for reimbursement comes, there is an increase. This is another strange example of imbalances in which there is no expiration to taxpayers, but the government may, in some cases, decide that it will wear out. Again, I wonder if you can't do this a little evenly so that all the people come to the same level in this sort of thing. These are few things and boring things, but they usually come up because someone made an honest mistake. At that time, I feel that it is all right to respond. In cases where there is no honest error, where, of course, it is a fraud, this is not the strategy we need. Rather, there are other options that arise in this second fine bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u42	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator when he calls out that the way the state is prepared is reasonable in dealing with state - to - taxpayers in general and that it should appear to us in that the State does not legally leave itself to accept interest and after the events of interest but that if individuals own it, it is fruitless. I understand this basic thought very well, and I certainly don't want to do anything but encourage a financial and business committee to look at the balance between them. However, I have to point out that when it comes to stressing taxes and paying expenses, it is of enormous importance that there is little cost to borrow from the state, that one cannot yield taxes and pay taxes and assume that he is borrowing interest on the next month or even year. It may be in the context of which the tractor stalk is passed into law. It should act as a great incentive to deliver immediately and that everyone is equally affected. Of course, it might be taken into account, asking yourself, " Does the State not also need to be motivated to pay the right taxes and other fees, and when it becomes apparent that something has been overindulged, the government will not immediately return it? ' This is a way of saying that anything that happens within a 30 - day period is normal, but it can be taken into consideration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u43	A respectable president. I hereby recommend for billing to correct the change in clock fees, No. 138/2013. This is the removal of the plunger charge of documents relating to the possession of ships. The bill suggests the removal of law laws on time as required to pay the clock payment of documents relating to the possession of ships, but under the law, only the tribute of ships over the five grosstons. The current reference rate laws differ significantly from earlier laws on the same topic, but the laws were more complex and related to the value of the clock. Over time, however, changes were made in the direction of the time when the number of timers to time was reduced, including the number of timers. There was no such thing as taxation of air pollution, smaller ships, and purchase ships, but it was still required to pay the clock's fees of documents covering the ship's ownership of the five grosstons. After recording the current set-up of time, these ships are the only operators that still carry a time tag charge at the time of possession transfer, but in the legal explanatory data of the law, there is no special support for that reason. The reference to sectoral equality is considered appropriate to no longer collect stamps due to documents relating to this possession transfer. As a result, it is possible that, in the course of the time, the funds for the state's funds have been passed, i.e. that these are income stocks, which have been reluctant to yield, but it is recommended that the level of equality between sectores be assured, and therefore this change is proposed. It can be said that the change will improve the management environment in Iceland, lead to a more competitive environment, and will be comparable in a foreign situation, a situation in neighboring countries where this type of currency is not in force. In this respect it can be said that the bill is likely to be a support to the Icelandic seabed, and in this international context it cannot be ignored as it is viewed as a major international fishing route. It is not expected that the terms of the law will have a significant effect on the survival of a trust fund but that the effect will be very insignificant. I'd feel that the case would be greatly improved, as well as an example of the government wanting to show in its own will to simplify law and regulations and taxes and the cost of employment in the country. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u44	A respectable president. I would like to present the views of this discussion that when there was a problem, comments were made on this subject. There are some comments that I think it is important to be discussed in the Committee that will discuss this matter regarding the removal of the plunger. The voices have come from the labor movement, which I believe is right for us to keep an eye on. From this point on, it has been repeated that when ships are evicted or dissertated from Icelandic jurisdiction, their ship file here and in another state, they went to the rights of the Icelandic sailors who work on those ships. This is because Icelandic law and collective agreements on rights and that services no longer apply to those employees and self-employed rights, such as the right to pay due to job accidents, pension funds, trade unions, and the social system. In addition to the high standards of seamen, the rights have to be faced with a great decrease in pay. The concern that comes from the labor movement is that this may increase considerably in the violation of the time, thus having an enormous negative effect on the Icelandic marine class and that what may have prevented a ship's dissertation is the cost of the plunger tax, which is 1.6% today. We can be proud that, of course, the rights I mentioned earlier and other important rights will be enjoyed by the Icelandic sailors. These rights have not fallen from the heavens; they have won years of seamen's struggles for improved terms. I think the key is that we don't give it up. Rather, I'll see if there's any way we can do this, that this will not result in the excessive exposure of the Icelandic ship log, with the resulting result, job security, and loss of rights, to the sailors involved. However, there has been some evidence that a ship is being taken to Greenland. The rights are very different from those we know here. It requires that all underlings be green. You can understand this requirement from greenish interests, but it has collective contracts that are comparable to those here, all other social systems going on, and my accident insurance. If this occurs, the inhibitor's disbanding of the Icelandic shipping list will also help us to see that more sailors lose their jobs, thereby reducing taxes and reassigning the relevant sailors. I don't think it's a simple thing. While there may be equal conflict with other employment items, the reality is that this has actually been the sole inhibitor of human efforts to launch ships with the related consequences for seamen's rights and occupational security that have followed and all other options offered after the completion of a ship of Icelandic shipping. I just hope that this aspect of the case will be examined in the Economic and Business Committee and guests given to discuss this position and whether it can be adjusted in any way to meet these views on the job security and rights of the Icelandic sailors. But from this context, I have a warning on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to say that I know the views presented in the discussion of seawater rights. I believe there is reason to discuss them on the committee. However, my opinion is that in order to protect the rights of this class, sailors, it is a pretty hard way to reach the goals that are being discussed. We must be able to change the law on time, so that the production in the country will be comparable to that in other places, but also in other trades in Iceland, but at the same time it will take care of and after the events, it's a reason to do so, because of the legal issues that are particularly relevant to sailors. It should be of great concern to us as to the situation that exists regarding the management of the environment if the clock rate is actually the only barrier to having a ship dissociated, moving it to a new position, and going to a new crew in other countries. This brings up to my mind some questions about the competitive position and the management of the person who is involved in a discussion other than the plunger charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u46	A respectable president. I accept the viewpoint as high as possible. According to the minister, there is an equal between sectoral income and that the clock rate may not be the best option to keep seamen from falling and possibly losing jobs with these changes, making it easier for them to flaunt ships of Icelandic shipping to other countries according to what suits each major project. But we should have considered it together in this context whether there are other ways of worrying about the security of sailors and the rights that humans have had through ten years to achieve here in Iceland. We are to be proud of them and to be examples of other nations. Along with this bill, which, of course, is to pull the last rocks out of the street so easy to evict ship and thus reduce the safety of sailors on job and social rights, you might bring some other bill from the Minister who has a labour market to strengthen the status of these classes. I would've liked to see it two played together. I think we should be proud to have great rights from the Icelandic workers, whether for sea or country, and we should never give a discount on it, in view of the fact that the big business is supposed to be competitive. We do not want to compare ourselves with low - paying countries and countries such as Greenland, who pay much less and who are much shorter in the sea than we do. We're supposed to be the role models.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u47	A respectable president. Here's a bill for a law on the Scholars' Education Fund. The law is to replace current laws on the Icelandic loan Fund, No. 21/1992, the bill is the product of a full reexamination of long-term LIN laws. With a new law, it is intended to promote the support of students who are guided by equality and reasonableness; parents are far more supportive, are encouraged by a better course of study, and will create a more righteous, modern, academic loan system. A respectable president. A bill to legalize the Scholars' Education and Culture Department, following the motions of a team appointed by representatives of the Ministry of Presidency, Education and Culture, and the Federal Bank of Iceland. Special consultation was made with students in the processing of the bill and the employees of the Icelandic Leather Fund. The bill responds to the great changes that have occurred in the modern educational, educational, and social systems. The critical organization of students, other stakeholders, and the State Reconnaissance of the mismanagement of the State's scholarship to students in the form of wax pay and graduations. The scholarship to students becomes more visible and equal, but it is true that the current legal code on the Icelandic Board of Studyers has been established. The bill provides a risk problem for the current loan fund based on the current risk analysis, which has been carried out, and to support the continuing trend. The bill is to encourage higher education progress and to improve the effectiveness of the system as well as the use of state funds becomes more beneficial, and the bill is to bring instruction programs closer to the current level in the North countries. A respectable president. Ten points is the top of the bill. First, borrowers receive a scholarship in the form of a 30% student loan loss, along with compensation, complete a degree of testing within a given period of time. Second, students can be directly supported by a loan from children's forwards, and it is a complete innovation that takes into account the demographic development that has been taking place in Iceland. The co-workers are not excluded, and thus Iceland will be the first to provide students with strength for stress management. Third, a education fund will be permitted to pay out monthly student loans, unlike what is now, and it has been the struggle of students for a very long time. Fourth, creditors can choose at the end of their studies whether to repay their student loans with inflation or insure a bond. Is this a complete novelty in terms of the economic stability that has been in Iceland and the pace of the development of the skunks that Iceland's State Fund has been getting at the bond market which is the best that has been for a long time. Fifth, the principle is that a student's loan will be fully paid with monthly payments. They should be fully reimbursed when borrowing is nearly 65 years of age. Sixth, if a student finishes in the year he becomes 35, he may choose to repay his student loans with income - related payments. 7th, the government's educational aid will be a head strategist and support for children abdicating the laws on local paybacks. 8th, the responsibilities of responsible students on student loans in the old law fall out as creditors to the Icelandic loan fund and not to dissociate. This is a major step for the current borrower of the fund and a complete revolution, followed by many years. At 9th, a education fund will be permitted to provide temporary damages due to reimbursement of student loans by borrowers placed and active in special territories and specific study projects. Finally, 10 percent, the payments of student loans, along with pressures, are expected to depend fully on the loans the education fund provides. It's going to be self-sustained. On July 1, 2020, the law is expected to gain value and implement it. A respectable president. Education is the key to the future. We have the obligation to look forward, to set ambitious goals, and to ensure that the government's study support contributes to the level of equality, reasonableness, and benefits. I believe that by means of a bill on the Scholars' Education Fund, we have made a big step toward making good use of students and all of our community. A respectable president. I thank the many who came to review and participated in a discussion about the bill by sending us their reviews. The application was received from a variety of sources and clearly shows the community importance of this matter for all of us. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. and the highest. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u48	Mr. President. THE goal from the beginning was to provide the same education rights for all. The sea was established to provide workers and poor families with access to university education just as much as they could afford it. But now it seems to me that it's getting a little late. There's certainly something good in the bill, e.g. that we are taking steps to strengthen and that we will be paid out monthly, but it seems to be a significant increase in growth, thus increasing the risk of young people. Not just that, but that will vary from one to the next. In addition, a government fund is shrinking its own risk and rolling it over to students by suggesting a special stress on the effects of education. This, of course, is very special. I didn't pay any interest on my student loans myself. My wife paid a little interest, but my children should pay a lot more interest. I think it's a little twisted when we really have - I don't have 10 seconds left? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u49	Had one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u50	I'm still counting down. Am I up? I'd like to ask a minister if she's really not going back in part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and urged him to handle the matter very carefully. I would like to mention some examples of how we think this and how a large proportion of students come out of this system much better than the old system. Let me give you one example. Sigríður - year - old sailing is just graduated from the Master's class, lives in parents' homes, and has about 500,000 bucks. per month. Estimated loans during study period are 3.8 million, which, in the present system, she owes 3.8 million. With a transfer of 2.7. In the old system, it's 14 years to pay back, in the new system 11 years. What we are especially stressing is, of course, children in this country. We want to equalize our options, and we want to make the system much more beneficial than it's ever been. That's exactly what I'd like to name the children. Jón, now in his 30's, has just graduated from high school, has three children. It takes 10.6 million into the present system. In his new system, he owes 5.8 million. [[The president calls.]] Rather than spending 27 years reimbursement, he will be 17 years that way. [[The president calls.]] And now I ask myself, " Is this not a more reasonable, more just and better system? ' [[The president calls.]] My answer is obvious: Yes, it's much better, progressive, and a good system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u52	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister takes an example from the time when market fruit is unusually low. This can and will go on worse. A lot of things may come out better. I asked: Is this an apostasy from the social system where we're going to get particularly close to the worst? I'm just going to review the ASI's review material. With the changes, uncertainty about the terms and remuneration rates of student loans will be greatly increased, both by direct contact between interest plants at market growth and by sources of funds to determine interest loads to cope with the losses of the fund. In other words, if there is a market failure at the loans, the budget is not about to put a dollar more into the system than it does, putting stress on those who have already learned and are paying back. They're supposed to pay for the others. There's no social thought in this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u53	A respectable president. It's very nice to listen to the match here in a pita. In the old system, some individuals were able to get 85% down from their student loans, 85% while others may have received an exposure of 1762%. Here is growing equations, justice, reasonableness, a whole new system but has been and has been fought for years. The situation is simply this, and it may be disappointing, it may be a real disappointment, that between 976979% are better off or as well put in the new system, in the education system. This is much more reasonable, much more beneficial. It's a direct source of strength. We are particularly concerned with the children because we know the demographics of the country's development. We're going to meet this. They're taking real steps towards the system being what it's doing in the North countries, and I would have thought the same agent was more pleased with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u54	...will reduce growth to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u55	A respectable president. I want to direct a question to the highest. Secretary of education on responsibilities. The bill says that those who do not consider themselves loyal to loan workers can take responsibility for borrowing. I'm wondering who the infidelity is. Can they be listed? Could it be a person who, at an early age, was accidentally involved in taking an illegal loan and, as a result, went to the Creditinfo's registration record? Is he, then, one of those who are clearly irresponsible and who are not entitled to borrow? We're talking about removing the responsibilities system. There are those who obviously will be under there. The question is, Who should appreciate it, and on what basis is it denied?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u56	A respectable president. Of course, the big thing here is that we are removing responsible men. Of course, this changes the landscape greatly. Whatever it is. A senator here brings up an exceptional situation. I'm gonna take a closer look at the exact ways in which this is going, but I understand there are very few who fall under here, but thank you very much. A senator's tip. We have been struggling to break down responsible men because we are well aware that many people have had to write down responsibility for their children or family members and have committed serious debts because they have not done well and they have had problems. It's the business of many older citizens, and I'm really proud to submit a bill that's going to be a lot more equal in this regard, i.e. how and what possible non-responsibilities or responsibilities should the person fall upon the person. - Thank you. Yet, for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. We know that there are people out there who are sensitive because of their position in the community, who are in a position to be on the poverty line, even below them. We also know of those who suffer from disability. As a result, their situation may vary, even when people are older. I ask, don't we either have to take responsibility out or not? We should be happy if someone who may have done something about money in the past has developed to want to study. Then we should make sure he can, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u58	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator's opinion is that this is of utmost importance. We want total equality for study, and everyone can take a student's loan. Of absolute exceptions, as I understand them, are discussed in current law. I'm gonna take a closer look and thank you. A senator's tip. We'll take better care of the cost. Still, the big news we must rejoice about is that we are falling away from the responsible system. We know this well. The most conflicting conversations I have had with the person who has been taking on heavy loads because of this, so here we are talking about a milestone and a great deal of progress. But I want to thank you. A senator for doing so thoroughly and pointing to this aspect. We will examine him fully at the Ministry of Education and Culture and, of course, also at the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u59	A respectable president. In BHM reviews, we have received the information that education is not entirely paid for pay as well as what happens in control nations. In view of that, according to Article 16. is a student's loan inflated and does not collect interest during study, and the mass - folding effects of insurance are much higher on the individual's loans as the study progresses. If a person is finishing his Ph.D., the loans from the first few years have been well developed. The discount that comes with a 30% decline, the scholarship, has a much less impact on those who are taking longer courses and who have completed a doctor's course while they are not evaluated for pay. We're going to have a little problem where we might be interesting to deal with and we're going to have to deal with in a larger context, but we're also gonna have to work on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u60	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator's assessment of academic education has brought this to the fore in terms of pay. What we watch in this bill, however, is that most people's place is far better off with a new education fund than was with an old LIN. Because of this delinquency, people in their lifetime are far less likely to pay their student loans. We also look forward to a different period of time during the fourth industrial revolution. People even go back to studying, get new degrees, even take shorter courses. So I think it's a hell of a good way to finish your student loan sooner than it's in the present system. As I mentioned earlier in my history, it can remember up to ten years, and of course it creates a new space for further education or further adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u61	President. There's two things. Perhaps it would be an idea that when a person completes his basic study, the delinquency will take effect immediately, or the scholarship, even if the person continues to study further. It lowers the head position immediately, affecting the insurance policy. The other thing I wanted to draw attention to is the study I used to talk about. Granted, this will lead to a certain course at a university, but it does not provide the level of training that graduates from high school generally provide. You can obtain a student's loan and scholarship for finishing your high school course, not a scholarship for finishing high school that gives you rights. If you finish a college bridge, you'd have to go to the funeral school, for example. HR and get in there, you'd get a student loan, but not if you ran out of high school and went to HR. [[The president calls.]] You get a student loan in one place, not the other. What I'm trying to do is that I feel that going to school should be a little more standard, giving the rights to the student, that he's finished the same points as high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u62	A respectable president. As members of Congress have noted, the new bill, of course, is closer to being a student. In Iceland, school has quite a different graduation rate than any other country in Europe. In Iceland, we complete about 70% of the university level, while 30% completes the course. In Finland this is the opposite, and in Europe the ratio is about 50/50. It is quite clear that the structure is not very good for society and the demand for labor. We need to focus more on it. I agree that we need to take a closer look at the studies and those rights. I also know that some people go to L.A., not even to University of Akureyri, and I just have to say, okay? A senator, that I think it's special. I'm willing to go on that trip with a what? A senator considering it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u63	A respectable president. There are many things that are good in this bill, and there are certain regulations that I especially welcome. I see a good old friend there. I think this is a good combination of the bill of the then education minister, Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, and many good things that came out in the bill of Illugi Gunnarsson's son. It was different, but what I find positive is that not everything is being thrown to calm, but it is trying to integrate many of the good things that came along and were well loved at the time. So there's a lot of positive things here. Of course, there's something else that you put a question mark on, and we will, of course, be careful about this in the restoration. I just want to review the comments of the University of Iceland's School of Students and ask first: Can a minister claim that students who are very worried about it can support themselves while they are studying according to a new setting? Can a minister claim that students can support themselves in this setting?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u64	A respectable president. Thank you for the review of why. A senator and he notices that what we did in the processing of the bill was to examine and make just comparisons between the primary sites and the work that had taken place. We also thought about what we could do better, and we are especially concerned about children's families and that individuals are less in debt to the future because I think it caused a certain leak of wisdom. Hv. A senator asks if students can support themselves on this. That's where the distribution rules come in. I agree that one of the things that has been going on in Iceland is that fewer and more are taking on student loans. They work as students. They're going to be studying a lot later than in our reference countries. That's even. ... ofthisexperience. We've been increasing the difference in terms of this term, and we need to examine it even more. There has to be a guarantee that students can support themselves, but this bill, I say, is a huge step towards making the system much more reasonable, more beneficial, and better for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u65	Mr. President. We will, of course, review all these beautiful, important words about transparency and looking into the future, but I did not feel that a minister could claim that students can be calm about the progress on that basis. We will, of course, review it with a positive mind, for it is of utmost importance that we keep on building around the Icelandic loan fund. There's a lot of capital now in the fund that's waiting to be used for the good that's being done here. I warn, however, that we nod the above, rather, try to build into the foundation, with students and futures in mind. I'd like to ask, maybe there's an extra, and there's actually some questions. First, about the interest. A student body is concerned that the growth may increase substantially. Will Ministers worry about them? The other question is, What about the diploma study, the study of a disabled person at the University of Iceland, which was started at the time? Does their situation change? Is there any way to tell about diplomamates, disabled students at Iceland's University - they're opening doors for a particular group - can their position be strengthened by this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u66	A respectable president. The situation is that we are in low-growing environments and the state funds of Iceland have been changing rapidly in the past ten years. The debt of Iceland's state funds is about 30% of land production and the nation's clean foreign position has not been better in the republic. This creates a situation that we have not seen before if we look to both prices and unsecured interest that enables us to undergo these changes in our system. We can never accurately predict the future, however, the situation is that government funds are in a good position to undergo this system change. I agree with what. A senator that it is of utmost importance to use the environment we live in today to make these changes and continue to promote further positive changes in order to support our educational system. That's one part of it. [[The president calls.]] For my diplomacy, I need to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u67	A respectable president. This is a remarkable bill of a remarkable fund, a remarkable enterprise that has played a major role in Icelandic society, perhaps more than we ever think about, because the loan fund of Icelandic students has the time he has worked - and so on, with equal success - being, as it is called, the social equation fund. He's had a social equation. As such, it has contributed to a revolution in Icelandic society, not only to a life - changing revolution, but also to a cultural revolution. He's changed Icelandic society in a very radical way. He has made it possible for children from less wealthy homes, children who had no opportunity to educate themselves decades ago, to be educated, and to form the scene in our society today. That is especially the work of this treasure. This treasure is, in a sense, a party egg. There's a lot of positive things about this bill, so I'll go through it at the short time I'm being measured here - and then I'll be able to take a closer look at the bill on the committee and on the inside and on the 2nd. It's a very good thing that you should give strength because of the child's forwards, so I specifically mention it. It is very positive that monthly payment can be made, and it is also positive that borrowers who complete a degree of test within a certain period of time can obtain a scholarship of 30% of the student's head office along with benefits after study. As for the scholarship, though, I have to say that I fear a little bit about how they are financed. There's a certain catalyst system here, a certain kind of reward system. It is being rewarded for success, but I fear that it will be financed by those who may not be as successful. As a result, students cannot complete their studies in such a short time and need more time, and they will have to be worse off in their remunerations. Another thing that I think is interesting, and I make comments, and not just I, but a lot of people who have already sent in the envelopes, is the arrangement to give borrowers a chance to pay off money or a disloyal bond. It's a market area for this fund. And then there's this strain that I might be getting a little better at later. It is positive that student loans are paid with monthly payments and are fully reimbursed at 65 years of age. After all, it is not good to have paid off your student loans. But I have doubts about this goal at 35 years of age, i.e. to be able to repay the student loans with income-related payments if the end of the study is at 35 years of age. This may look pretty good, but I'm worried about older people with low incomes, who want to improve their place in life, and I believe this will narrow their chances. I'd also like to put this in context, like the highest. Minister mentioned earlier, the fourth industrial revolution and the need for a chronic education. We will see that people will be increasingly studying at all levels of their lives. It needs to be financed in some way, and I think that if a person's income is well made, he or she will be able to pay his bills that way. There are motivations in this bill that I think are good, i.e. that a minister can provide certain appeals for specific study articles where there is a need for more people. So also, I think regional catalysts have made a good impression, e.g. In Norway, and positive efforts. So there are positive factors. There is one thing I was thinking about these responsibilities that go down, the responsibilities of responsible people on student loans that are taken into the old law. It is said that they will fail in the taking of these laws, as credit is paid to the Icelandic loan fund and not to the undergrading list. So, with the responsibilities of a responsible man who falls down at his death, for he is a creditor, we will return the fund. Now it is, like, cot. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson pointed out, that people may experience tragedy in life and may even be misunderstood for various reasons, and people may have high and difficult student loans that may even be inadequacy. I may not think that's quite fair. At any rate, it is possible to wonder whether people who are such may not somehow be approached. The power system is certainly a step forward. As mentioned earlier, a student's loan is positive every month, and it is not necessary; it also includes many comments that it is positive to do better with children. I think it's time for 1st. the bill that the fund is a social equation fund because it is fundamental. What causes a man of my age is a little bit of a concern about growth level. Both student organisations, BHM and ASI have severely criticized these planned interest increases, and it says that they cannot be responded to comments, in consultations, to growth in which the prerequisite for the loan system to succeed, as it puts it, has been observed: I'm not sure I can accept this premise without a chance. I'm not sure that this system should necessarily be self-sustained in all respects, and I don't think that any growth in student loans is really acceptable. That's what I have to say. In the present system, only 1% of interest has been made, but they are supposed to be higher. They should be varied and without a roof, without a limit. There is a certain uncertainty about borrowers, and we cannot assume that the situation is as good as ever. As I said in the past, people who are in my old age remember that the Icelandic economy is extremely emblazoned and growing is constantly marking it. At the top of the growth, pressures to cope with tragedy should be in the range of 0.63/4.0.8%. This will have a profound effect on students, and it is not acceptable for the growth of student loans to increase and decrease as unpredictable as the yield of ever-changing government bonds. I would have been much happier having a roof on these interests, and I think that 1% is a good number for the roof. The pressure to decide for each year's distribution rules is said to be that if inflatable growth, the pressures of over 4% and the security of 9% should be imposed by a committee and to make a suggestion for a minister for change, a minister is not required to comply with what would come out of that committee. And we cannot always be sure that ministers are as interested in education and positive in education as in the highest degree. The current minister is certainly a minister. I don't think it's good enough to appoint a committee to suggest a minister who will determine whether or not he will follow the proposals made by the Committee. It's going a bit far in evaluating the market risk to employees and I think it's going against the social balance that the fund has. I, with the permission of the President, would like to quote the Council of Students which came to us earlier today, and I feel that I am able to capture a bit of the core of what I'm trying to say. In his declaration, the student council says by permission of the president: It is suggested that the growth program being proclaimed is essential for the upcoming of a new system and that this goal be met. This goal should not be set above the interests of students. According to the National Institute of Education, there is evidence of sustainable loans along with the market market application of interest plants to overpower the fact that no one is willing to further study support in Iceland, as the bill merely distributes the support that already exists more effectively. The wealth of the state fund of the new system can be about One hundred and twenty-three billion dollars a year, as assessed by the national benefit of the system, is produced by the sum of counselling ehf. At the same time, the government's expenses for the student loan system are in place. Thus, the government's failure to invest in education is lost, and it remains that the students in this country do not benefit from the increase in the wealth of government funds that will be returned to the student loan system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u68	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator here is making considerable changes and taking many positive steps. It's quite clear that it's a social equation fund, and it'll be even more so today. I just want to say that in the old fund, it's so that for the highest loan, the scholarship rate was close to 85%. For the lowest loan, the State's scholarship rate was 5%. Now it's going to be way more equal in this new fund, so I pray. A senator to look at it a little more. I'm talking about that statement as of any given moment. A senator quoted factors that I found interesting to know about the profits they should make. When Summa calculates national gain, it is a national gain, not a profit of state funds, i.e. that learning will be a little better, because we're just behind. We're longer in college than we're in a control state. It may be, and I'd like to discuss it with students, some misunderstanding here. It was the national benefit of accepting a new fund of education, not at all, that a government fund is trying to profit with a new fund, for government funds will continue to pay billions and billions into the education fund. We do not know exactly how much that support will be. He may go up substantially because his student loans have become so pulled together in the present system. I think we should rather ask ourselves, " Does the present system contribute to real equality for study? ' I'm putting a big question mark in relation to what evolution is. [[The president calls.]] But it may be a misunderstanding, let's just go over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u69	A respectable president. I guess I can't answer for Sumu ehf's calculations. We just take the numbers that come from there as they come to us, and in itself, I don't have a reason to believe that students don't understand the numbers or what's behind them. But I still feel that the main thing is - and I'm glad we're at the top. Ministers therefore share a point of view - that I believe this should be primarily a social balance fund. As such, he should not be expelled, so it is principally thought that he is behind himself, that he is self - sufficient, or that he has a view of profit, that all donations are to be paid primarily. No final assessment can be made on what pays for society and in every way. In view of our economic experience in Iceland and I fear that we may have an unstable crown, I fear these plans to increase and change our growth. We have a lot of uncertainty about the future in our economic environment, no matter what our present economic situation may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u70	A respectable president. If we always fear the future, we will not put forth effort to take on any progress. If we're always scared, we're not gonna make any changes. I can see why people worry that the interest is changing. That, however, is interest. As shown in the case of high prices, with fixed interest rates, there are over 4% of the interest rates. A senator will be appointed to review it. It is clear that we and the nation share a common interest in taking care that there are very little interest here, and the balance of the state's debt is good that these changes can be made. I'd also like to state that we are, of course, now creating a wealth of education that is much more reasonable. Let us just take a look at these examples. Some years are faster than in the old system, and it takes 30 percent of the money to come right away. This is not a matter of government gain. The wealth of government will continue to place billions in the fund, and this will likely be an increase because of lack of interest in borrowing because people have felt unreasonable. Now we're changing the fund. He'll be much more beneficial. We have solid strength, and I have no doubt that the status of students will be far better than ever and that the social equation will be guided by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u71	A respectable president. There's a big misunderstanding. Minister I fear the future, I will not. But I am afraid of Icelandic economic government, and I am afraid of the ability of the government to control the economy successfully. It is only realistic that is based on the experience of a man in his 60's. I'd like to ensure that young people are best disposed of such setbacks that may result from the economic regime. I believe that a real roof on the interest up to 1% will be the best to guarantee it. It's not right at the highest. Minister that it's a interest roof according to the bill. It's just a plan for a committee. Now that I am now, as it was earlier, 60 years of age, and we who are 60 years of age know exactly what it means in politics when it is said to be called. It doesn't mean anything. It actually means: Yes, we know about this problem, and we are going to push it a little ahead of us and let it be mentioned. In fact, this is a special term in Icelandic discussions, putting the matter on a committee, another word for "doing nothing. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u72	A respectable president. I come up here to celebrate this bill that has come to light about the student education fund, which is a new name for an Icelandic student who has been employed for nearly 60 years. The loan fund has been very important, and I agree. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity that he changed Icelandic society. There was a way for wealthy students to pursue education, perhaps just certain families who could support their children's education. But it's been called for a while, and since I was in elementary school and high school, one began to hear a call to change the arrangement and change the focus of the fund. It seems to me that with this bill, we are finally taking steps towards ambitious change. Of course, these are the suggestions that will be considered for the church's treatment, and we can express ourselves completely. I believe that the committee that brings up this subject will become critical in thought and grant support and may offer better suggestions if there is one. But I think this is a very good bill as the highest. Ministers have worked hard, and I have to tell her to compliment her that this has been a failure of former academic advisers to do anything knowing so far, even though many have tried. The role of the loan fund is legal in providing students with the opportunity to educate themselves regardless of their economic situation, but it has almost only turned to favorable loans but not to strengthen them. As today's system is the system of student loans, so it is possible for borrowers to owe themselves beyond their ability to repay the loans, so that people with children who have been living with even higher student loans after the study years may not be spoken of. And even though I'm not at the same honest and dignified age as I am. A senator who was here in Pontu, I studied with four children and took a student loan and got a higher student loan because I had a full house of children, and then I was stuck with a higher student loan. So I think it's a huge deal and it's an opportunity we can take advantage of. For decades, Icelandic students have fought for better terms, increased Bible students'rights, and equal opportunities for study. In recent years they have also called for improved learning loans and for increased financial support of their study by the United States of England. The bill aims to balance the support and distribution of Kingdom grants to the borrowers by means of a social support fund and by developing an impulse system for students to complete their studies at the appointed time. Yet, I know that there should be some room when something comes up, that it can be taken into account. The bill is a system modification of the current study aid system. This system changes can be assumed to be an improved learning course that will contribute to the better use of funds in the education system and greater efficiency in the future. These changes will include: will mean that the government's study aid will be more beneficial, the position of the students who need further support because of social conditions will be strengthened and more equal to the borrowers. Then, in 1992, the bill suggests that there will be a scholarship requirement, which was set up in the earlier student loan laws until the implementation of valid laws. This system will thus be more similar to the Norwegian learning system as it has been called. But there's something else in this bill that's new, e.g. This includes a set study scholarship to 30% of the head chair if the study is completed at the specified time, and then this direct support for child development. As we have seen, the principle that student loans will be paid with monthly payments. I think it's important something, because two major payments in March and September can be burdensome, so it can be distributed. It also matters that the responsibility is laid down. This may be the main source of criticism, i.e. This responsibility and that they are even being called out of their churches for credit on student loans, we know stories of it, and their heir. Then there's the warrant for temporary indiscriminates in the bill, and my rural heart took an extra fight and struck faster when I saw what I had, as it were, the weather. In the 28th C.E. it is said that a minister is permitted by advertising to determine a specific temporary innuendo in favor of reimbursement of student loans for borrowers living in regions defined by a Based agency. There must be a proposal from rural society or rural society to the government regarding the need for educated people in their homelands. It's a novelty that I find very interesting to see what comes out of. The article is newer than it is authorized to allow this temporary innuendo and to give advisers the opportunity to deal with a condition in which the educated are lacking in certain areas. This is a Norwegian role model, and this has been the last election fight for and especially for the last election, and I'm especially glad it's in here. As you can see, those who are stronger from their communities themselves. About 20 to 30 years ago, a mutation in the basic schools of the country in the vastly distributed community of educated teachers became a factor in strengthening teachers in these branches, as well as other factors, which are certainly inquisitive because we want to maintain a fixed standard throughout the country. Such coincidences can also be used in the health sector, where certain professions are lacking throughout the country, not just in the country, but throughout the country. This has provided the article for cleaning, adding to the pressures of others. I'd like to mention this in particular, because this is a point that we in the Agency have highlighted and that's where we look at what is done in Norway. I wish for a top-of-the-art Board of Education to cooperate with this ambitious bill that I hope will become the law and that we will look at the future in educational matters in a modern and supportive manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u73	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill about a law on a student's education fund, which is a new word for the loan. As noted earlier, the primary objective of the bill is to ensure those who agree with the law the opportunity to study without regard for economic status or economic status. It is fundamentally essential that everyone has the opportunity to educate themselves as his own will and as his own ability. What I immediately post is a question mark when I speak of borrowable studies, college education, schooling, and additional high school studies. When I went to high school and attended high school in Reykjavík, I attended a common wooden school, where I had to decide whether I wanted to be a builder, a boatmaker, or something else, for example. It's furniture. Although this study lasted continuously for eight months from morning till evening, it was not fortunate. What about building a house, building a boat, not borrowing people's health or life? I believe we should make sure that no matter what a person wants to learn, he should have the right to borrow to study. We are about to get into a strange example of high school and study, studying is becoming more monotonous than in times past because individuals focus more on certain things and study subjects, such as computer science. This need to be revised because it is often not just traditional universities that provide very good education for, for example. But those who want to learn there often have to spend vast sums of money to study it, and many cannot afford it. It's a very good bill, I'd like to say it, and a very good improvement in the law that counts. We're supposed to welcome all changes. I believe and hope that this is the first step in a huge change in student loans and the rest strengthens. I'll put a question mark, though, to the arrangement in 14th. g., that scholarship should include 30% reduction from the student's head loan as well as benefits after the graduates. For this scholarship, two courses and 60 ECTS units or their values are needed, but 45 ECTS units are required for study loans. There's a little difference. Consider, for example, a person with dyslexia or dysgraphia, who is not taking for granted a negative view because there are many other fields of reading that have tremendous abilities. This has nothing to do with brains. This person may have some kind of trouble, first of all, to get through the tests. They are not usually designed for those individuals. Second, it can take longer to take them. Then I think, " This person never has a chance to get a scholarship. ' He may find himself in a situation where he will never get that kind of strength, which, of course, we need to take along. We are under obligation to give everyone an opportunity on an equal basis. This is what I would like, both on committees and elsewhere, to be taken into consideration. Then, in other cases, we have disability. There's a gap. You realize that once you have a certain disability, there are many obstacles. We have different obstacles by the way the individual is disabled, legally blind, or otherwise disabled, but all of this can delay study and cause a person to never reach the number of units needed to be strong. Then we need to think differently. Can we have another strengthening system for those individuals to keep encouraging them too? This has nothing to do with intelligence but how long people need to complete their studies. The second thing I do in a paper with the bill is about the interest on page 5. 18, with President's permission: In order for the systems of this bill to function as expected, student loans will have to be supported and the state will no longer repay interest to borrowers as it is currently in the current system. I don't agree with this. I appreciate that study, and I think that it is good for society that we should not ensure that the State does not lose some of the benefits of studying. We should make sure that everyone gets to study and is especially sure that students who study can survive the benefits offered. Women are in the strange position that women can study for even six years and gather enormously high loans. When they arrive at the job market, there are many classes with incredibly low wages. You can hear that working in preschools or other child - care jobs is the reward after five, six years of college, 300,000,400,000 dollars. paid. This is not welcome. The person has huge loans on his back, and somehow we need to make sure that it is not just the choice of work that will lead to a good future. People's interests are reflected in their choice of employment, and we need to make sure that people choose a job by an amateur field and do not abandon it, and they choose something else because they think: No, I can't live through it. In the current system, there are 1% interest rates. If we have securable loans and 1 percent interest, I think we're on good business according to the choice of other places today. There is a measure of uncertainty because the pursuit of student loan has been reduced, and I don't think it will be an incentive, but if interest is not completely steady, what we are offering, what we're going to have. Let's not make it liquid because I think it scares me. We're supposed to be thinking: Okay, it's a guarantee, but it's got minimal growth. The wealth can just take a little swing to or that's why we should grow, at least do not have them higher than they are today, 1%. I'm happy as hell. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir pointed out that there are inquisitors to repay student loans for those in areas where education is temporarily lacking. There's been a man who's seen somewhere else, and I've been particularly aware of this in Norway of how Norwegian nurses would not work in the country. The bill points to a Norwegian role model and it's just really cool. This is what we have to think about. Well, it's cool that we've already had the answers that they're going to be examined with responsible guys, because we know that the old system was a disaster. Those responsible could face terrible problems. Young grandmothers, other relatives, and friends wrote on student loans, and we know that it does not take much money to make people have problems paying off on loans. I like this bill, and in many ways I'm satisfied. I think it's the first step in creating a good system, and I sincerely hope that we can create a system that is different from anyone. Rather, we all sit at the same table, and we also believe that everyone who has any disability has exactly the same potential both to study and to get all the strong ones and other things that are available, like everyone else who is healthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the comments that have been made here, especially with regard to Article 14. and the breakdown and concern of the person involved in forming dyslexics and that it is difficult to get the detoxification because of the disability or other disability. But there are exceptions, this is taken into account, and this is of vital importance. We must not create such systems that they are completely inflexible and do not take into account different individuals. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator well - known that dyslexics have different abilities, even though reading is difficult for them. We are as a community to work a lot with increasing the opportunity of the individual, so, of course, we take this into account. As for strength and growth, we are giving public support. We are making it more beneficial with strength and predictable in this regard. It's that 30% down on the head chair and it's totally safe. And what we're doing is that the system gets even. We're talking about some members of the old system getting up to 85% of their student loans and others under 5%. I don't think it's fair, I don't think it's fair what it is today. We're increasing equality for study and greater equality as far as public strength is concerned. As a result, I believe that the system is more reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the tip. Yes, I am happy that there is a system that makes possible those who are disabled, whether they are dyslexia or otherwise. We're talking about education, and I'd like to point out the trade. We're a little stuck in an old school, and I'm just taking examples from my children, and I've learned from them about computer and computer interests, and I feel like we're trapped in a system that's going to put everyone in a straight line into book study. We need to simplify and make it easier for those with abilities in certain areas to focus on that area and get as far as possible. But they often need an opportunity to do so. The system has to adapt to them, but they may not be able to adapt to the system because they lack the ability, the dyslexia, or other skills to deal with the entire educational system as they do. For that, we'd have to, for example. strengthening in certain areas, in computer branches, so that the person can concentrate on a particular field and get loans and facilities for study. There we may have talented people we're not using today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u76	A respectable president. I'd like to make it clear that we're giving loans that are relevant to training. It was in the old system, and it's also in the new system, and we've also been setting priorities for money at the high school level in support of training, by example. to help improve instruments. I hear it from high school champions and other high school people that they talk about a significant change in the interest of financing in the last two years, and I welcome it. But I think it's very important that we are always at this level because we see that we have a completely different ratio, as I've mentioned here, which is a study and a book study in Iceland, and we need to take it to ourselves, and we're doing it. I was very happy to see a 32% increase in Iceland's Technical School between the years that tells us that we are looking at our work more closely. But I can assure you what. The senator's regard for this education bill is taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u77	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and they make me very happy. In this case, I'm also pointing out that we have an independent working school in this field, such as the New Computer and Business School, teaching special degrees in a wide range of computer studies, which you can't get through normal schools without going through the whole system. I know individuals who have taken this very high cost and have completed their studies and are doing a great job in that area but have stumbled on endless school obstacles. Of course, it tells itself that there we need to find a basis and try to conform to university and Technical School and all in that area, that people who have the ability to go that way do not have to go a very costly way to complete these degrees, but can do it through the system as it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u78	A respectable president. I'm going to start by celebrating that we're discussing an overall review of the sponsoric system of Icelandic students. A long time job. The system we're saying goodbye, this bill becomes a law, which has long since walked to the skin. It has been maintained over the years, and somehow it has gone on. Sometimes, though, old laws just have to be pushed out and reused. That means the General and Education Committee has a lot of work to do. This system is no small work. But it's a very exciting project because we have an overall view of the system, and we can analyze how it affects different sectors of society, how it fulfills the role of student loans, to enable people to study appropriately, regardless of their economic situation. I don't think I'm hurting anybody, even though I say that the system we're saying is broken. We have talked about it here in the hall in connection with the financing of LIN, both in terms of financial planning and funding, that the situation faced, which is very unusual, that it collects money, that the government budget estimated into the fund year after year not only is sufficient but rather good, thus providing more billions, reflects that the system has not been working because loaners have been downsizing. This is a reverse trend that we may be able to reverse with a new system. It was discussed earlier today as well as the fourth industrial revolution. All of this is a big question of uncertainty. But I think there's one thing we can do. The fourth industrial revolution demands government investments in education. It made it possible for people to study properly, to be able to afford to study, to study, to study, to be strong and strong, and to be able to attend basic studies, which, in turn, become feeding for the innovation of the fourth industrial revolution. So to strengthen the student loan system, there is one piece in the big picture that needs to be drawn up so that we can deal with the fourth industrial revolution and the future. That in recent years the fund has raised its own money creates an unusual opportunity, which is a delight to be used here to tear off the patch of the responsible system. It is a financial blow that if I recall correctly, more than 3 billion in drafting, and it is not likely that the state will respond correctly, unless it has gathered into this fund, although the accumulation of funds is more a form of delinquency than something we should celebrate in itself. If so, it is very positive not to introduce a scholarship to a Norwegian model, which was now one of the main objectives of this overall review. We need to examine the General and Education Committee whether the output presented here achieves the equilibrium point between wearing yellow root and whips that work best. It should be in the best interests of people to complete study as quickly as possible, to manage and want and, in addition, to have a positive effect on the education system itself, the state that is able to make room within the education system to develop other factors than to keep people in high school for a long time. As I'm saying, this is something we need to check on the Committee. If so, children's grants are greatly positive, but they may also reflect one of the most outstanding features of the Icelandic education system and the university system mentioned in the report by the bill. 'The Eurostdent poll'. This is a unique view: Icelandic students are often older than other European students. They are more likely to be with children. They are in a totally different social situation than the average student in continental Europe. So it is good that the bill takes into account that specialness. This also points to the need for a further analysis of different groups and how the system deals with them. I mention, for example. Different position of the sexes. As a result, she is in a paper with the bill, while the sex - sex positions in the community appear, e.g. in that women are numerous in the later study group, perhaps after childbearing or at least at other lengths of life other than men. They are also women, as mentioned in previous talks, who are often from classes where wages are less than paid and they do. We need to look at what this looks like in the Committee and make sure that we have as many groups as possible, not just one of the standard students that fits into the simplest convention, but that we are reaching out and making it possible for most of us to enjoy ourselves within the system. So now I'm saying the opposite, we also need to take a closer look at the standard student because the most things have been raised around this bill are events that might even include peripheral events. It's Sigga on a solution to the three children mentioned by the minister or students who need additional support for their position. The majority of students, however, are people who have recently graduated from high school, who either live in a rented home, often a student's organization, or a house of parents. Because people are mostly concerned with the process of self - forwarding. As mentioned earlier in our discussion, it has been examined repeatedly in recent years, but as shown in the comments of the University of Iceland's School of Students, it is of utmost importance. There is something that we need to look to in the discussion of the Committee. Then I think we can stop at the goal of the bill that the loans part of the system are going to work out completely at any given time. It has been suggested that by considering the risks of inflation or adverse loans to the public, we can discuss these in general without examining any economic horror films of increasing inflation and asking ourselves: " Is it all right to be costing something to the system and showing additional support in the work with the government's wallet rather than the learning loan system itself? Is it not all right for students to be placed in more money from the state than for them to be practically a loan fund for borrowers who come to the credit section? Similarly, we need to examine the hell that I think is to be avoided from the previous death. I'm not so convinced that e.g. The bill presented by Illugi Gunnarsson back then was an improvement, as I heard the reason. paritaprevir In a speech earlier today, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir mentioned the daughter of Gunns. Thus, what was especially dependent on the bill was that it was actually only being moved for support within the system. There were those who needed to borrow the money they had given to those who might have said that they had not needed it. We need to make sure that the transfers that take place in the bill that we have in our hands avoid this pitting and that the system we build up is fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u79	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson spoke of alimony. Students on student loans worry about her. I want to ask you why. A Congressman: How should we find the right forwarding? Who will find it out, and how should we calculate it? We will find the challenge that we have not yet gone to the end to figure out absolutely what a person needs to survive and then what a family needs to survive. There are high levels of consumption that vary, and no one seems to suggest a precise calculation. I'd like to ask if the senator has a formula to figure it out or an opinion of it. Then there is the industrial revolution. He spoke of the fourth industrial revolution, and today he is a computer revolution. It just gets bigger and bigger. I'm asking him in that context because I'm interested in changing this system somehow. We need individuals in the future, I don't doubt, who only have extremely computer knowledge. Somehow we need to activate these individuals. I know a lot of the ones you don't go through normal school.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u80	A respectable president. There are no small questions raised by the senator, how basic progress is calculated in the community. This is a natural problem because we have different standards and somehow it works as if there is no harmony. Of course, it can be reasoned that students may be able to endure having a lower standard than for the creation of microorganists because they need to live on their advancement all their lives while a student is temporarily in their position. This is something I don't think we're going to get any conclusions here or now. But I think that a General and Education Committee can probably dive a little bit into this and that it will be useful to further the growth of the Generals, which has recently taken place in the form that now has an economist of committees and can only cross the Excel documents with us. Regarding the needs of the fourth industrial revolution, I completely agree that there are people with computer knowledge and that it is often obtained by unconventional means of study, as it were. Let us not forget, though, that people also need ideas and critical thinking and creativeness and a great wide variety of gifts to build a future society. It is not enough to know how to program the thing, it also needs to know how to get the idea of it and how it will be used best in the community. It's also a more fun society where we have people with wide foundations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson before the counter, I ask him further: " Is he willing to agree with students who have criticized the fact that the goal of living is too low and that it is difficult for them to survive? What we're talking about is a little bit of a weird consumer policy. If we're just taking our own societies, they can't even agree on them. Since no one seems to be able to agree on anything about the priority of consumers over their heads, it would be cool to activate this economist and let them calculate clearly what individuals and families need to support themselves. I agree that we have to create a situation for everyone, whether it's computer science, art, whatever creation it is. We need to keep our minds fixed on the future, and it is changing rapidly. I hope he just agrees that we should think about solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u82	A respectable president. I think I can have this short this time. Certain reporters have gained weight in this matter. We've already heard about students' organization, BHM - that could be called the student loans Association, which affects the groups that have not gone through college, but other sectors. These are the reviews we have to lie down over, look into our basement, and take very seriously the tips we find.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u83	A respectable president. As a whole, I feel very happy over this bill, and so I'm doing the highest. Secretary of education trying to meet the needs of our students. There has been no secret that borrowing has been greatly reduced. Our young people find it difficult to get out of their parents'homes. They are offered a very difficult setting for what is available for them to make plans, except for the resources offered by the student council itself to the students' gardens. Yet, it is even difficult for many to rent, so they are more at home with relatives or parents. In fact, the situation of Icelandic students has rarely been stronger, I think they have already collected about 15 billion dollars. The resources and possibilities that a minister now offers, perhaps trying to further encourage our young people, to draw them out and to help, are very positive. On the other hand, I really like the review of BHM, college people. There are many factors that must truly be examined and that need to be reviewed, and the secretary will likely do so. I trust that. I was a little afraid of what they were pointing at in the 3rd mg. 20. The bill that says that if a person is 66 years old and hasn't paid up his student loan, he can only have the right to pay his fee as he does. That's pretty harsh, to say no more. Many 66 - year - olds, apparently too many, are in a position where they simply cannot afford to pay back all the credit. When we talk about equations and equalitys in all of this, it also shows that most of the young people are being looked to, perhaps the nature of the situation, I don't know. As older ones, we may not be as important as the future. But there are other factors that I wanted to have special consideration for. In every part of our system, whether it attracts this good bill in many ways or in many other ways, there is a degree of discrimination. There's a huge class distinction in this country. It's as simple as that. We have a large group of drug addicts, we have individuals who have e.g. getting out of therapy, young people, grainy people, with expectations and optimism and smiles, who really want to deal with life and even study. In fact, it is heavier than tears when you face the fact that there is virtually no catch on these young people when they come out into society, in a very limited way. At least I expect that. that now, when we cover the bill, the whole body of Congress, we will lie over it and improve it on the committee and elsewhere so that even more people will benefit because the purpose is good and the will is clear. Of course, we're working together on this, and of course we can always do better, and I have full faith that that that's what's right. Secretary of education is headed for the bill. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I'm grateful for the bill. So we've got it in our arms, and I really hope that we're going to win it, so we don't have to wonder if it's for everyone, not just some.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u84	A respectable president. I hereby recommend for a bill to correct the change in drug and drug law, that rural societies will be permitted to set up and run the consumption capacity of an official surgeon's office. Small changes in the bill have been made since the last assembly, but this has not been paid, taking into account comments made on the committee's activities at the last council. Waste space is defined in the bill as a legal protection environment in which high - risk persons 18 years of age and older can consume drugs intravenously under the supervision of employees and are kept in good hygiene, safety, and infection prevention. According to law on addiction and drugs, protection and treatment of these substances are prohibited in the Icelandic Precinct. By granting the sufficiency proposed in this bill, there is a valid authority available for the establishment of the consumption space where these materials must be consumed under the supervision of personnel and in situations which minimise the risk of exposure, such as infection, overdose and other serious complications of use. The primary objective of the bill is to improve quality of life and improve the health of individuals who consume drugs intravenously as well as reduce their consumption outside and in public. Necessary spaces are primarily indicated for decomposition, i.e. to reduce the health, social and economic consequences of addiction and drug use without necessarily reducing their use. A cut - down will not only help people who use such materials but also their families, the local community of the user and the community. The World Health Organization and the European Union have discussed both destructive measures such as consumption resources that they consider to be an important factor in reducing various infectious diseases, as well as death from ingestion of overdoses. In this context, consumer consumption has been divided into three: personal benefits for the individuals taking the components of the intravenous and the immediate, social benefits best seen in public areas and finally for the financial benefit mainly of short periods in hospitals, early interventions and lower drug costs for the treatment of HIV infection and hepatitis C. As noted, Mrs. Ragnhei, who operates by a special red Cross car in Reykjavík, has seen individuals who consume drugs intravenously for clean syringe equipment and even essentials but who need additional services for the individuals involved in this article, i.e. general health care and health care as well as hygiene facilities. There is also a need for a place where they can consume the substances under best circumstances. A respectable president. The bill discussed here was especially viewed by neighboring countries, but some 90 consumer space is now operating in many parts of the world. In particular, Denmark and Norway have five consumers in Denmark and two in Norway. There and elsewhere it has been considered important that consumption services should be defined as low threshold services. This means that all obstacles are removed in order to make it easier for the individual to make good use of the ministry. Then the service is specifically tailored to the need of peripheral individuals with a harmful decrease. The effects referred to include The overall attitude of the workers in health care, lack of confidence in the health care of individuals, open - up time for consumption, design and organization of space, location, waiting time, transportation, and remuneration. In addition, it is necessary for consumers to be offered services for basic needs of intravenous individuals, such as nutrition, hygiene, clean injection equipment, and clothing. They will also offer integrated health services, e.g. to prevent infections and provide psychological support. These are references to drug treatments, specific health services, social counseling, and other education. These items will be implemented in a Regulation set up by the Minister for Agency and Drug Administration. A respectable president. It is suggested that according to the surgeon's permission, there be a period in which individuals are allowed to take illegally illegal drugs. Thus, it must be expected that those who are going to consume will be able to have the dose they intend to consume. So the bill suggests that police and rural society will be allowed to negotiate that the police will not take action against the users of consumption in a designated area around the living room. It is estimated that by contrast, consumption will be a place for individuals to consume substances into a vein. However, there is another facility for providing them with health care. The above regulations require that in each consumption space there will always be two employees on duty and that one of them has health science education, but the other does not need to be necessary, but it is important that people with basic knowledge of the ideologies of damage. A respectable president. The bill recommended here is an important step in protecting the life and health of individuals who live under a serious addiction that is not only life - threatening because of their consumption but also because of the danger of being absorbed intravenously by the wealthy in uncertain situations. During the past year, the need for the resources recommended here for legal approval has been unequivocally demonstrated in the face of demand for the services granted by Mrs. Ragnhemur ▪. Each year, some 450 people attend the service that is performed there, and an increase from year to year has been progressive since the year 2008 of Mrs. Ragnheld. The increase between 2017 and 2018 was 7%, but from 2018 to 2020, the increase was 38%. It is also clear that additional services are needed for those who are involved and that the objective of this bill is to ensure legal requirements for such services. There are already 50 million budgets available. K. to this work, both for the Agency's consumption and for its management, on the basis of the laws under consideration and where the need is most urgent, which may be expected in the capital area. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill being discussed and allow me to suggest at the end of the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and 2nd Environment Committee. I want at the end of my discourse again and again, thank you. The welfare committee for a very good cooperation at the last council and expect to cooperate equally with the committee this time, expecting that this time we will be able to make this important legal matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u85	A respectable president. V.E.G. At the end of her speech, the minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir mentioned that she thanked the welfare committee for her well - being in the treatment of this case right now at the last assembly, and I would like to ask the highest level of questions. A minister in her response to the wishes that came from a health committee, where all members of the health committee wrote under the opinion of the committee, with permission of the president: ▪ The Agency gives good reason to determine whether there is a greater reason for legislation to deal with these individuals so that they will not be punished because of their disease‡ - i.e. a disease that the committee considers to be a leading drug addict has - ◯B one of the health - care committees to work systematically to eliminate punishment for the possession of drugs. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why was the way a health committee insisted not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u86	A respectable president. The Ministry took the Commission's review very seriously and specifically examined the dosing indications. At the same time, there would be a Senate case, a Senate bill, where there would be trouble. The former head of the welfare committee is Halldóra Mogensen, the first carrier on this very point. I think it's the monopoly. The welfare committee examined the matter at the same time. The Ministry viewed it as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, and it was an attempt to define consumer dosages, but in earlier U.S. police comments received in the fall, it said that consumer rations would have to be made more notice than the quantity determined to be a dose of consumption. There would have to be some room. Hence, the decision was made that there was an impossible option here. Mrs. Ragnhey's experience is that all persons in question are generally homeless and are on the day with the narcotics they're going to take during the day, either into the vein or by inhalation, and may have several doses, etc. [[The president calls.]] So it was quite a matter of opinion that came up in the Ministry's inspection that prevented these regulations from entering the bill. [[The president calls.]] But, as I mentioned, it is presented in a matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u87	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister for the answer, and especially what appeared at the end of her case, says that even a few doses of drugs are being brought on by highly led drug addicts. If I understand this bill correctly, the plan is to give birth to drug users who are going to take advantage of this space to have what they're going to use in the space. I wondered, " Is this harmony with what's at the highest level? ' A minister was saying that they often have several doses of consumption, with the doses they plan to take out of the day. How should this be worked out if there is just one dose in the consumption room and one more time than they carry all the doses on them? Is this formalisation sufficiently assured that we are not even catalysing users to use more than is indicated by this source? If you can only take with you what is to be used, is that not the motivation? [[The president calls.]] Especially if the police are waiting outside. Then one more dose can be taken with you?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u88	A respectable president. I'm aware that this is a problem. It is now, for information, that the Norwegians intended to define in the Regulation the amount and type of chemicals to be consumed after the law was changed over the past few years, but they have failed. The policy there appears to be a dose of crime, but it is in the same clip as before, i.e. CYP3A4 by specifying an oral dose. What is it? I haven't seen a simple way out of that clip yet. However, it is planned to implement a Regulation and the treatment of the Committee on this matter, and I think it would be very good to put up with the Regulation at the Committee meeting when the committee is in place with the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u89	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill that's to correct a change in drug and drug laws, about consumption. After reading the bill, the first question is: We are giving authority to a local partner, but who will take over the cost? Is it the State or the Country Society, or is it divided? We're talking about rural society, and I assume that the big corporations in the capital area are the only ones who can afford to do something about it. But I'm thinking of my community. I think this is a health problem, something the government is supposed to handle, with the help of a unit to get a position for this space. But I ask, how does a minister support the cost change?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Based on the demand for the service of Mrs. Ragnhögni and the population in Iceland, it is reasonable to assume that this kind of service is needed in the capital area. The Ministry has been in contact with Reykjavíkurburg because of an interest in setting up this type of space, and as shown in my introduction, I have assumed that I can arrange up to 50 million each year to meet the cost of this process, both in the business and in the structure. I figure there should be sufficient to meet the potential for the operation to build up and the business to be ensured at least First year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u91	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm going to carry on with it as fast as possible. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir mentioned earlier, that's the dosages. According to the latest news, this is so much different. Those in heroin may need two injections a day; those in the opioids may need ten to twelve. The difference over there is completely Garthian. We could have a real problem right away, setting out what consumption is for the day. I say for my part that we really have to figure out how to click together, and I ask a minister, "Is it really going to have a solution to that? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u92	A respectable president. No, as mentioned in my history, I don't think that there is a clear answer in this matter. Here the decision was made not to list the amount of consumers in the bill but to indicate that the user is allowed to possess the amount of addictive and narcotics he is about to consume, as the bill says. It involves the variability that is common. A senator mentions. But because of him. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir noted that there is a possibility that police are waiting outside of consumption, then it is assumed in the bill that taking the substances in the immediate environment of consumers will also be innocent, so there should be no concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u93	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. The health minister is very impressed with the persistence, for bringing this bill back, as it is in my opinion that it is a very important matter. I won't lie on my team at what? The welfare committee to settle this issue because it is a human policy. Slice reduction is such a course. I'm the highest. Ministers to direct their peaceful humanitarian eyes also to other populations in the community, e.g. Let's get women to run away, so they say here, because of the highest. The minister wasn't here today when we discussed it. Drug addicts have the right to receive human care, and I want it to be clear: Whether it is a consumption area in the capital area or anywhere else in the country, if e.g. Will it also be expected that the government will fund the health sector of this operation? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u94	A respectable president. It was boring not to be here today, but it would be so much better for me to hear the council's work as I was waiting to find out about this. I agree with that. A senator that pregnant women escape deserves a human opinion. That's it. I want to thank you too. A senator for a positive attitude toward this matter and the underlying ideologies, which are humanitarian and destructive. I would also like to say that it is of course important that we, of course, be there, and that cooperation is expected between Reykjavík and the State on this matter. Of course, if more rural societies were to be involved, which was expected to be a Akureyri town in the light of the crowds, we would look at it. It's a work assignment. No other way to look at it is to cooperate with the government, which has health care and with the community services of the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u95	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to respond, and it is as good to hear her attitude toward pregnant women fleeing, who truly need some kind of government protection and that we pay attention to them in the last and worst times. But that's a very good bill. You wonder about this 50 million. Today, practically every area of the health system, whether in a local hospital or in a nursing home or in a foreign hospital, is affected by major cuts. It makes you wonder if it's the highest. The financial secretary has actually given green light to the number mentioned here, i.e. 50 million on this mission.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u96	A respectable president. I am delighted and obliged to answer, for the medical system has enjoyed a great deal of financial building in the history of this government, and it has not been cut down on any subject. Not in one of the budgets has been cut down. Sadly, it may have been used when individual organizations cope with a predictable waning in the current year, which all institutions must do if they are heading for it, the term is used, which is not relevant, not at all. But on the other hand, I'm going to say that, because of it. A senator asked if the secretary of finance had given green light to these 50 million, that these exist in the frame of the Ministry of Health, and the General has decided to make a decision to make these contributions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u97	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for consumption space. I thank her for wanting to bring in a debasing alternative for sick drug addicts. I guess it's only the ones involved. That's why I'm looking forward to it when we get the bill that had it. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is a carrier that no dose will be punished. On the other hand, I think there's a lot of stuff in there. V.E.G. A minister contacted those with the best knowledge and offered to provide guidance and such, in order to form the Vog hospital, which has many reports and reports. They have 100 people, who are chronically ill, who are very ill with drug addicts, and they care for each day. I'd like to ask you if it's the highest. A minister has been in touch with them and has allowed them to take their stand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. The nature of the matter is in this case, where we're clearing runways and taking steps into a completely new reality. We haven't been on any of these terms before. Of course, in this light there is a need to have very broad consultation and to speak with many who know that existence best, and that, of course, is those who are doing their own business through these means. However, this has also been shown in dealing with YES to welcome all the things that can help those who are being discussed. If an individual is not therapeutic, such as brain injury, maintenance treatment with SFE is already provided, which is the old Methadone method, with a reduced quality of care. So this ideologies is really a part of the ideologies on which the YES are based. We are completely in step with what is being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u99	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The fact is, I've been in touch with the U.S.A. and have been trying to get some information and knowledge of what is going on in the countries around us as the highest level. According to one minister, when consumerism was established, special attention was taken. There's a lot of different consumers. It is mainly for heroin users who give their injections twice a day. We have people who are injected with stimulating substances, amines, and such, who give themselves up to ten times a day. These individuals will likely need to stay close to their consumption. There's also something else that's growing up for me. I feel that we are somehow showing discrimination among the addicts over the head, the addictions. What does it mean to be in some Šfre zone to be, a safe area around the area of consumption? Mustn't it be defined clearly? Do we not have to use the rules more clearly so that we do not compromise them? Is there any way to negotiate with the police? Can a community agree with the police to turn the blind eye to what is now a crime? Isn't there reason why we really strengthen the laws around us so that there won't be a crash?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u100	A respectable president. I know why. A senator in particular burns for the interests of those who are locked up in society, so I expect that it is not correctly understood by me that it has doubts that consumption is a good way to show them compassion. I have both the history of my life and the answer to questions. The members of Congress repeatedly admit that not all questions are answered. There will be a considerable task. a welfare committee completing the case and including In view of the concerns that have been observed with what has been called consumption doses and without crime, etc. As a result of this, and because the bill speaks of a state of Regulation, I think it is assumed that, with the treatment of the matter, the Commission will be presented to the Regulation and the avenues presented there to resolve the issues of opinion. I sure hope so. paritaprevir Sæland Goland has no doubts about going that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u101	V.E.G. President. I had thought of giving a speech about the loss of injury in the first place because of the contribution of this bill for the second time. I am moved, though, to respond only to the discussion that has taken place up to this point in the first place, perhaps especially at the highest level. Health Ministers of Svavarsdóttir Svandís in terms of the definition of consumption doses and the questions we are considering, whether consumer doses can be defined, or if we need to go any other way, about the problem that we face when it comes to it. V.E.G. A minister referred to an example of the Norwegians who had a problem setting consumption dosages. As far as I can see from this report, however, they are involved in the use of criminal consumers. They just haven't been able to do that in line with the law on consumption. It's good and good, and it's great that they can fix it. I think it's important that we adopt that kind of thinking here, too, because I don't think it's legal to define the exact amount of consumption for every drug on the market, but it's much more important that the police and State Attorney get a clear order to stop chasing people for drugs. It should immediately change the attitude of the police. When it comes to goods for sale, there are other indications that the materials are intended for sale rather than for personal consumption. If there is a question, then court decisions are appropriate. Then there is much more to prove than simply the amount of matter itself. But there may be a debate that has a better place in our bill on the criminal consumption of drugs, which I consider very important and very important to get a track walk together with this bill because we're suggesting that there are certain risks only of having certain areas and having the definitions in there. I'm sure it will help to protect this vulnerable group. Another thing I wanted to talk about is using words. I think it's important that we look for greater human feelings toward this group, when we're talking about destructive resources, dignity and humanity. that we consider choice of words. I wish for it. Senators considered their use of words. Instead of saying "natures," you might say. say people who inject drugs into a vein and stop using a very negative meaning about the individuals they claim to be helping with this bill. Likewise, not all people with drug problems have to call drug addicts. That's not always the problem either. People with drug problems are also often spoken of. Then I've got it out of my way and I can turn to what I think is so great and great about this bill at the top. Healthcare Minister for the damage to the approach it provides. I've thought a lot about it, and I've written down a considerable amount of paper about the loss of injury. I wanted to talk to her about it. You can initially find the idea of damage as opposed to the AIDS epidemic that broke out among drug users in the 1970's and 1980's. Today, the damage to policy, management and action involved in reducing negative, health, social, and economic impacts of illicit drug use without necessarily heading for a reduction in drug use. An example of damage is the project by Mrs. Ragnhey of the Red Cross of Reykjavík, where nurses and other educated experts offer general health protection to community perimeters. I think we all know Mrs. Ragnheiður. It distributes clean injection needles to persons who are injecting, take used disposal procedures, take blood pressure, puts a wound dressing and other damaging care. Depressive measures can be used in conjunction with other measures intended to stop or reduce the incidence of drug abuse in the community. On the other hand, ideologies are determined that some drug users cannot or do not want to stop using drugs. Similarly, she admits that some people who use drugs do not need treatment for the use of drugs. But why the damage? Emphasis on strong law enforcement practices against drug addicts at the health - care expense has led to the worldwide spread of AIDS and hepatitis C. While infection rates generally decline, the rate of infection among intravenous drug users is increasing. It is estimated that 16 million people are experimenting with drugs in the world. Of these, 10 million are infected with hepatitis C and 3 million are infected with the HIV virus. Fear of arrest, excommunication, or other severe reaction to substance use promotes the risk behavior of contaminated consumers, inhibits their bioavailability to clean needles, and increases the risk of transmission by other consumers and their partners. The proportion of those infected with hepatitis C rises to up to 90% of all subjects in those countries where ban policy policies are most efficient. The problem has actually become so serious, and the causal relationship between the drug war and the incidence of AIDS and hepatitis is so obvious that the World Health Organization has taken the historical step of calling for the criminal abuse of drugs to cut off the epidemic. Obviously, because of this and many others, Pirantar contributes to the crime of possession of drugs. In addition to promoting further spread of infectious diseases, criminalism has other serious consequences. Overdose of substance is a major cause of the deaths of young people in Europe. Overdose is thought to be the cause of death for 3.5% of men under 40, and overdose is the major cause of death for those who abuse drugs. Opium-related medicinal products are found in the case of death, a greater proportion of deaths due to overdose, in approximately 75% of cases. The number of deaths may be attributed directly to the prohibition itself. The war against drugs, fought in the name of the health and well - being of people, has turned into its opposite side. At the same time, huge expenditures to law enforcement and criminal justice have been reduced in investments in health and social services for drug addicts. Instead of helping those who use drugs to maintain their health and well - being, the world's governments have been determined to further harm them by imprisonment, perimeter use, and forced drug abuse. In response to these inhuman methods, people around the world, especially doctors and health care professionals, have taken care of the situation. These courageous people have often stopped their work and their freedom to give drug users the necessary health care. With a human spirit and respect, they have visited drug users and have offered help to reduce the harm caused by the use of illicit drugs in a direct or indirect way. I mean, a respectable president, to the top bill. That is exactly what a health minister does, guided by respect and human kindness, renders less damaging service. I sincerely hope that it will be accomplished now and is really proud that we are discussing it because it is not a universal service being performed worldwide. It's not uncommon, but it's not common enough at all. A respectable president. I'd like to talk to you about other harmful measures, but I don't think we can stop here. We're familiar with the distribution of needles and syringes, and we've established it to some extent in Iceland. I've mentioned before the important work that Frú Ragnheiður is doing in this context. We have a few versions of maintenance therapy, although I feel that we can do quite a little better in that regard, without my planning to go out in that song here. And then we have the safe spending space that I'm going to talk about better, but I feel that we also need to be more effective in preventing drug overdose. Sounds like the highest. Healthcare Minister that it is working to better deliver Naloxone to users than it can be if necessary. Of course, when we talk about drug users, I hear most of the time, and when we talk about drug problems, it is called the importance of peer instruction, the importance of prevention. I'm just saying that it's extremely important. I also think that the linking of destructive resources is of utmost importance because the main cause of substance abuse is some sort of relationship between the person, whether he or she has a relationship with the whole community or disintegration of her own ability to make a connection. Finally, it is mentioned as a damaging reduction of the purity and content of the substance tests. This is something that could be used tremendously well if we were to take drugs of crime to ensure that those who choose to use drugs are not giving in to poisons but getting what they think they are buying. I also forget to mention the distribution of condoms and other tools to prevent sexually transmitted diseases. As for safe consumption space, to define it from my knowledge, refers to rooms or institutions where users can safely consume drugs under medical supervision without risk of arrest. Access to safe consumers reduces the risk of death from overdose, improves general health of drug users, improves their availability of health care, reduces the incidence of infectious diseases, and reduces crime to control drug abuse. In addition, consumption reduces the disorder that can accompany drug abuse in public. These are the old figures I have here, but there were a total of 88 safe consumption rooms in Denmark, Norway, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Canada, and Australia in 2015. Governments that open a safe space have had to undergo legal adjustments so that they can be realized, and we may be discussing the best approach to ensure this. Before my time is over, a respectable president, I'd like to discuss damage in prisons. It's a very important group of paintings, and I think we've got to keep our eyes on them next time. As many as 9 million people spend a year in prisons in the world. These figures do not take into account the millions who are in prison for a shorter period of time, e.g. Each year, some 10 million people are in the custody of Jehovah's people worldwide. According to the World Health Organization, the two major public health problems of every community within the walls of prisons, high consumption of alcohol and other drugs, and high rates of AIDS are being met by prisoners. Of course, it's an international figure I'm referring to, and I'm not promoting precise numbers in Iceland. In many places, needles and other drug abuse devices share largely the spread of AIDS and hepatitis C among freed persons. Some individuals have found that up to 12 prisoners share a drug needle. In Europe it is estimated that as many as three out of four prisoners use or are addicted to drugs. The use and efficiency of syringes is the main cause of AIDS infection in European prisons. Similarly, the population at risk of contracting AIDS and hepatitis C is also very prone to imprisonment because of its poor social status. Thus, the percentage of AIDS infected and those infected with hepatitis is much higher among imprisoned individuals than in other social groups. As a result of the high spread of sexually transmitted diseases, spiritual illness, and even tuberculosis within prisons, the health of prisoners often worsens further. In 2014, only needles and syringe distribution measures were available in eight countries' prisons. Within Europe, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, and Luxembourg offer clean needles. Also offer Iran, Moldova and Kazakhstan injection syringe service. Maintenance treatment in prison is conducted in 43 countries. All European countries outside Cyprus and Greece offer some maintenance treatment, although it should be possible that maintenance therapy is not available in all prisons, and many countries have a long range of resources to provide all available maintenance treatments. It is rare for prison authorities to distribute condoms to prisoners to prevent sexually transmitted diseases. V.E.G. A minister has begun, that I believe, historically, to the decommissioning process, but I would like to help with the importance of thinking of all the harmful and damaging measures offered to us and that we have particular attention to groups in the community that most need such assistance but can possibly seek it for ourselves. I wanted to pass it to you at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sólrhi Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir for a brilliant speech. I am agreeing with what was presented in her talk, and it certainly touched on many very important issues. On the other hand, there is one thing that I really can't help correcting the senator's case. She talked about the bill on possession of consumer dosages as Pirata. I can't say I can't say. There are two Piratars, two Conspiracies, two left greens, two Refiners, and one of the Gang of the People. At least I can say for myself that I'm not a Pirati, but that's another matter. As a result, many of those who decided to be on the case followed the work that took place on a welfare committee during the last assembly, which, as it were, took place. A senator came, even In, if I recall correctly, it was just stated, and the whole committee agreed that it was important for such a bill to appear. That attitude comes from there, just to be maintained. Although it is true that two members of Pirata are involved, I actually view this bill as a product of my work on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u103	A respectable president. I'm just happy about this correction. Maybe that's why I called this Pirata case, or I said that we were offering it, first of all, to reason. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is a Pirati and the first carrier of the bill, and it's been a bit of a custom to say, "We've presented this case. But it is true that it comes from the much work being done on a welfare committee, and it certainly is a huge joy to see how much support it is, and of course it is much bigger than just our Pirata. However, I allow myself to associate Pirata with a demolition and criminal abuse because it's something we've been talking about and fighting for ever since the institution. Let's not forget, for example. Consuming that became the document that is, in fact, the guide to consumer consumption here and also of criminal abuse. Although I'm just saying it's great that there are others out there. Senators of this matter and that we all have it together, I still think it's all right to say that the Piratars fought for crime, fought for humanitarian treatment with drug users for quite longer than this work has been going on, and we appreciate it very much that it's come to this place and that other members of Congress join us in this very important humane and needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u104	Mr. President. I truly agree with that version. A senator and I would like to remind a senator and a body of Congress that in one of my first talks, I came in to see that it is so important that we listen to one another, and it is so important that we take the pleasure of joining the people, even though they are not necessarily political movements as we do. That's great. That's right, and I think very many of those who have been in politics for some time began to realize that, gradually, other political groups begin to choose the pieces of their box, and that is certainly true among the members of the council. On the other hand, I'd like to return to the senator's office after one thing. It has only been in the discussion now in the community following contributions that people have any concern that their rural society will have trouble with this, and since that costs are not really expected, etc. I just want to hear the Senator's point of view of this, especially in view of the fact that now I have really understood the contribution of this case and the way it has been on in the community that it is at least to some extent because of a certain appeal on the part of the local community, perhaps in particular from Reykjavík, about a matter such as this one shows. I just want to know how the senator feels about this, whether the communities have to worry about it or if this is not just a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u105	A respectable president. I sure hope you're a member of the group. A senator will make sure that his community has nothing to worry about as well as to the highest level. Secretary of finance who sits with difficulty. A major senator will make sure that they do not have to worry about anything. I don't know what to say about it. I have very limited authority as a member of my body to ensure that the government of the country does not have to worry about financing. At any rate, I believe that the greater part of it has a significantly greater power to ensure that than the ones it says here. I really liked that. A senator came to see the importance of our listening to one another. I agree deeply with him, and I completely agree with him. Senator. I just want to use this opportunity to mention that in Pirata's basic policy, it is precisely stated that we are open to ideas, no matter where they may come from. This was one of the main reasons why I saw the benefit of joining Porta because I thought it was such an important idea and I felt it was so missing in Icelandic politics. I had never planned to take part in politics until it came to a political party that had very clear in its direction that he was willing to listen to ideas, no matter where they came from, and was open to them, no matter who proposed them. I just felt like it was missing. I loved being able to join a political party that in its basic policy of doing this, as well as change of mind from new data. It seemed to me that there was a ideological change in Icelandic politics. At my time anyway, 2015, when I started. I don't think things have all changed so much since then, but it's got to be said. So I just agree very much with what you're saying. Senator. We have to listen to one another, and how happy we are that we are doing so in this matter as well as in other worthwhile matters!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u106	A respectable president. I want to start my speech by thanking the highest. Minister of health again for this good bill. For some reason, she has misunderstood me, making me doubt its value, its humanity, and its damage. That's not true. I haven't. However, I watch it when we're taking such a big step that it's not just talking about harm reduction and helping the weakest of injection addicts get clean needles and help them with what they need to help with, but it's more ambitious and it's gonna keep them social, helping them with clothing and other things, so I'm sure I'm doing it. I hope now to the highest. A health minister doesn't have to take my words differently when I'm really worried that there's not been enough consultations in such a important matter, consultations with rural society, consultations with all concerned, police consultations. The police had made a comment. It was, for example. I have not consulted with a alcoholic or drug counselor since the case was referred to the government in spring. Yet, they had requested it. It also becomes evident, as we know, that U.S. drug addicts are injected with stimulating drugs, not with narcotics, such as heroin, and as is usually done in the countries we compare with. The medicines that the addicts use are methamine and such medicines. They work for less time than a dulling medicine. Then the relevant nature of the situation needs to be injected more often, sometimes every hour, communicated to me drugs and experts, and at least every two hours, which is different from what happens abroad with heroin patients. On average, they give themselves two times a day. Therefore, our users may have to stay for long periods of time close to these spaces, provided they really want and need to use the resources. So, what do we do? I think it's very special to be a lawyer. The police and State Attorney pointed out, when the bill went on our tour procedure, that there would be a clear legal authority to negotiate it. It is not clear whether the provision meets the requirements for such a warrant. It should not be an agreement when the law is being performed by the police. It's our thing to give them the frame she's supposed to work by. If we bring some special rule, we should. I believe, in this case, there is no Minister Regulation or anything that should be above the current authority, but we must establish a special protocol to keep track of this harmful decommission strategy. I believe that now in the case of the matter, we all keep up with it and we'll be careful, especially at the moment. The welfare committee. Then we're going to take the conversation naturally. I guess, at least. I have hoped that a minister will consider more carefully that we bring in the specific rules that we need in accordance with our laws to ensure that the project will be as planned and the goals will be achieved without any uncertainty. We're talking about damage. This is a huge step. I think it's the nature of it being that we're walking in that direction, as I said before, that criminal consumption rations, which are only in the absolute sense of a completely self-denial thing, I think. I just don't think it's a good idea to be chasing a person with one ion and sue him for something. It's kind of ridiculous. I believe that, and it looks like it's the best thing. A health minister and that she's heading that way, and I really hope that I'm right. I'm not gonna keep it that far, but I'd like to point out that there's also a harmful reduction in Naloxone, like the other. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir pointed earlier, and I thank her for her fine speech. I'd like to, by permission of the President, to tell you only about Naloxone. What is it? Not everyone knows what it is. V.E.G. A health minister no doubt knows that. Naloxone is a medicine, a nasal spray used to revive people who have overdosed with opioid medicines such as e.g. Oxycontin, Contalgin and Fentanyl. Today, Naloxone is available only in clinics and clinics and in medical vehicles and so on. But it says here that the people who are usually on the scene first, the ambulances and the officers at Mrs. Ragnheans, believe that they should also give the drug to the addicts and train them to use because they are often drinking the drugs together and every minute counts. Naloxone has not been considered to be a abused drug. There is nothing that should be more dangerous than exactly what the person is using, not at all, on the contrary. Here, too, we can think a little bit of the reason why we don't listen to the officers and employees of Mrs. Ragnheans who pointed out that this is important and that we may be able to save lives. First impressions are extremely important. Resuscitation with Naloxone can make a difference while the person is being placed under medical care until the ambulance arrives. I'd appreciate it if it was also a pleasure to consider. Either way, I encourage the Minister. We know that we might have certain types of damages to many others. We can protect ourselves, and we can prevent us from raising severely ill people. We could avoid having over 700 people waiting for first help in a hospital to give up. We can also put our arms around these people and give them a better life when they come out again into society, put their arms around them, and make them feel like they're worth something, that they're caught, not that they're going back to being number 703 or 704 in line. In no way do I measure this up, or do I oppose the fact that we are a victim of extreme humanity or that we have a destructive alternative. I hear, too, so I add that my rural society has now just sacrificed their hands and can't understand what is meant by putting it in their arms. They say they don't have any money to take care of it. But I also realize that this is not likely to be the big thing, because the largest core is here in the capital area. I think small rural areas in the country are generally not in the position of having to think about such things, and if so, I believe that the highest. A health minister will accept it only when it comes to it and process it. That's what the game's made for. In any case, I just sent a smile and a smile to the top. A health minister and just say thank you again, and I'm certainly not against this, even though I'm trying to be reasonable and say, "If we're doing this, do it properly so that it's over and there's no way of making any noise in it. '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u107	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill to correct a change in drug and drug law, with subsequent changes, in the matter of consumption. I would like to make it clear that I support this matter immediately and that I was one of the health committees who helped get it together. It must be made clear, too, that there was trouble. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who started these matters originally. We have to look at this from the point of view that we are breaking a sheet of paper. We're going out of the comfortable box we've been packing ourselves into, watching users of drugs as criminals. It tells itself that we're talking in many cases about sick people, very sick people, and we're supposed to treat them by helping them in every possible way. One of them is to make a lot of consumption space and areas around them where you may have the doses you need to consume on that day. I realize as an old police officer to a few years ago, this was a problem when I was a policeman a few decades ago, but I have become a major problem today. Unfortunately, it seems that there is always the wrong end of the situation because the police problem is in most cases the addicts themselves rather than those who are employed by smuggling the materials into the country and making money. By making a lot of consumption space, they will likely disappear when needles are found on the property of a children's house or in school. Even in parks, needles have been asked, and children have been exposed to them. Since this is a serious matter, it is very good for the person to get a vacancy, get clean needles, get all the help, and even make sure that he or she has the right to help in their illness. But there is something very serious that we often forget, these are people's children, these are relatives and aunts and siblings. This disease is not impartial in any way. Nobody knows who gets into being on that side of the table, and I guess nobody wants to. I have at least a few minutes. not a single person who would like to be in this position. That's why it's so urgent to deal with and break up this system. We've been stuck in the same bike for so long, it's time to do something about it. It sucks to know that individuals have been in a completely unacceptable position in an unacceptable home where they have taken an overdose and no one to catch it, no one to help them. That is an unacceptable situation. It is a terrible situation, too, for mothers and fathers of these individuals to know that their child had to face such a situation. That is why it is so urgent that we make sure that these things change. I am absolutely convinced that we too must change the law on these matters. We have to make sure that consumer doses are not punished. We must change their laws and do so right away because otherwise we will always find ourselves in trouble. There will be conflicts, and we should immediately prevent them. We have nothing to ask the police to close their eyes. We should not ask her to look in another direction. We're just supposed to make sure that she doesn't have to look this way and can focus on what she's supposed to be doing, to stop the import, to stop the person who's making money on these people, who's one of the worst things in the world, that they're out there, that they're out there, willing to do anything to heal in any situation. I support this bill, and I'd also like to point out that when it goes to the welfare committee, we have to make sure that everyone who wants to learn about it, make their comments, and that all the counselors who know about such situations, such as the U.S.A. and others, will be consulted. I'm sure they'll put their money on the balances. I say we take all the indications, and I trust a welfare committee just to finish this case and make a great case out of the Committee so we can start a new chapter on this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u108	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in drug and drug law that has been described in daily terms as the consumption bill and is now being passed, i.e. a case of this kind, a second of the highest. Secretary of health. The matter has changed considerably and greatly. Officers at the highest. Clearly, a minister has worked hard to respond to comments presented in the bill's last session for the council, and that's fine. A case of this kind is not to appear for the first time in Iceland, and as was shown in my exchange of words. paritaprevir The issues of Sunna Ævarsdóttir, a senator of Porta, have been in the discussion for a long time, with Porta's members touching them more than once and more than twice. Then it's time to assume that other political groups, including the U.S. The left movement, the green offer, has concluded on these factors, in order to produce consumption doses of crime and the importance of the way to address the drug problems in the community, does not go through punishing the consumers first or the users, but shifts to other forms of punishment. There's been a little debate in the community, as I only came in earlier, on the input of the bill, and there's been some misunderstanding in my mind that we're about to start some sort of resource that will even be very widely available in the country and in many rural communities, etc. Of course not, or we do at least not expected. If we look at what we see in this bill's report, we will be in Denmark, which has a population of 6◯7 million people, fired five consumers. With a simple statism, you might say that it would be a good idea to think that such a situation would be needed in Iceland. But it's just as if there are so many other things in human society that if we are to stand up as a nation among the nations, we have to offer the characteristics of a proper welfare society, which the ideal welfare society offers, including some such resources as this. Of course, while it is not a particular joy to have to offer such a plan, it is of great importance. That's why I'm celebrating the bill. During our last session, only a discussion of police authority was made and how to deal with in the case of consumers, i.e. if the police know that a person has a drug. When I'm reading the bill, I can at least... I accept the current device, i.e. that the police concerned are being dealt with during their previous bill work. However, I am quite ready to do so, and will, of course, do so, listening to the comments that may be made about this. The equipment here is not exactly what the police suggested, if I recall correctly, but I think it should be done, and then it is just one of the things we're going to discuss in the activities of the Committee whether it is possible to interlock those points further. Similarly, in this bill there is no specific reference to health care professionals who were on a previous bill, i.e. of Law No. 34/2012, according to the committee discussion, and in fact it has also been identified by the Committee's staff, that of course it does not have to be specifically stated that health care professionals and health laws generally apply. But I'm just thinking that maybe it would be okay to have these references, to make them even more meaningful. But I believe with this bill and, indeed, with the bill that has been named in the topic of possession consumption doses, we are taking a very important step in stopping the focus on punishment or action, let's say, because of the social drug use of drugs, against users. We are holding our place as a community seriously that we are expected to care for all the people, and we are to care for them on their terms as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u109	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in drug and drug law, No. 65/1970, with subsequent changes, consumption space, from health care minister. I'd like to accept the final words of the final speaker and say that I may not be able to celebrate this matter, but it is an important step toward viewing the subject as illegal. So it is a humanitarian bill, and in that respect I can rejoice, even though the occasion is not for joy, i.e. The reality that we are in with this group of subjects. I come up here too because of what I'm doing. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, who is on the welfare committee, could not attend this discussion and had some questions that I would drop. The answers to some now appear, such as by the cost of the side or by the societies, the state, and whether more rural areas are going into it or something like that. But it's the natural city of Reykjavík, which is the biggest area in the world. I thought the minister would answer in such a way that it was up to 50 million from the state that she saw to it that the business would be guaranteed, at least for the first year. Then there was another matter of consumption, how it will be made. It's not quite clear how that is going to be done. We've been talking about whether it was in the shape of a car, being a car. People have wondered that there could be 1,25, or 35 individuals of this group who would benefit from it. Then it would be possible to be a car, and it might also be possible to go to the nearby communities if it was called in. Also, there was a question about the police and what police presence had been at this job. It focuses mainly on the source that is being prepared to deal with these situations, not to arrest humans when they are on the road to consumption. So that is really the answer to that question, not that they turn the blind eye toward the case, but that they have the authority to allow it to continue. As people may have noticed, the person standing here was a very interested person in the drug problem and the drinking problem, and I put it under the same hat in my mind, the problem of those who become addicted. Must be 100% sure that those who have come to this place of drug abuse have become highly dependent on drugs, and as a result, as shown in the bill, have become opinionated in the community. These are people who do not have beds or anything in the environment that can be considered normal life. This is our problem in life on earth's circle of confusion, dealing with the enemy of addiction, and that we should be dealing with the fact that the underworld is bound up with the law of these substances. I've often talked about how we've experienced since 1930 to ban alcohol in the world, and then the underworld developed into a crime that no one is proud to have participated in at that time. I have to say just as it is for me to listen with an open ear to the matter when they were in here at the council, and I first came in as a backup. At that time, Piranar's nominees gave them the language, and I was very pleased with the discussion and the opening of it. I remember that then a health minister took a rather good look at the idea of criminal abuse that has since not occurred. The other day, when I was speaking, I doubted that this could lead to the results of a seeding, especially in the light of the recent development. What I may not have been so clear about is that if we were talking about consumption dosages and otherwise it was illegal, would it not be just the people who shop in the underworld would cover it all in their rations? Like the substances now produced that kill people with just one dose, perhaps look innocent in the palm of their hands. This is what I do during this discussion, in brief. I would have liked to see the highest, too. Health Ministers show us the treatments we live in, and I can't give more attention than help to deal better with what they're dealing with. I've talked about it here in the past few months, and there's more to life than life. Today, there is no sooner a flood of drugs. For some reason, those who are smuggling them into the country are much better able to get it here, and that's a lot of concern. As a result, the cost has fallen on the streets. I just heard in the daytime that some equipment, no matter how it is prepared, that transfuses and other such imports, to see if there is any illegal material inside that board, has been broken. That thing hasn't been okay for a while. I don't sell it any more than I bought it, but that's what I heard. This is naturally very serious if a person can be smuggling in large quantities of drugs in the covert of a device that is supposed to perspire a container and so on in the streets. I mentioned the underworld and quoted Prohibition in 1920,1930. I mentioned it in a talk the other day when we were discussing the consumer dose whether the world's rulers could not arrange a meeting in which people would try to put the cards on the table and control their advice on how to approach this problem on a universal scale. It is very difficult for one country to begin to stand out as different and make such material legal. It doesn't make sense to me. That would have to be a struggle. Perhaps it might be in some form, as we begin to discuss the climate problem and such things, since the nations concluded that they were extremely concerned about climate matters and wanted to do something about them and signed an agreement that we know in that relationship. It is a question of whether such a situation could be established and that the nations of the world would sign such a agreement. We must not lose this war. I think it's a serious matter that we don't have time to hang on to it. We need to find some ways. I think the nations of the world have to stick together to find a way that is worthwhile. I've been watching a bit, actually, I haven't had any new news about how they're doing in the United States. There were, I believe, mostly cannabis, in most states of the United States. This is the big thing that I think we have to talk about globally, not every nation on our own. It's bad for every country, more than anything we compare ourselves to. I think this case is a big step forward and will monitor it. There was one more question, but I sort of got the answer to her earlier. She was in touch with her 18 - year - old age and why not lower, since, of course, youths under 18 are also addicted to drug addicts, as sad as they are. But then it's the natural law age, and it would be finished, and I got divorced with the Children's Health Department, and I can totally buy that answer. But I'm not going to have this any further now, because time is running out. I'll be watching every wind out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u110	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm a little confused about what I'm thinking. Senator. I can't see better than that. The senator supports this bill, and it's good, because it's a very good bill and it's gonna be working more on the council. People can constantly reason on various developments, especially in the context of criminal abuse, i.e. to stop punishing drug addicts for drug abuse, legally for the possession of drugs for personal use. What I don't realize, however, is how it works. A senator may be in favor of this bill, but he may object to the grounds for his opposition to criminal abuse in his speech. Now it may be that someone is in favor of this matter, but against crime for some other reason I have not studied but haven't. A senator spoke of his doubts as achieving a goal of crime. I'm puzzled because my goal in crime is crime - threatening. That taking drugs - or technically taking drugs legally - is using illegal drugs for personal use, will no longer be punished. Let's make things very simple. The world isn't that simple, but it's super simple just for fun. For example, there are two types of drug abusers: business users who have problems with their consumption and drug abusers who do not have problems with their consumption. Suppose a drug addict does not have a problem with his ingestion. Then you wonder: " What are they punishing? What has the person done to one or the other? It is wrong to punish that person simply for the same reason that it is wrong to punish people who have done nothing wrong. It's simple. Drug abusers who then have problems - punishing them is morally out in the field, in my opinion. I don't quite understand what's going on. A senator concludes that this bill is an important and good step in which we want to be good, not mean to people who have problems with their consumption at the same time when they are opposed to criminal abuse. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. He said he was confused. We're talking about illegal consumption doses, aren't we, in the language that the Pirantar was moving? That is why I said earlier that other doses or more amounts would be illegal. So, then, will not the merchants of the underworld just put the materials in a dose of ▪ consumption and meet these barriers in this way? Similarly, I mentioned an increase in the number of substances that are going on. Some are killed by a single dose. The senator also said that not everyone would be dependent. That's a lot to do. It's such a rule that about 20% of those who become addicts. At any rate, the alcohol does, and I think that is also the case with other drugs. Today, most people who are injecting have become dependent. I hope this is crazy or confused, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u112	A respectable president. The senator who stands here is more confused than ever before. First of all, I'd like to make it clear that there's a whole lot of exposure to addictive drugs. Of course, alcohol is drugs and drugs, as is the case unless it has special social, legal, and cultural recognition and is allowed to be drug free. Which is amazing in view of its destructiveness, in view of the destruction of many other illicit drugs. But there is another discussion. Hv. One Christian noted that by making consumer doses penniless, drug dealers are in danger of selling drugs. I don't know any better than they already do. I can't imagine the alleged change in sales dose being reduced would be a bad trend. It would probably be harder to get more amounts out. It would likely be more expensive to sell drugs, I would be quick to hold. At least I can't see how it justifies the punishment of drug addicts. It is inevitable that consumer doses will be punished. We cannot be punished for the use of consumers to catch the criminals, the salesmen, without punishing them too for the use of such portions. That, a respectable president, I just think it's a very bad mollusk. I don't think that makes sense. Except in one case. It's if we're at war. In war, communities and individuals justify all kinds of conduct that they would never justify otherwise. Taking a weapon and killing other people in as much quantity as you can. Such madness, a respectable president, is engaged in war because at war people develop the spirit of being willing to be disgusting to one another. That is why we are opposed to war and do not want it to happen. That's why I want to ask you why. Also, a senator on what war he's about when he says, by permission of a president: ◯ We must not lose this war. [[The president calls.]] What war? If we're at war, a respectable president, it's lost, the drugs won.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I can't figure it out, did the senator mean the war was lost? When I said we were at war, I meant we're at war with the addiction. We're at war with a double problem. In my speech earlier, I said that I agree with the basic concept that the senator and his party have been giving, but I doubted today that this would be a step that would benefit us. That's why I started talking about the big movie, talking to people from abroad, talking about interviews. So I hope the Senator doesn't misunderstand me, so I disagree that we do our best. But it's gonna take care of the end of it. You can't be just trying to fail. But I have to admit, I'm kind of happy after having received this answer, and I regret that I'm opposed to the fact that we're dealing with these issues. It's just not my meaning at all. And the war isn't lost. All we have to do is keep fighting and start the next battle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u114	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate the fact that this case has come up with a good councilmen's custom. I first state that I will not extend the discussion very much; we will see if I am a member of Congress. There's one thing I have to say, because the matter was being discussed earlier and I have a duty to keep it in the historical context, which is the origin of the discussion here today. This is a bill of the highest order. Secretary of health, it comes from there. It comes from there, even. Because a report was submitted by a group of members who were established at their time by other people. In fact, the person standing here was a member of that working group, thanks to the time being the highest. Minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. This group was established because the Council agreed to conclude that a team of workers would be set up following a Senate resolution made by Pirates following a policy proposed by the Piranians in a campaign. That was Pirata's campaign in 2013. I don't say this in order to take anything away from others because I'm very happy to see how much our spirituality is, how few exceptions are there that people support this harmful, humanitarian approach to drugs. That's why it's one of the things I know, as I said in the 2013 campaign, all we need to do is talk about it. This is one of the classes that will be left behind in society because society is fearful and angry. It's in a state of agitation, even some sort of shock, e.g. After a new drug comes to the market, many young people take away from us. In such an environment, it is sometimes forgotten to think things through, and wrong decisions are made. During the discussion, a firm calm and firm war - minded approach that I may take a little more into the following, preventing careful and objective discussions based on facts and reasoning. Happily, though, at times people who once did not necessarily agree, or at least do not believe, may find the same conclusion. That's the case here, and that's what I see in this bill. Of course, there are some tools and practices that I actually expect to be done on both sides. ... thewelfare board and here at the Senate Hall. But what a joy it is to know how much harmony exists among the majority of members of Congress who talk about this and are interested in the subject that it is positive to treat people well, even when using drugs! This is a fundamental step to counteract the power of war that I and another wave have to work against. A senator spoke briefly here just a few minutes ago. According to this, there must also be one thing about this bill, and that is the context of what is called criminal debate. This bill is an example of harmful reductions, and just to keep the terms straight, it is not all destructive, reducing the negative consequences of drug abuse. Slice reduction is a form of ideologies. It means that it is not your first goal to reduce the consumption of drugs by the person who consumes it. That is not our first objective and, in fact, not necessarily a goal. The goal is to reduce the damage to drugs. It's number one, two and three. If the damage doesn't happen, there's nothing wrong with using drugs. The reality is not quite so that thousands of people can take drugs that are at risk without causing harm. That's what it says. But the way the authorities approach the drug problem is important. It matters that it is not made from that illusion, I'd like to say, someday we'll live in a drug-free society. It's a little boring secret that I know that people don't like to hear, and it's not fun to have to say that society has shown no interest in getting high. They have shown no interest in it, no one, never at all. Not now, and in my opinion, it will never happen. For the same reason that society has shown no interest in becoming faithless. Indiscriminate society, there is no more drug use. It means away with the booze. Somebody sees what they're doing. A senator? No, of course not. Why not? Because we all know, we all see that whether we like it or not, and in spite of all damage, adults want to use drugs of some kind in ways and for some reason, and sometimes with negative results for the individual and society all. This fact does not have to be appreciated, but we need to be on the same page that it is, indeed, a fact. People have this amazing idea. A person of the animal species homo sapiens is so amazing that she can say to herself and to the rest of the world: I own this body, I own this brain, I own this mind, I own this heart, and I have this soul - and I do what I want to do. We accept this now when it is time for sexual behavior to begin, sooner or later. We accept this too when it comes to religion, even though it has not been so undisputed throughout history, as the story clearly shows, especially in the portion of it that is written in blood. But this is something we should be absolutely clear about. People control what they do with their own body, they merely control it. Even if the community is not exactly on the same page there, even if people oppose it, even if the greater portion is highly opposed, as it has already been to some drugs, most drugs, except alcohol for some reason, it is the same as individuals think, even if they are not necessarily provoking it. I'll tell you what. The members of this room and people who listen at home: Who decides what drugs you're going to take? It's you. You decide. We're not here, and neither are the cops. It's each of us. That's the way it is, and that's how it's supposed to be in a free society. That means we have to respect this. We do not need to like it. We do not have to agree with people. We need not feel comfortable in knowing that others believe something that we feel is mere nonsense. We don't have to be cool with that. All we need is respect for people's rights to differ from their faith. The choice of health is of no concern to us, but we must show respect for people's rights to make a decision for ourselves. And it's just the same with drugs. There's nothing different with drugs. That's how people feel, whether they like it or not, and that's why society doesn't want to get high. Nothing wants to go on forever. Nothing wants to be infinite healthy. There's nothing they want to be without faith. They don't even want to be right all the time. We're not that kind of person, we're not that kind of community. We are not that kind of people. In view of this, we need to ask ourselves as lawgivers: Okay, everything fine. Or, not everything that's good, but it's the way it is. How will we react? What is our responsibility to adjust the legal environment so that even now things are getting better despite this accursed fact that it may be? It is by drawing close to things with a human spirit, with tolerance, and with determination to treat people who use drugs, whether they are in trouble with their consumption or not. It's like I went over a little bit in answer to what. A senator of earlier times is able to simplify things and divide drug addicts into two categories. Of course, drug users are as diverse as any other group, but if we oversimplified things, we can say that there are drug users who are having problems with their consumption and drug abusers who are not having problems with their consumption. No matter what group you look at, it's not logical, not human, and not true - it's just not moralally right, a respectable president - to punish these groups, either. The connection of criminal abuse to this bill may be shown best in one paragraph of the bill, which discusses the local authority to negotiate with the police to leave drug users alone in certain areas. There's a very important law in the bill, and I hope it will at least achieve the goal of the bill, even though it's not a delinquency in all the glory I'd like to see it. That's where the connection is. Here, we face a loss of humanity and understanding and tolerance for being different and making different decisions, and sometimes we make foolish decisions, even the one standing here, and more than once, as people know. It remains that we are making a specific area - the same time we have decided not to use drugs, not to use drugs - where drugs can still be used. We will if we are going to show compassion, if we are to show understanding, and if we are to do good to this group. I think this bill is very much a reflection of the need for criminal abuse. Now there's another bill for the council, which I don't know if you're supposed to call the Pirates, and the Piranians aren't on top of it, as the rest of the story has been. Councilmen who are referred to and suggested by a criminal court of law. I see a wide link between these two cases for the reasons I've tore up here, but I would say that it takes even more conversation and more time to convince everyone here at the council about the discretion and the importance of criminal debates. But this case, alone, is an amazing step of progress, and I welcome it, and no matter what changes come into being made in the treatment of the council, it is also a joy to see it exert itself more fully, by the government, with the hope in the heart and sincere faith that it will be approved. It is a cause for rejoicing, a respectable president, and should become to us, who in November may at times become filled with pessimism that this council can certainly do spectacular things from time to time. If I could choose one subject at this council, it would probably be this bill, but also the one I mentioned earlier. I'm really celebrating, and thank you very much. A health minister for volunteering. I also thank the U.S. Congress and maybe this way for a change in the way I've been doing this conversation in the last few years, because we've listened to one another, for showing that people are open to change, for being open to doing things differently, but it may seem that in the most emotional sense, when the greatest shock comes. These issues are fundamental to things that are next to us when we lose people, even young people in the prime of life, because of drug abuse. It is natural for us to feel angry and hurt when we witness such things. But it is as one said in the assembly of his time, and it was testified to by a priest, saying, "When we go into action, we will not be despised of evil."
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u115	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for the discussion on this subject, and especially very well prepared. I would like to agree with what has been presented here in the case of various members of Congress that this is actually a much larger issue than it looks like. This is a case of one article, a change in drug and drug laws, and 2 pars. says: "This law already comes into force. It's not much, but it's a big story. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigurður apostle Páll Jónsson, who spoke with the spirit of the matter in his talk, expressed the need for international counsel when we are talking about such a big deal. Then I'd like to say that, fortunately, we're hiring our global advice on that exact matter, i.e. both ideologies and criminal abuse. It is a global debate that is growing worldwide from year to year. If we talk primarily of harmful reductions, there are reports from the World Health Organization that have to do with the matter and the importance of looking to those who are using drugs rather than to punish them. The World Health Organization also helps us by putting this into even greater context, in connection with the United Nations World Goals, saying that the third goal of health and well - being, and the 16th, which is about peace and justice, is incarcerating ideologies. From where this ideologies spring, it is a matter of unbiased humanity, not of delinquency and decisions as to what is considered acceptable behavior and what is not. Scotage reduction of the roots of the public health vision, i.e. that we would primarily like to reduce the social and physical and health effects of various types of behavior, various choices, or groups when it comes to life - style or lifestyle. It also requires community tolerance for behavior that, in some context, is not acceptable, that society says: It's all underneath when we're talking about improving feelings and prolonging life. It is not just those who practice the ways of life that are pleasing to us. How important it is that we have that thought! But there are other factors. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said that he would like to see the criminal crisis on this traffic and drive. The welfare committee is likely to also consider this matter. There are other factors to address, as it were, the loss of an umbrella to form the vital debate. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir only touched, which is destroying local images, i.e. ... gofrom talking about a group of drug users in one way or another, whether by injection or by other means, in one label, talking about us and then them. It is part of the detoxification theory to stop it because it applies to the group using such drugs as other groups, which, as stated in the bill, are not to be discussed in their affairs without being in control. All this political and social separation leads to wrong results. By having conversations and conversations with those who choose that life - style or who were drawn into it at some point, wanting to go out of it, we are reaching a better conclusion as to the type of service to that group and to those individuals. Hv. paritaprevir Thorhild Sunna Ævarsdóttir mentioned the Norwegian search for the answer to the big consumer dose question. You're right. A senator mentioned, the Norwegian haven't given up yet. But they're in the same dilemma we are. This too has been an indication of how we should do so. Should we have a list of certain material? What standards would be used there? Or should we simply, like a what? A senator mentioned, to make courts decide this at any given time? Would we be on a better path if we took some such a route that some countries around us have taken, that it is a mutual understanding of local society and police in place that those who take a dose for daily use are protected from intervention? It is enormously complex because when is something forbidden and when is it not? The police have made comments on this discussion, but they have also said that this needs to be prepared safely. I don't want to give up on that because we're not alone, we're not an island trying this in Iceland. This has been done by the nations, and it has been successful. Most important of all, consumer activity shows respect and saves lives. That's basic. If saving lives isn't the task of a healthy community, I don't know who to do it. I'd like to come over to a few things that came up in the discussion, such as. The discussion of Naloxone as a boy. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir mentioned. The first bill, which was being discussed at the time. The report stated that the staff would be taught to use Naloxone for overdose. In the current bill, there are many people who use drugs for addiction and drugs, since these may include other types of drugs. Naloxone, or other similar substances, is not dangerous. There is a transient effect on the bridge of the gap until an ambulance arrives if used outside the hospital. This medicine is currently authorised in your country but has not been marketed. It is due in the months ahead, in order to inform the council. I'd also like to mention it as a dog. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson mentioned people under 18 years of age. We see to it that these people should be taken by advisers in consumers. We expect workers in the consumer environment to be both health - trained people and people who are more closely linked to community services. We assume that the advice should be taken by people, but we must also remember that the child protection laws always apply. They also apply there. That means everyone's announcements are open and should be respected. We're in a hurry. Based on Mrs. Ragnhei's findings, it is better to counsel the person than to put them at risk by injecting oneself outside the drinking room. This, of course, is opinion and is seen from different sides, and the experience is likely to reveal it. This too has been discussed with the injection boxes and clean equipment. Now it's like this is actually only delivered at the scene of Frú Ragnheiður. These boxes are not being delivered at the pharmacy or at clinics, as if I would have good reason to do so. There is something wrong with our reaching that goal and that conclusion. On the other hand, the used equipment, such as a pair of syringes, is taken in a bottle or some of these, so to speak, in the pharmacy. We have information that there is a means to be used. Of course, there is an enormous need for security in this general issue. A respectable president. I'm not going to have my final talk longer than I can see that there are some who would like to answer me in it. But I still want to say here that I agree with the viewpoints that have shown that this is an important step. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the politicians who had the courage to bring this up in their time, both the Pirates, who have raised it at the Council and the Supreme Court. current marine and agricultural minister and then health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, for having had the courage to grab that ball and continue working because people who have the courage not only to set up issues but also to listen and continue to do things. I'd like to say that ideologies of vandalism had to strike the Icelandic Parliament's shores at some point. This had to happen sometime because it is part of what marks a global discussion of that subject. However, I'd like to say that it happened at exactly this point and with this lead, it was the government body that did it and the government minister at the time that was moving forward. It did, I believe, that it seems to me that we have a rather historic agreement that this is a vital and good case that at some other time might be a matter that could be handled. It seems to me that I'm going to make a good deal of peace in building a legitimate and well - equipped system that is marked by humanity and is designed to show respect for people and save lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u116	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for a good discussion and a good final talk on this matter. I wanted to ask you two questions in my answers. First of all, Naloxone. I can hear the highest. Minister says it's to get it into more accessible shapes. Now I do not know properly how to manage this, whether this will be a prescription for medical treatment or whether the bioavailability will be general and good and simple for users and their caregivers to approach the material. It is quite clear that e.g. it is estimated in Scotland that it has been successful to prevent at least 500 deaths caused by overdose result from taking the Naloxone home of a campaign that was started in that country where the Scottish public received access to Naloxone and training in its use. Besides Scotland, the availability of Naloxone is fairly good in 30 U.S. states, although several cities of Canada and also in Australia. Within Europe, however, the bioavailability of the public to Naloxone is very limited. We still know that it can save lives. It can really make a difference when it comes to overdose, so I wanted to use this first answer to ask about it. Is it generally available, or needs a prescription, or will it even be done by a healthcare professional?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As observed in my final talk earlier, Naloxone is a date of expanded access and is authorised but has not been marketed. It is not established based on prescription requirements. But it is my position that the bioavailability should be as good as possible in view of the fact that there is no dangerous drug, and we have seen and heard and are assured that Naloxone, which is given without hesitation, is able to save lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u118	A respectable president. We've been discussing a great deal of damage in this whole discussion, and this is, of course, a decomposition here. Then I wanted to ask for communication with the highest. Minister of vandalism to other drug users, but perhaps those who have come to need consumers. It may be noted that while individuals in general do not have a problem with drugs - something incredible but true is only true of a lot of people who use drugs in Iceland today - accidents, violence and other activities that may require the assistance of police, medical or health professionals. We know that because alcohol consumption is illegal, but not illegal, people may be reluctant to seek the assistance of police, health care professionals, or ambulances, on e.g. Music celebrations and so on. I count at least That the fear will disappear to a large extent because health professionals and the police are no longer individuals who might in one way or another be unable to look for help after being subjected to violence, overdose, or anything that might have happened. By the way, I just want to ask the highest. Minister: Does she also feel that it is important to consider this group that is often young people who may lose some weight in order to increase their safety by simply delinquency the entire line?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u119	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator's inquiry. As mentioned in my final talk, there are several actions that are subject to ideologies, as is the case with this particular assembly case as discussed here. They also take more radical steps, such as that. A senator mentions. They are not discussed in the following issue. However, I would like to say that as soon as we present a case here on the council and make it that the law that I want to see us do, we are also moving the discussion in the community from ideologies to ideologies. When the ideologies are beginning to dominate the law and praise, it is true that they are, not for punishment, but for law enforcement or health care. I believe that ideologies need to be accessed to much more churches in society and that this case is the first step than an important step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u120	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of police law, No. 90/1996. Six. The members of the council are with me on this bill, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Bergþór Ólason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunsulsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Þýdur Sæmundsson. The bill suggests 31. The current police law will be removed, but the headline of this article forbids strikes, and this article states: ▪ Police officials must not strike or participate in a strike. So the bill goes on to say that police officers will be allowed to strike again, thus restoring their right to strike. The same bill was first brought back to the 144th Council, again at the 145th and last Parliament, because 149. I moved the matter again and returned here. In 2014, at the 144th legislature, the hearing was measured, and it went to the General and Education Committee that sent it out for review. It's good to tell you that all the eight stories received were positive for the bill, which were from the National Association of Police Officers, National Police Services, National Association of the Colleges, the Alliance of State and Towns, the Eyjafjörður Police Association, the Icelandic Human Rights Office, and the Tolverage Association of Iceland. In my opinion, it is as urgent now as when the bill was first delivered in the fall of 2014 that police would regain their right to obtain autopsies with a strike, if necessary. The police'right to strike was canceled by law No. 82/1986 who included changes in existing police law. Until then, police officers had the right to strike, even as other classes within the Union of the People's Reich, and with the premonition that the necessary security was to be maintained during a strike, as was the 26th grade. enumeration of BSRB protocols, No. 29/1976. At that time, a new agreement by government officials was passed in the dough, but up to that time, the civil strike rights of public employees had been in the hands of the overall BSRB, but it was now clear to the right to the right to leave the BSRB to individual partners. The unions that had an uncircumcised strike right were shown to be strengthened as units. The health and safety groups had lived under a limited strike trial and were not considered to be comparable to the fact that their rights were being cleared by the supposed law. Most of them indicated that the police strike rights would be completely removed. Their right to strike was that the entire organization could prove to be a failure in the event of a conflict. On the other hand, it was hardly felt that a force for civil rights would become a powerful tool when police officers were on their own and that it would be wise to try to find another way that would match the union's terms. In the opinion of the president, Mrs. President, to trade strike rights and insurance insurance, and to get this idea quite a part of the police, many believe that their duties to the government and the same as the citizens would be so rich that a strike as if it were revealed in its most extreme form would be virtually impossible. As a part of an agreement between the Police National Association and the Secretary of finance on July 5, 1986. In a book on the agreement, there was a petition to abort a strike rights but instead a police officer should receive so-called insurance. The insurance policy was to be based on the basis of four designated work groups, including the average increase in pay as did these control groups. The companies involved were the BSRB, the Alliance of college-educated government employees, the Union of Icelandic bankmen and the Union of Teachers. The treaty was confirmed by a close majority of the total pay paid by police officers. From the time of the above agreements, there were conflicting opinions about its implementation between policemen and the State. The calculation of insurance was not done during the first few years, and police made repeated comments about this. After much pressure on them, Iceland's Haggis carried out a calculated calculation in 1988 to request a financial minister. The meeting pressure had laid down the possibility to reevaluate the calculations on the National Association of Police Officers, but this was not really the case. The EU believed that by this time the 1986 collective agreements of the Treaty were broken and desired. ... aftera strike -- but in vain. Madam President. In 2001, the predefined insurance policy was bought out of the agreement, but instead of its own so - called legal system, the National Association of Officers doubles, since 2008, have taken their fight. On both occasions, it can be stated that despite the regulations that are found in the collective agreement of the European Union, there was no real success in the duplicity of the two pieces. It referred to the economic situation following the collapse and other labour agreements. Hence, police officials believe that they did not keep their foolish position from being taken away by their right to strike. Policemen have ended up with no real resources to resort, to force their partners into the real solutions of their jaws, such as. to provide a overtime ban, which is part of the strike-out rights weapon of the employee movement. Thus, it has been repeated since the execution of the strike court to make collective agreements with the police. There seems to be no match for them to negotiate a dresser contract with a class that has nothing else to do about improvement in their terms than to speak and write articles in the media. In the past, it may be possible that even today an unpublished book that was attached to a collective agreement four years ago is about special payment for police officers because of the increased responsibility laid on the profession by increasing firearm training and increasing access to the materials that have been changed from the past. It is such a hurry to negotiate with a class that has not had the strike weapon for many years. Madam President. For a long time, police unions have tried to achieve blocs for police officers with little success. In view of this, police officers have regressed from the principal classes in the earlier agreement that included the execution of the strike court. One of its reasons is undoubtedly the fact that police officers cannot resort to the relief order of the strike trial, as well as other social classes, did not reach a satisfactory conclusion in the integrity of the class. It seems that the arrangement instituted when the police strike was removed was never properly followed. In the case of police officers, it has been shown that the ban on the strike court has promoted the reimbursement of parties to collective agreements and is therefore essential to the restoration of the rights. The police are doing a very important work on national security. It seems that such a special arrangement works against a police class in the matter rather than contribute to greater rights because of the importance of their community activities. The nature of the situation according to the police strike rights would depend on the fact that there will always be a need for emergency and security services. Hence, the police strike rights would present considerable limits. Nevertheless, the number of jobs within the police that could be canceled would be deemed necessary to support the claims of reform. In recent years the police'national relationship has emphasized the strike rights in a struggle, and various international police communities have concluded that they do. The police'work environment has undergone significant changes over the years, with increasing demands for police officers. These include a number of technologies that the police have taken up in solving their assignments and, like, because crime has become more and more complex in recent years. Has this led to the rapidly developing of police work in recent years and decades? With law No. 61/2016 was a university police school and is now a two - year - old diplomat at a university that was previously a year's high school in the state's high school. In other words, increased demands for the police work were especially reflected in these changes. Madam President. It is important that police officials will be able to collect a pair of dress reforms in the same way as other classes, but they do not have to sit behind the other classes while their work becomes more complex, harder, and demands for policemen are increasing, both their education, their instruments and their skills in general, their technical and even less so, in dealing with citizens, while the composition of citizens has changed from being extremely homologous to becoming more international, both growing with a different background than that of the country. Thus, police officers will be created as a prerogative agreement with their spokesmen, who can provide reasonable terms for them in their working environment. The bill suggests that the police strike rights will be restored by a change in police law, No. 90/1996, on the way to 31. Their laws will be canceled. It is suggested that the bill be after the discussions referred to the General and Education Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u121	A respectable president. I just wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and express support for it. It was first proposed to the 144th Congress, such as the year 144 C.E. A senator went over, then from the branch office of the Left Council, a year later it was submitted by a representative of the VG, and in fact, the person represented here was a member of the Council of the Middle Party. I would especially like to call attention to what is stated in the information of Iceland's Human Rights Office in the treatment of the matter at the 144th Parliament, which says, by permission of the president: Iceland's Human Rights Office supports the bill, and it agrees with the 74th chapter of freedom of society. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/194, 11. The European Convention of Human Rights, Article 22. The International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, as well as Article 8. The International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights, as well as specifically specify the strike right. This is not a simple question as to whether a policeman's right to strike is appropriate. It is also about whether we will actually maintain the situation that police officers are specifically deprived of one of the rights of society freedom. I don't think there's just enough grounds if the strike right is to be present for castes that carry out important duties. Of course, we also need to keep in mind, such as why. A senator went over just a few moments ago, but he is expected to have certain minimal security facilities, as you always see in the background when this issue comes into play. There's something else I would especially like to mention here because the man and other members of his council have been fighting for independent surveillance of police activities and perhaps experience some of the Pirate officers somehow in front of the interests of police officers, but that is contrary. Our ambition to be fully respected by the civil rights of the public is certainly not based on the fact that there are some social institutions, such as the police, who are cruel to people or by nature to violate people's civil rights. It's not like that. Policemen are ordinary people with a certain type of job, and such fine people depend on the same limitations as the rest of us. People make mistakes, and at times they do not receive sufficient guidance, or they do not have the equipment or circumstances they need to carry out their roles in the way that you would like at the General Assembly. Part of it is certainly a lack of independent police surveillance, but part of it is also poor terms, small ones, training, historical history at all, and much more in the way that tortures the police and adversely affects the rights of the citizens. It seems to itself that a badly paid policeman needs another incentive to do his job with enthusiasm and ambition if he intends to be a police officer for a long time rather than one who is well paid. Even if you never object that a policeman had such ambition, we should still be able to hold the police so that police officers are only reasonably at peace with their share. I don't see that they can be that way, considering the current situation, especially because of the low-paying conditions in general, I feel that there is little understanding that in order for the police to do their job without the methods we would like to avoid, there must be enough of the police and they need to be on a good enough salary. They must experience respect in their work, and pride and the right to strike are inevitable. If police officers are not well - paying, if their circumstances are not well - off, it will not only affect their individual interests but also affect the work of police in general, just as it is anywhere else, and should not surprise anyone. So it is, if we want something to work well, we need to show respect for the money that is properly financed, which means a decent salary for proper jobs. Besides the fact that the police work is a very thankless job. I've had to listen to some thistles about what I'll totally listen to over and over if necessary, over the years being constantly complaining about the lack of police surveillance. Police officials rightly point out that this is a most demanding and unreasonable job on chapters. They generally do not cry out in public squares about exactly what they experience in their work, but much of it is far beyond what I think the public citizen, the general senator, is aware of. For this, a respected president, must be paid with money and with equipment needed to enable police officers to do their jobs as well as they themselves want. On top of this, it is not my experience that governments in general show them much understanding that important but low - paying classes have to be properly financed. This certainly applies to more classes than police officers, as we should know today. But that is why there must be a counterweight. After all, it's a matter of independent surveillance of police activities, the same as democracy itself, the same as the media to politicians, i.e. of restraint and counterimprovement. Our power systems are set up so that none of them are unique and none of them are in the position that they can simply control others. The path that has been invented is unpleasant and wicked; the strike course. He is in order to wield authority in a position they have no control over - I'm looking for the Icelandic word for a more dignified president - in a society where we know that a battle is eventually based that the person who pays has not all but the right that is an emergency but is present. We must show that we believe that it applies also to the most important class that we must not lose in a strike, such as the police. In fact, we should be encouraged to support this matter. Just the thought of a police strike makes me feel pretty horrible, and it's supposed to be because this class is to be well paid, it's to feel respected and trusted, and it's to get what it takes to live up to it. These include a good salary, and the right to strike is part of ensuring the class's ability to deal with the person who is obviously the State. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I'm gonna support this case and thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for volunteering it. I hope it gets through. I don't really think it will work out, and I'm especially happy that it is now over and over, but it's only recently achieved because the last contributions have not reached far. That's too bad. This is something I really want to see running through the council this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u122	Mr. President. I come up here at the end to thank you for the discussion we had here, me and you. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, which I heard was a firm supporter of the bill, and I welcome it. I was reluctant to guess in my speech that, of course, he was a member of the bill when it was presented to Council 145, if I recall correctly, as well as the men of the Left Green made it twice, including the present wave. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and coaperator on the bill were also the current highest. Secretary of health, Svandís Svavarsdóttir. When you look at a discussion that took place at 144th, it turns out that the bill received vast support from members of Congress who are now in charge, such as the independents and the left greens who brought up that discussion, so I can't better see that this bill, even though only those with me are members of a council and no more, they really do, I believe, broad support. It's a simple matter, just dropping down one branch in which police officers are forbidden to strike. It's not complicated. All you need is a will, and the will has come from all directions, both from the left side of the politics and from the right side, and now I can hear it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson agrees to give the officers this weapon to improve their terms. I am so happy to hear that he believes that the police are to be well paid, that he reasoned well in his speech. He believes that police officers should be trusted and respected, and I agree with him on that. Today, there is a wide variety of environments in society today, but perhaps 30 to50 years ago, police work is all but in the middle of the last century, much more demands, much more equipment, much more difficult and more complex subjects. It's a whole different environment. We must support this class, which is so important in the community. We agree on that, me and what. Senator, this is a very important job. We're giving them full support, the police and the police class, and this is one step in it. They have been complaining about this for years, but they have not been demanded to be taken into account. I gave an example. I studied the story in a rough way, how I have conducted it over the last 30 years. It has been difficult in their opinion and they insist on doing so, and when the bill was submitted in 2014, it supported this right. It may not be necessary to go over it, but the police work is a hard job. It's a shift job. Policemen never know what they're going to do when they're on call, never know what the situation is in the place they're going to. There are few classes that live with the uncertainty of policemen never knowing what will happen to them when they go to their next call. And they are responsible, usually first on the scene, and need to make sure of the scene and call others to help if necessary. We need to support the police and give police equipment, good pay, and education. I have the hope that once the case goes to the General and Education Committee, it will be decommissioned, sought out, and the story will be resolved, and we'll get it back here in 2nd. Later in the winter. I'd like the case to go to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-05-27.u123	Mr. President. Everyone is aware of the importance of the work volunteers are doing in our society. Also, everyone knows how difficult it can be to make money and a part of this priceless work is to approach the various employment parties and ask for grants and contributions. I have, along with my partners in the United States, presented this bill which will increase the support of companies to sports and youth services, environment, culture, including to TV and films, charity jobs and science work. According to current legislation, it is permitted to withdraw taxable revenues and human income due to the sector or to the independent operation of various contributions, including the contributions to cultural and scientific research, thus lowering their stock to income taxes. In other words, there is an incentive in the current law to strengthen the important activity that identifies the so - called Third Sector. However, we would like to go further here and increase the motivation, for if the bill becomes a law, then a company that gives 100,000 bucks, e.g. to cultures, youth and sports, charity or science, allowed to count $200,000. to reduce the loss of income taxation strain. Give me 100,000 bucks. and may reduce the income tax strain by 200,000 k. In accordance with current law, the company is only allowed to reduce its taxable income by 100,000 dollars. or twice as much as mentioned in the bill. The current legislation then covers much less functions than is expected in the bill. So this bill doubles the motivation for professional living to support culture, sports, youth, environment, charity, charity, and science with the benefits of this tax gain. As I mentioned earlier, Mr. President, it is recently recommended in the bill to include this taxation in a variety of activities and to add environmental issues, sports and youth activities and cultures and to give special attention to movie and television groups. It is not enough that we are doubleing the motivation for an enterprise to support these people but that we are increasing the number of stakeholders that can benefit from the tax laws we make. In other words, the bill is intended to lead to increased productions from employment to these factors and aid those volunteers who keep the work of these partners going to make money because it will be taxable for the donor or companies to contribute something to these factors. We know in many foreign lands that such regulations exist. If we look at the background of these issues, we can see that the support of companies for culture and science has been increasing in recent years, such as elsewhere, and in my opinion and in my partner in the Community, it is probably necessary that we care for these non-profit nonprofit non-profit organizations in the areas that I could do so and by means of the implementation expected in the bill. We know that this organization and society are often driven by unselfish volunteers who rely on the financial resources that can be quite difficult to approach. The bill will make up for it. Increased contributions to these classes, to culture, especially to film and television, although there is more culture and additional contributions to sports and youth, environment, euthanasia, and science are leading to increased activities that will later be turned into a trust fund, including government funds. In the form of income tax, decrepit tax and other expenditures for which these people may be available. That is why, as expected in the bill, an increased attraction in this area is likely to result in increases in government income apart from the obvious fact that the bill will enrich human culture, youth, environmental struggles, and scientific work. We're suggesting a reduction in corporate income taxes, we're offering a tax reduction, so that the companies are prepared to contribute money to the factors I've mentioned several times. There's some important novels I'll go over. We'll see in 31 st. A current law on income taxes is required on the authority of companies and partners in an independent job to reduce their payable individual donations and contributions to churches, established euthanasia, culture, political parties and scientific research, but not more than 0.75% of revenues. Then there's a minister, it's in the bill, who decides by Regulation what categories and institutions will agree with this figure. We are not suggesting any changes to churches, churches, or political parties, that will remain the same. In a simple way, a income tax product strain can continue to be withdrawn from the enterprise chosen by the partners. But there are the other factors, culture, charity and science, and then the other three we add, childhood and sports, environment, movie and television. It's the newcomer I specialise and I think there's a lot of improvement. It is also worth it, Mr. President, specifically that in the current law, these contributions may be of no more than 0.75% of income. As we stand for the bill, the roof will rise, we will double it, and the criteria will go up to 1.5%. It is a roof, but I and the merchants of this case believe that such a roof will be raised even more or even removed. But in this experiment, we suggest that the roof be simply doubled. In the Regulation on the disparagement of employment or internally authorised activities, it is stated that under culture activity, if we specifically examine it, any culture activity for the public, such as the publication of literature, education films, books, documents, art and memory collections, literary and arts, the protection of ancient anthropographs, and the nature products etc. However, we transporters would like to have contributions to films and TV equipment at home as well. We want the same provision of contributions to these factors. For example, only in the current law can it be said that educational films should benefit from this. We want to expand this and let the public films be heard underneath so that it falls under the law. There is no need to tell anyone in this hall how important parishions are in the movie and television industry, and therefore it is important that moviemakers and TV producers have this recovery option when they collect donations. It may be that the funding of films and television programs is often in a way that achieves the domestic funding of a given amount often comes in comparable or even higher amounts from a foreign source. So that money can simply multiply, and that's why I see that even if we're down here paying taxes, the government's income will simply increase, as I mentioned at the beginning of my case. This is very important because we know that many jobs in this country have been prevented from getting money from abroad to film and TV. This bill should be agreed to correct it. The government should thus be restored, due to increased activity, the funding it provides through a movie fund, for example. Then there's a lot of the benefits that the tourism can gain from movie and television programs. We know that a local movie and television company can become even more extensive and more productive business than it is today, and Icelandic movie and television makers have often shown that their work is equal to the best that happens in the world. So when you look forward to the future, it is wise to contribute to the growth of this sector and art as the approved bill will lead to. Special attention is given on the subject that the approved bill will likewise promote literature and other arts, such as drama, music, and art, and the activities of the collection. But all these lawsuits fall under the appeal of the bill. Mr. President. The bill also adds that it is suggested that the forwardness of employment in sports and youth activities should be taken into account in youth. The value of youth and sports activities is clear, and this is especially the most powerful work of association and partners in the field that has contributed to the intensive procreation and well - being of young people. A country even speaks of the Icelandic model when it comes to reducing the effectiveness of young people on drugs and having a major role in the success of a sports and youth - oriented organization. They often have to rely on companies, so the approved bill will be likely to have a very positive influence on their activities, for the drive to support sports and juvenile society will actually double. This is a clear example of a tax appeal that will truly benefit all, both relevant sports club and government, and especially those youths who practice the work of these organizations. Transporters believe that it is important that environmental organisations also benefit from this tax economy. This is an important addition. Such organizations are doing a very good job in the field of public interest and will continue to increase their impact in the light of disasters and climate change that threaten life on earth. Environmental organisations play an important role in the use of the network's environmental bodies, which believe that increasing the donations made by the sector's sector are necessary because of the tax economy involved in the bill. Finally, environmental authorities are calling attention to the fact that above regulations require scientific activity to be considered both intellectual and scientific. So this is a broad definition in line with the views of transporters, but under science, social science and health science also fall, while science in college is often divided into these four basic fields. This is true of science. refers to the activities of higher institutions of education. Business contributions to further research and teaching within the school system fall under the bill and benefit from it. At that time, charity and charity will also be included in this bill and will benefit from the increase in sectoral donations. It is totally undisputed, Mr. President, the importance of the various charities and charities in Iceland and can be said to be part of the welfare system consists of such societies that are largely fired by unselfish volunteers. As we now assume, financial incentives for such contributions will be greatly increased by contributions from employment to these partners, to charity, to charities, to the approval of the bill. Mr. President. I'm convinced that the bill's approval would be a major step in progress and that professional life, the free partners, pioneers, and so on. will make much money. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and tax Committee.
