ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u1	A respectable president. The majority of the country's population is opposed to compromising the import rules of fresh food, according to a survey carried out by Zenter for the News newspaper and published in the paper and on the website. It is not particularly surprising that opposition is higher in the region where the close - up in production is more than in the southwest corner. The absence of raw meat import and fresh food is about Iceland's future speciality. The future interests of Icelandic society depend on. They are far bigger than the interests of any particular class in the modern world. With regard to the business element, the Icelandic market is small in international comparison, allowing our interests to outweigh in the overall context. It should be our ambition to fight for our sustainable country and for our increased food security. It is not aggressive to point out that the health of Iceland's livestock stocks is with the best in the world and the use of antibacterials in agriculture with the least known event. Build up the land, protect the special status we have here in the health of livestock and put it into the climate bill that the future generations call after we do better than we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u2	A respectable president. The bank manager's pay went up by 1.8 million. K. every month, from 2.1 to 3.8 million. K., i.e. 80% increase. The bank manager's monthly salary is twelve to fifteen times the pension wage. It's only fair that the poor and the other pensioners get 40,000 bucks. in the next three years, which are 120,000 dollars, as labor leaders have requested for their clients? We're talking about 3500 bucks. the next 36 months, that's all the increases. Which is more reasonable to raise by 133,000 k. Car strength for the head of the land reactivation system, 87,000. of 220,000 K. every month, or increases by 40,000 k. for the next three years, a total of 120,000 bucks, for the least of those who have? Needs a manager with $3.2 million. K. every month, we should go to almost 3.5 million. K. ... offereda U.S.G.A.to buy 10 million. K. a car? Can't a director of the supersalaes buy himself a car? What's wrong with our society? On the government's command, we look at the consequences of poverty that again results in malnutrition, followed by irritability, agitation, memory loss, depression, anxiety, and loss of mobility. What, then, is to be done when people and older in this land are starving and injured? My health's gone. An individual, as I recently saw, is to survive 235,000 bucks. At the government administration, taxing and cutting down his pension fund by 80 to 100%, and after the regular cost, to housing, and so forth, it owns 15,000 bucks. after the monthly assessment, 500 k. daily. I want him to go to a psychologist because of anxiety and depression, pay 15,000. Before the time to starve? What about the future? If this person is seriously ill caused by malnutrition, what? Does he get first in the medical system, or is he the priority only for the highly paid chosen ones who get even higher money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u3	Mr. President. I can bring all the good news to the President and Congress that my inquiry has been received from the highest level. Secretary of state, submitted on October 16th. To answer, five times was needed. It's kind of weird. V.E.G. Secretary of state has discussed much of the opportunities contained in Baltrexit. He has been very diligent in reviewing the high level of communication with the British government. The media for the past few months reports that an agreement with the British is being made on the rights of Icelandic citizens in Britain. It's a little surprised that it took all this time to make this answer. The results of the response are that it took 20 hours to take the answer together. In view of all that the Ministry claims to have been doing and all that the Ministry knows, I feel that it takes 20 hours to gather what has already been said in the media. But the biggest news is that European citizens in Britain have absolute uncertainty about what will take place in their rights after 2020. After that time, it is clear that the rights of the Icelandic citizens to live, operate, and study in the United Kingdom will be worse than for Bgret. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u4	Mr. President. Last summer I tried to tell a story about my finger, actually not on purpose, it was an accident. When I was on the riverbed east, I had to go to the clinic about 10 miles [10 km] to get my finger sewed. There I came to a closed door. Then I went to the police station, and there I was told by the police that I was not getting medical service in Ranger county after dinner, and no one would stitch me up there. So I went to an ambulance 50 miles [50 km] to Selephoss, past the medical clinic at Hella, on the way, where I was stitched together. I happen to live on the riverbed 15 years ago. Then I could be stitched together 24 hours a day and all my family, responding to all my problems. I can be sure that in the 15 years, there has been no improvement in the health of people in the city of D.C., and there has been an increase in population growth, and there are more tourists. This is the place in the country where the most serious of these accidents have occurred in recent years. The remarkable thing is that the ambulance that took me out of Puppy Field at Selephos is also gone, he's left Puppy Stadium, so it's an even longer term for an ambulance. We've heard of an accident under the island mountains, and we've heard it in the last few weeks. Of course, this is no service for the inhabitants of this area and no service for the thousands of tourists who travel through the City of Doom. In fact, I was told by the officer that if I had been more injured, the doctor would have come and ruled me dead, that would be all he would do after dinner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u5	V.E.G. President. A lot of what? The members of Parliament discuss the matter with a great sense of irresponsibility. It would be wish that this discussion could be discussed with greater control and reason. Clearly, the EFTA Court has fallen, like the district and the Supreme Court, and the failure to react is primarily irresponsible. It's a bill. It's a TV. Agricultural minister puts the quality of health and livestock in first place, and known professional people tell the minister's counterweight action. But we import thousands of tons of raw meat every year, you see frozen raw meat. To date, meat has never been called in because of the risk of transmission of infectious diseases, which have been brought in less than 30 days of freezing duty. Never. All the talk that this is the first time we let raw meat and risk it is nothing. The difference is whether raw meat is transferred fresh or frozen. We should remember that freezing does not kill bacteria, and in reality it is more likely to be transmitted by humans than by agricultural products. In this case the import will meet the same requirements as domestic product. However, the object of consumers is important and provides information about the origin of goods and purity to make informed decisions. Changes in vegan farmers'environment yielded good results when customs were removed from several groups of products. Vegetarian farmers received a fine competition that they fully met, and there is no doubt that we know better, and we trust Icelandic agricultural products. It is important for the consumer to have a choice and to have a store available to offer the best of what is available at this time. We should not be afraid of such competition, for we can fully live up to it and the choices and positions of consumers are meant to be important to us. It creates incentives and innovations for Icelandic agriculture to make their products the first benefit of consumers. I trust Icelandic agriculture in this competition, but I also trust people to choose. I wondered, " What solutions do I have to contend with this with great anger? ' Someone would say that the solution to escape this is to resign the EEA agreement. [[The president calls.]] I'm right, for those who doubt it, that it's not on the policy list of this government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u6	Mr. President. They may be carrying in the packed stream to discuss some plastics again, but I'm going to bring you some new news. In the depths of the ocean, where the deep water is 5 to 10 miles, there are organisms, and there are microplastic particles in 70% of those organisms. There were plastic particles in all of these. I wonder, " How many plastic particles do we have here in this room? ' There must be a number of them. But I can say that there are dozens of billions of plastics floating in the oceans. That is a scientific fact, although we do not know much about the effects of plastic particles on ourselves or on organisms. You see, it's the vague part of all of this. No one knows what plastic wastes are like in the living creatures of the sea, organisms on land, are really doing. I'm sorry, but there's been an emergency. On the contrary, the government has created a plastic surgery program in 18 things that are included in the consultation puzzle so that we are not completely green in these materials. I'd like to point out two points. More people are responding, and I mean the blue army. He wants to expand and expand his activity, and it is urgent that the government's strength be involved in it so that he can organize more work projects and all over the country. There is something else that I can't afford to mention that is the treatment of a national waste that is not read at all. I'm referring both to the classification, the renovations, and the terrestrials, and so on. It also requires initiative and government strength, not just outlets, but garbage. I urge all of us in here to engage in a real war with plastic pollution. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u7	Mr. President. The joyful event took place last week that social and child - care minister and minister of justice wrote under a two-year contract on the business of a new service center for victims of violence in Akureyri. The Service Centre will be run as a two - year test project and will consider the financial contributions of the advisers. This is a service center comparable to that of Bjarkardö, many of whom are known as operating in the capital area. This is in harmony with the government's plan of action against violence and its consequences. The Akureyri police captain has been giving this project a thorough witness and that this center would become a reality, and she is in charge of the project. Others involved in the operation are the Akureyri Trade, the Team, the Sex and Home Violence Organization, the University of Akureyri, the Akureyri Hospital, the National Institute of Health, the Women's Association, the Women's Council, and the National Rights Office for Human Rights. As you can see, this is a very cross-cutting, extremely good group of people. At the center, there is a time for violations of support and counseling in the wake of violence. This work is welcome to the tolerability of those living in the North and East, and hopefully it will be possible to expand this activity further so that future work can be added so that people do not have to go to both psychological, social, and legal resources for long distances, as has been experienced so far. A team manager has now been advertised and is expected to start by the beginning of April. So, of course, I need to find a name for the operation, and I encourage interested people to offer suggestions, e.g. ... ontheP.R.P.P. in Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u8	A respectable president. This weekend, I met a woman who said she was very worried that there would be another crash from the latest reports of an increase in apartment prices, the choice of airline positions, and increased inflation. This woman decided to sell her house and reduce her debt, thus reducing her debt. Now I'm not gonna recommend that we're in general debt, and it's always good to get out of debt, but there's no reason to despair. This morning at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, representatives of the Habitat showed up for a revised national report. It is, in fact, there. spoke of the economic foundations of the households remain stable. The domestic budget, with the exception of pension rights, was about 157% of GDP in 2017 and has not been higher in the past 20 years. Debates as a proportion of GDP are currently about 75%, the lowest value since 2003. In comparison, the average debt of other colonies was 105%. The Icelandic home also has the second largest share of provisions behind Finnum, but Danir, Sweden, and Norway are all over us in that proportion. We know that the top of the economy is reached and that everything that goes up is also going down. Again, I say there's no reason to despair, but we need to catch softer landing. To that end, all of us need to lie down on one thing. We need to contribute to the responsible state of the labour market, and the labour market parties need to negotiate the first treaties, treaties that do not interfere with stability, and do not contribute to inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u9	A respectable president. In Silfra, last Sunday, why? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson me for thieving all members of Congress. Before I continue, I want this to be perfectly clear so that everyone understands: No, it's not. I didn't find all members of Congress. I asked for an investigation on all members of Congress, and I didn't separate myself. In my inquiries about the driving cost of senators, huge numbers were reported. The information was fueled by rumors that had long passed among men as to the fact that this was a matter of self - examination. At the same time, the office manager of the Generals spoke with the hour by permission of a president: ▪ The World Council Hall has not thought it was his job to evaluate whether a senator is having a meeting with whom he is, for example, a meeting. announced an invitation or a right to a meeting. This must be in the hands of the senator himself. Because the amount is high because there is a history of self - determination and the lack of trust in the Council, it is inevitable to ask for an investigation on whether this is a misbehaviour. This is an opportunity to refute rumors about self - determination and corruption. This is the only way to build trust. You can't just leave it alone. Distrust will not go away if we ignore it. I ask the U.S. Congress to take my request for this investigation seriously. If not due to the specifics that I mentioned here, then because of the confessions available to pay for matters pertaining to re-election, general elections and TV shows. No one I've talked to outside this council has agreed that these matters are part of the work of members of Congress. So how remarkable it must be if there are others in the council! That's why there are rumors of suicide. That is why there is a need for clear answers to what is normal, not how we feel about what is normal, but what is normal in our community. Between that, differences create distrust and suspicion of corruption and self-destruction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u10	V.E.G. President. I didn't mean to waste my time on it, but I want to point it out. paritaprevir Because of the very nature of this statement, the Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví should listen to a radio program of his own. I can get the link to him on an opportunity. What I was going to talk about today is the MND disease that is one of the biggest people ever to face in the world. That's about it. 30 people who have this disease in Iceland at any given time. Six analyzes every year, and six falls in force. About 1/3 people who develop the disease live for only one year, and half of those who develop the disease survive for less than two years. This is heavy. One in 300 can be detected at some point in life with MND, and there is no cure. The treatment is to make life as bearable as possible as long as they live with the disease. It appeared a few days ago, both in the news reports of Stop Two and also in the News magazine, if I recall the correct or News Times, that now a drug experiment is being made in Australia that has been enough to block the disease in 70% of the cases. These are medicines that are not officially in the market but are used in an experimental fashion, but these have not been used in Iceland. Of course, those who suffer from the disease want to take their medicines. They say, " We don't want to wait for us to die sitting down. ' We want to fight while we can. I would like to challenge the U.S. Senate to make it possible for the health authorities to have the highest authority. The U.S. Department of Health forum arranges that people in the 30 people who are dealing with this disease will be able to use this medicine, which is now being introduced into research in Australia. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u11	Mr. President. I'm assuming that everyone in this room knows someone who has an addiction problem. Many families live in the shadow of this curse, and thousands of children are raised by domestic problems. For many the result is uncertainty, shame, at worst failure, lack, and even violence. It has been a fine success in Iceland when it comes to keeping alcoholics away from the chef, and many of them have described how fortunate it is for them and for those close to them when they can finally put her away. We can thank a lot of people for that, especially the U.S.A. Money for the organization is well spent, but it is important that this service be done in many lands. You see, this disease does not look at class or status nor does it look like any Icelandic failures. However, if someone finds that amazing, there are many alcoholics and drug users in the country. For years, we've been running a parade in Akureyri. The cost has been around 20 million each year, of which 5 million have been paid by the city of Akureyri. This department has served the region from the north and east on the fjords. This activity has now been shut down because of lack of funds and an important support out of the country. The consequences will be very expensive to us, and much more than the 20 million involved. It was assumed in the last districts that the Council guaranteed money for this operation. The reasons why closed are unclear. I don't want to care about who's right about issues between the Department of Health, Medical Security and the U.S.A., but I'm sure that the will of the Generals is clear. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to be secure, money's been assured, and there's nothing left to wait much longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u12	Mr. President. It has become clear that severe injuries have been taking place in the Iceland State Bank on Pension Control. It's coming even. magazines in response to my written request. In addition, many questions are raised regarding the management of the Secret Bank. It is necessary to shed light on the possibility of a broken pot as well. The Secret Service of the Secret Bank and its Daughter's Company Hilda ehf. has been given to you by the government's decision on information laws. That Exception was to be revised no later than December 15th of last year. The work of the Department and the Daughter's Company Hilda ehf. for the public. These organizations have taken care of the price of much of the empire's property. In the fall of financial companies in Iceland in the fall of 2008, Iceland's Federal Republic of Germany had a large demand for financial companies. The requirements were guaranteed by various means. Great public interests are at stake where the holding society and Hilda ehf. has spent hundreds of billions of dollars of money behind closed doors. The late bank has now requested a continuing release from information legislation for the above - mentioned members. Mr. President. I believe that it is normal to refuse the request and to open up for transparency, especially in view of what has been reported recently in dealing with the government of the Iceland government. The collection of possessions handled some hundreds of billions of property in Iceland, and it was natural that a public article is made for that work. Any suspect that there was a premeditation or a fortune - teller must be destroyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u13	A respectable president. I generally try not to become personal in politics, but this is once so that the personal thing is political. When I looked forward to bean soup and salty ket today, I recalled that in the past, when I was young and unique with my baby, a poor salt snack could be found in a saucy pack of 300 krkas. which I regularly bought for dinner between noodles and anything in weekly food bags from the Mother Control Committee. For a long time after this period, I didn't want to see the salt on this annual entertainment day. I remember now that poverty in Iceland is no longer a secret because a large number of people survive the benefits of relief efforts when wages and benefits do not work to live a decent life in Iceland. And since we're talking about the peripheralized group of people, I'd like to mention that the speech that is being heard at the Allied Council of Iceland about those less fortunate, if allowed, is shameful. It's clear that no person is allowed anything less than another person. This is the only way we can talk about people unless we are actually trying to minimize them and make them perimeterd. Yes, Mr President, the Patriarchal Empire is widely available, as is the case in the government of the Icelanders, who are distracted by the labor struggles of low wages. No, I'm sorry, ladies' class. Someone would have thought that the left wing of politics would not work to support the social class struggle between people who work in the dark just to embalm the capitalist's wheels that are marrowing just those who need the real left of politics. A respectable president. Now it is no longer enough to refer to the average percent and economy. Iceland's underages are not taking this gas light any more, and here in the maps is a revolution of the larger kind. The only people who don't realize the revolution are the people who feel they're wrong to have the exclusive right to Iceland's democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir in his discussion of importing fresh meat. In fact, Me and Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir are a pleasant group, for we also recommend both the bill for changing the law on clock charges later today. Well, obviously, we're a little intervening on this fine day. The talk that takes place on the import of fresh meat brings a great deal of people. There is an unnecessary fear of the high risk of infection, even though it has been repeatedly noted that the main reason for the use of multiple resistant bacteria is the very high level of antibiotic use in humans. We have our heads and shoulders over other northern nations and, in fact, a number of other European countries, if so. We may want to focus on reducing the amount of antibiotic use in ourselves. Furthermore, repeated reports have been made that cryopreserved meat has no effect on the multi-drug resistant bacteria. Yet, this fear has been promoted and has been in effect against the better awareness by the government of the United States, which from the very beginning was repeatedly warned not to pass the commitments that had recently been committed by the government, which did not pass laws, and would have no effect on any of the above. Of course, one of our main dangers is the massive flow of tourism and the spread of infection by tourists. I assume that governments do not intend to record 30 days of cryo-feature during travel. At any rate, that would have a negative impact on their flow to the country. The time has come for this discussion to be replaced by people's conflicts, and it is time for us to respect the commitments we have made in international transactions and deliberately overstepped from the past 12 years. I hope the General is united in giving the bill the highest. Sea dignitary and agricultural ministers pass when it comes to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u15	A respectable president. I'm worried about the fur that can't be found around the country. Looking back and thinking about it, it's not been so many years since the fur business began here long before Christmas. Early winters were full of life, with flour factories and plenty of vegetation all around the country. We had giant stations that handled quite a great, successful fur structure. Now we're so spontaneous we can't find any fur. It doesn't seem hairy. More than 1,000 people are determined not to get a job on hairy work. But what else can we look to? You think of members of your community who are missing out on campaigns, such as the U.S. To the east, a distant region is estimated to be from some 150 billion. K. blackbacks. Will the government, for example. look to those areas that will be damaged if there are no furs? Actually, there is not much optimism about those who know more than I do. So we also think a little bit about our life around the country, what about codfish? What about the food? What about the sea bird? The situation that we now face in terms of predictable hairy deficiency is gravely serious, and really serious that I think it is too little and too downplayed here at the high Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for dealing with me once more on police issues. This is probably the third or fourth time I have at my word with the Justice Department on police issues, and not that unforeseeably, because much has moved better than that in recent years - I specifically mention the dramatic success of police sexual crime and the investigation of such crimes, and the police computer offense - is one of the remainders, that's what we call visible law enforcement. By 2007, there were approximately There were 374 police working in the capital area, but in 2017 there were 307, as well as the natural growth of population at that time. So in 2007, there were 513 residents of each police officer, 706 of 2017, i.e. A 30% increase in population per officer. There is also a large growth of tourists in Iceland, especially here into the capital area where most tourists are involved. And what does that mean? That means a shift that was once counted as 21 now number six. And that means that in spite of what's been done in other police departments, and I'll again talk about sex offenders and computer departments, and with all due respect for what Schengen teaming put us on the shoulders of South Cheflavour Airport, we still need 80 officers here at the capital area. What do 80 men do in the capital area? They provide 16 men on each watch - 16 people, these 80. That's a billion dollars. It's expensive, but it's the police that are both in civilian service, in security, and even in initiative research. Today this is so that even humans can hardly have the power to act on calls and/or evidence of drunk driving, drug driving, and driving around schools around school in the city. Men do not have the power to handle such calls. If you're going to crash on a mall road, even where traffic is disturbed by the accident, you'll have to wait three minutes for a police officer, if he gets there. It's annoying, at least. Minister of Justice. This too is seen in other ways. This is shown by the fact that because of human birth, it is not as powerful as it once was. In shouts where in the past even five went together, now two go, and one of them is easily injured. Police Department injuries, joint injuries have become much bigger, more general, and more common. It's annoying. What has been the result? This has led to a flight from the union, a significant escape from the police class. They're burning out. They're doing their best. And during all of this, there's an inaccessible police issue piled up on the detective's table. There is an intolerable situation, so we must act. That is why I wanted to take this discussion again and again at the highest level. The Minister of Justice and instructs her to make sure that next year's budget will be a handsome increase to visible law enforcement, especially here in the capital area, so that the situation in which we live will be at hand. Let me give you one more example. In recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in domestic violence. If there is such an incident at the beginning of the police watch, one or two men are bound by the only case in the whole shift, because, of course, they have to file a report, they need to get the victim out of the way, and the violent man needs to be taken away. It takes an entire shift. It takes about one to two less shifts. That leaves four people in the entire capital area. These things have to be started at the top. Minister. There's got to be a serious improvement here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for testifying once again, so I testify in his own words, the police case for a special discussion. It is my pleasure to discuss the issues of the police regularly and, of course, to be a regular part of the program, as they say. Hv. A senator makes a special subject for the visible law enforcement department. I think I did well with the last special discussion of why. A senator how things have evolved in law enforcement, including the U.S. In such a way that law enforcement has become much more extensive and complex than that it is merely about the police on its feet, so to speak, the visible ones on the streets of the urban area, and even the rural areas, and not a mere number of them. I mentioned that crime has almost spread from the real world into the world. We have had to contend with and respond with police specialists, as well as with our own experts in various fields other than direct law enforcement fields. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator's concern is that there have been significant increases in visible law enforcement over the past few years. I'd like to mention this in the case of a law program that is at my desk for lectures, and I will submit for the next few days a law enforcement program that has been working in the Ministry for some time. It specifically highlights the analysis of the human need and we find out, including working with a police officer throughout the country who has worked with us on the plan, that it is not enough to review the number of police officers that have so far gone. The need for law enforcement has changed, and the ideologies regarding the survival of police services are based on the basis of the primary focus for emergency emergency services, second of the crime prevention and third, research. So I give a little insight into the law enforcement program that has not been submitted, it stresses that 67% of the police population is an expedite because of emergency services, 10% of the people's resources due to crime and 23% for research. This is true at any given time. I'd also like to mention that in recent years, police workers who are not police officers have increased, e.g. Experts in various fields. They do not appear in the number as a pa·rou·siʹa. A senator mentions 712 police officers last year. I point out that there has been a slight growth, although it may have been replaced in the capital area because of that. A senator specifically turned to that area. While numbers of educated policemen have been standing in place, the numbers have increased dramatically among the criminals. It may be rooted in changing police education and recent employment skills, which we are now considering how it has proved to be. However, we have put great emphasis on securing innovation, for example. to increase the number of posts in school at the University of Iceland, which is a human-identified diploma study and other such factors. So it all looks for improvement, and as I have over and over again and over again, financial contributions to law enforcement have greatly increased. This year, there is an increase of about 1.5 billion from the previous year to the police and, especially, an increase in the number of visible law enforcement through the rise of tourists in various areas. Yet, much of that money also goes on to promote activities against organized crime. It is certainly not a visible lawkeeping, but it is urgent that it be strengthened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for starting here again discussing the state of the police in the country ends up with a discussion of needs at any time it takes place. We need to make sure that the law here is acceptable. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Ministers that there was now an improvement, an increase in the number of police officers, and a marked improvement in law enforcement. But after my conversations over the last few days with those serving in the field, it turns out that the general law enforcement is in fact still in the same place that she was here a few years ago, when the pressure on a regular police officer and the bad way of handling the legal role of the police went out there. The government has certainly taken certain measures when it comes to special projects, promoting the crime department of the police, which had rather been called upon for many years. Is that very good? Research into these matters should now begin to develop, so that not years of waiting for solutions to these matters. But this does not change times and seasons, e.g. In the capital area and beyond the country, as I heard, there's one professional policeman on duty, and then a number of so-called H-men, who are then not educated by the police. These individuals are required to be sent out. Besides this, the shifts are so crowded that there is only one of the most important tasks that can be done at the right time. I think if we're going to take care of this as well as we're going to have to raise the number of highly educated policemen as well as raise the money to the general law enforcement department. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u19	Mr. President. It is important to discuss the issues of the police, and interesting to find that the emphasis here has been placed on the fundamental factors that, in fact, turn away. ... ashowinthepolitan police departmentsandthepolice of the police department. I think the police exhibiting is very important, especially in some areas. I would especially like to mention what is involved in traffic safety. I think it just affects our behavior to have the police visible in traffic. But then another aspect of the law - enforcement work may be focused on the image that shows it there. For example, I'd like to mention what was a little in the discussion here in the summer of 2017, and we discussed quite a bit in the community, i.e. demonstrations of armed police. I don't think it's possible for the citizens to feel safe. They can even bring out fear. That is a point we need to keep in mind. The record of the police is important too. V.E.G. The police'work was about to change. In this discussion just over a year ago, I talked about sex and how it matters when it comes to law enforcement. This may be of particular concern when it comes to the sexual abuses in which women are usually tolerant, whereas men are more of a product. Therefore, the police need to be aware of this. But I also think it is important to have policemen who can and who know how to deal with a wide variety of society, since we have become a very diverse community, that the police have a wide variety of backgrounds, and can deal with the variety of needs we have in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u20	Mr. President. Robert Peel, who established the first police force in today's world, provided nine laws for good law enforcement. They should all study. I'd like to make a special point in this discussion of two rules, thirds and nines. Peel's third law of Peels says, by permission of President: To gain and maintain the respect of the public, the police must ensure the willingness and cooperation of the public in order to obey the laws. It was done here in the past, with the work of the Department of Defense. She was removed for savings over 10 years ago, and this resulted in an enormously important connection between police and young people. The opportunity to inform the country's young people about the police and the community and mutual respect within them to a certain extent and also the link between police to the close environment, whether or not it was about to be exposed to a fracture or an early intervention when children fell off track. Peel's Ninth Law of Peels says, by permission of President: The police's efficiency is measured in low crime rates and not by law-enforcement demonstrations to carry out their assignments. When it is called for law enforcement to become more visible, it is mainly a request that the public fear the police more. It's a phantom idea of the purpose of law enforcement. She rejects Piratar in the same way as Róbert Peel himself. Rather, we need to consider the spiritual health of law enforcement officials, stress reactions, and coldness within them. We need to use it as a guide to see if there is enough money and, therefore, sufficient design for the police. Today is not the day. If we want Iceland's law enforcement to become strong, efficient and, in accordance with good law enforcement regulations, we need to ensure adequate care. We need to ensure a strong cooperation with the citizens and that the police themselves have the respect they deserve from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u21	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say thank you for putting police affairs on schedule at the council and the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice for giving an answer. As mentioned earlier, police play a key role in society's safety and response systems. The police are one of the basics of the state, which makes me happy with plans for making and implementing a law enforcement program at the highest level. A minister mentioned in his speech. The definition of safety and service is important to identify the nature and scope of the police work and all plans for transparency at costs are good but the tasks are varied and variable. One expense team is a car business, but I know the job is to reorganize cars. It's very important, and really, the big thing is that I'm told. Feelings of relief may greatly increase the scope of visible law enforcement. All law enforcement professionals I've discussed stress the importance of visible security. It is easy to draw attention to efforts in the northwest area, which included increased traffic care and demonstrations. This was achieved in a 26% reduction in road accidents. The vision needs not only to be founded but also to be in the neighborhoods, in urban areas, in tourist areas, in the highlands, and in downtown Reykjavík. It is important that the policeman recognizes his neighborhood, his people, and his territory. In order for this to work, more funding and more people are needed. That's why I'm happy with all the plans for the growth of police officers. V.E.G. President. Police school has been changed, and there's still something wrong with us seeing how it's coming out. But now, for the first time, there is a equal gender ratio in school, and it has to be exciting to see if and what it will change. But throughout the country, we are so lucky to have good people who are doing their best and may be said to be performing miracles often and often under extreme pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u22	Mr. President. It is necessary to discuss her and her role in the community with the police and equipment. The discussion is needed and should be thanked. The advisor for recording it. It speaks of visible law enforcement. True, it is important, but more important, though we have real law enforcement, i.e. Police that are efficient and at the same time tried. Of course, it can be divided into parts, to form visibles in the sense that on the roads a police alert occasionally to avoid being tempted to drive too fast, etc. But the main point is, especially because the nature of crime has changed so much, that we need a police officer who can deal with a new crime and thus protect the city's security. Therefore, the factor involved in prevention and research is very important. Of course, the police have all kinds of tools and equipment. One of the important things in this context, and we're going to discuss later today is the Schengen teamwork. I cut it at the end of the day. The verbal spoke of the Schengen community as a baboon. I think it's absolutely far from all right. On the contrary, I think the Schengen team would lead the police, and hence all Icelanders, tools and tools to deal with all kinds of problems that they would have no chance of dealing with on their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for this discussion. I served as a police officer for about 20 years, and attending the General Assembly symposium is far easier than ever to attend a day's work as a police officer. In a day's work as a policeman, you have no idea what you're waiting for. It was a dangerous job, and it was paid badly at the risk of human beings. In the past, the police were always talking about being badly designed, and they are badly designed today. You need to add. We have a lot more problems now than when I was in the police department's time. We've got drunk driving, drug driving, drunk and drug driving. When you are driving between Hafnarfjörður and Reykjavík or Hafnarfjörður, there's one thing you always notice, a police car can't be seen. Except you can see a police car, except you can see speed measurements. On the other hand, when streets are not blocked, you see tremendous speed driving. There's a lot of police work to do. It is spoken of as a billion. The billion would be quick to pay for fewer accidents. I think one of the best things we could do would be to put the police in order to do her job perfectly. I think that would do much back, just in the reduction of traffic accidents, we would have reached that level of costs many times back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u24	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Þorsteinn Sæmundsson up the police business and thinking that the discussion will be late. This discusses visible law enforcement, a law - enforcement organization that is designed to increase the sense of security and has a widespread prophylaxis. The police have long called for more men, and despite the fact that in the present age. A minister's condition has improved, considering that the number of policemen in police work, population growth, and especially the number of tourists that have continued to decline for years. In the beginning of my speech, I want to mention the most dangerous position of police outside the urban area where police often have to be alone, go to palace alone, and have no idea what their plans are. I think it needs to do better. Police have to be able to work hard enough, but within the past few years, there has been a shortage of work because the police have been so loaded up with work that the greatest amount of time the average policeman takes to do calls. Then I'd like to discuss the preemptive work of the police, which I believe must give much more emphasis. Unfortunately, that part of the police work has been neglected in recent years and even longer. It is important for the police to have the means to be close to the environment, the neighborhood youth, and the towns, to know where the shoe will squeeze, and the danger. It is important to be able to intervene early enough, e.g. When youths are taking their first steps in the use of illicit drugs, they are crucial to a good relationship with the police at the time. It is not worse that the police have previously developed a positive view among children and young people in that area. Mr. President. We have to lay down on one of the highest. Minister to promote the police and provide adequate conditions for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u25	V.E.G. President. Good and effective law enforcement is important in each community for security. As we live in a sense of insecurity, this has a profound effect on our entire life. Since 2013 there has been increased funds for law enforcement, and law enforcement has improved. It is not that politicians generally decide how the police spend their money. Rather, they weigh their offices themselves as to what is needed at any given time and where the emphasis is. Of course, we are well along on that subject. The number of policemen has been spoken of as being smaller than the number to which law enforcement is considered otherwise different, technology has changed, etc. In terms of visible law enforcement, she is, at least As far as I'm concerned, very visible. So I have been stopped very regularly, and I am being blown up in the face of extreme driving. So I have serious doubts that the main point is that the police are visible rather that they are equipped well and that police officers have good education and knowledge of what needs to be done in the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u26	Mr. President. War against the police has grown over the past few years, and there's no debate. With the rise of tourists and the interference of the police from death, accidents, and traffic violations, and all the time in such cases, the safety of the citizens may be lost to the police because of their failure to increase in numbers. Extensive areas of service are also a source of concern to a few. In addition, the pressures have increased in lands where the population has increased in a short period of time. The number of policemen needs to be increased, but that's not enough. The entire network around the police needs to be strengthened, the number of people taking over cases from the police and then fewer people have to wait a long time for relief or abduct. Police have cooperated with local community service to domestic violence and child - abuse activities and have put them first. That is well, but to make even better progress in this area, it is important that all over the country be active teams who work together to protect children from any kind of violence or neglect, organized by police, health care, and child - care committees, where all talk together and plan action. The police also need time and resources to do preemptive work. The police often work with people in a bad place in life, and they could have avoided that situation if they had received appropriate help before their case came under police control. For good and powerful prevention, it would be necessary to add psychologists and social workers to police stations, such as in many places around the country, experts who can work with people who are in a bad place in life but also to obtain data and detect potential abnormalities. [[The president calls.]] There is much to do because of the powerful preemptive activity of law enforcement on the Internet, multidisciplinary teamwork, and early intervention, the damage that people cause or experience during their lifetime.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advisor for her needed discussions and ministers for her comments. The subject of law enforcement is one of the issues I'm interested in, and I'm one of the men who are out in the field like a dog. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned. So I'm a working policeman. I don't want to minimize the recent growth in the police department, but it's not enough. Actually, it did. A little bit on Sæmundsson's number, talking about 712. I think my numbers are only 645. I think the Minister has the same thing in his answer. There are 272 police officers in the capital area. Then we'll bring all the detectives along. What I want to draw attention to is that the government's work programme has identified an increased accident on police officers. The work force twice pointed to it at short intervals and expressed their special concern about the situation they claimed to be dedicated to unscrupulous cuts and police staff during the past few years. According to my figures, the number of tourists in Iceland has increased by about 200% in recent years. It was noted earlier that in many places police are alone in a car. It belongs, for example. We're in the Vikings and on the Klausri. I called the sheriff's station at Puppyville earlier, and I got confirmation of it. Police are now driving alone in a car, and as mentioned earlier, the most serious accidents have recently occurred. The police sometimes rely on volunteers in their jobs to close the scene. Not long ago, the emperor set fire, and the police had to call out to help them close the scene because there were not enough police officers. Of course it's not working. It was noted that they were absent from the custody wards, and they are sadly laid down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u28	President. Policemen and women in Iceland are too few to handle what the government has to command the police. The pressure is too great, and much of the explanation is found in financial terms. Police don't get money that's needed to keep law enforcement out. In order for the office to be a law enforcement officer, it is simply necessary to assign the funds to do so, and not just for some special assignment, as it has been for the highest court. The Minister of Justice for the past few years, the general budget for the police needs to be increased. Then we could, for example. quit destroying powder in chasing consumers of drugs. Then I am not even talking about the legal process of drugs but only punishing those who use drugs. This would result in a humane approach, in which individuals with addictions would receive appropriate medical assistance instead of punishment. That approach would also relieve the task position of police officers on other jobs. A clearer explanation of the nation's legal organization is needed. State Marshal plays a surveillance role in other organizations as well as in the work of law enforcement in the form of Special Forces and Communications Centers. Monitoring these areas is on the same hand as the projects. Such a world offers a risk of corruption. Of course, such supervision should be completely independent and capable of carrying out the work with zeal. President. Being a police officer today is not an envying job. According to the information I've been given, there's a huge dissatisfaction within the police, especially with respect to the general law enforcement situation. There is no motivation to stay in a job as a general policeman. A policeman's pay will rise if he becomes head of police and the day - to - day operations also affects many. As a result, recent police personnel disappear as soon as possible to other jobs in the police department, which has caused humanism and lack of experience at the front line of the police. This has to change. I could go on for a long time, for good reason, but let's do it for now. Hopefully, the government will see to it that the next financial programme is being developed and that the problem will be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u29	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, for a special discussion of police affairs, mainly on visible law enforcement, but also on many other matters. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen for her input and agree with the Supreme Court. Minister and advocate. It is important that they show that we should always keep in mind when we are considering organization and funding the key role it plays as one of the basic government's concerns on safety and the response systems of society. Perhaps that is why in recent years we have seen a great change in the police organization by reducing and uniting, and it is important that we define at the same time the nature and scope of the work. Safety and services tests are essential for us when we express whether financial resources are sufficient or not, all in a way that provides us with the most practical use of funds. That's why it was very important to get an indentation from the mouth. paritaprevir The Fjölnir of Swedish Sæmundsson from the scene, so to speak. It is true, though, that from the 2013s onward, we have made contributions. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son pointed out. On it. Four years we have made significant contributions, about 5.3 billion k, which is a 56% rise, at the same time as consumer prices and salary figures have increased by 10% and 32%, respectively. Thus, there are several real increases, 4.3 billion over the value of consumers, and 2.3 billion over the increase in pay number. It is true, however, that with the increased technology and the more advanced information systems and the more difficult world, visible law enforcement, initiative - keeping, and some of the things that have been discussed in the discussion are very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u30	Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the provisional numbers of the police in the capital area, which are preliminary prior to 2018, there has been a marked increase in sexual abuses for the treatment of the police. They were 386 last year, 300 years before that, and 277 in 2016. Thus, this series of issues is increasingly dependent on. Rape issues have increased from 124 in 2016 to 187 last year. These are dark numbers, and it is imperative that the police be able to do their own part of the case, i.e. The investigation, in a powerful way. I know that more money and manpower have been put into it, but it has to be done even better to achieve the rate of treatment. That means the whole system, not just the police, to speed up the crisis. It is no less important to increase the understanding and knowledge of all people in the judicial system on this serious offense. I allow myself to remind me of a signing contract that has aimed at putting money into the justice system to instruct and then able to prepare the police better for research and for probes that are responsible for sex, sexual rights, and the importance of sexual agreements, since it is very important for the police, such as others, to understand and to know these things very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u31	A respectable president. Since 2007 the police service has dropped from 26 to 15. There were police stations in Hafnarfjördur, Kópavogur, and other parts of the country. That's too bad. As it has been done, it is not acceptable to reduce the number of police officers. It's really gotten bigger in the police these past few years. What may be the most serious part of this is that there is still a situation where one policeman can go and have to make a call. I speak from experience, it's completely ridiculous, it's dangerous and they're playing with fire or with the life and members of that particular officer. If it was bad in the past, it is even more dangerous today. That's what we're supposed to do, and we're supposed to make sure of it. A minister shall make sure that such a thing is not done; he shall make sure that there are at least two on wheels and in palaces. Then there's an elected police officer. They are not good and have never been good, not in terms of their risks, not the fact that they put life and limb under our protection. The other is that we must make sure that visible law enforcement is visible again. She's not visible anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u32	President. Thank you for your discussion. Thank you for your time. Minister of Justice. It is not that they have received money that they can play from themselves because they have been marked with an earmark on certain tasks, and that is a good record, sexual abuse, etc. Despite the fact that legal rights have been exceeded, it is because people have been on certain projects, borders, sexual abuses, as I said before, etc., not to improve in the presence of visible law enforcement officers. It tells itself that when three men are on the night shift in the neighborhood of the capital area, which is estimated to be 60,000, that is not enough. I wish that I would be harassed by visible law enforcement officers in Reykjavík, as noted earlier. I would be very happy if I were to be blown or replaced regularly. However, I would like to point out that in all fractures, there is an increase between 2017 and the earlier reference years, no matter whether we are talking about violations of wealth, violations of privacy, property damage, drug crimes, sexual abuses, abuses, crime crimes, everywhere there is an increase. Here we are talking about potentially preventable offenses, both in prevention and in the presence of visible law enforcement. That's why I insist. Minister still to include in the next budget a substantial increase in budgets to the police in the capital area, so that there can be added to visible law enforcement. As long as it is, as I say, our priorities need to be fixed by the officers'case according to severity, we are not in a good place. With respect to people who are hired to be on computers and to be involved in research, you don't send them out in palaces. Minister, that's just the way it is. That is why we need police officers to expand our shifts, to expand the figure that can be called in and for the development of visible law enforcement. [[The president calls.]] Only those who fear visible law enforcement are those who have unclean flour in the sack.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u33	A respectable president. I'm grateful for this discussion that's been focused mainly on official law enforcement. When it comes to measuring results or visible law enforcement whether or not it exists, I think, e.g. I'd like to take a look at the violations that are registered to the police. The number of traffic fractures in the capital area, for example, increased between 2017 and 2018 by 18%. No further registration of traffic laws has been made by the police in the capital area since 2009. This may indicate how visible the law is because traffic violations are not registered to the police unless the police witness to them. This may well measure the performance, suggesting that the performance was increased by traffic surveillance during those years. However, the number of burglaries decreased compared to the average 2009-2018 years. Any burglars are reported, I presume, or the vast majority. These reductions may be attributed to the increased police demonstrations. The number of theft breakers also fell. I also assume that theft is reported to the police. This decreased by 11% between 2017 and 2018. The reduction was about 5% compared to the average 2009-2016. Most of the registered drug crimes are due to police initiatives. The number of drug fractions reportedly increased considerably between 2017 and 2018, by 21%, due to police initiatives. There you might wonder, " Is the reality not also a factor? ' On the other hand, I am concerned with the local police departments and the general design. [[The president calls.]] I've made my point, this looks all over again, and there's nothing more to be said than that there's been a difference between 2014 and especially the last two years of the law. That includes the police demonstrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u34	A meeting arrangement involves the arrangement for the discussion and is expected to last for about two hours. The minister has 12 minutes to history and three minutes to the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u35	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to speak at the Assembly Hall a report I published and have published publicly on the Schengen Team. This report was made available to the Council for the proper treatment, as it is. I am glad that I have had a positive attitude and have responded in a way that is right here and that I can discuss the report in a way that has been presented here. The report itself can be found on the Web site of the General Assembly and also on the Homepage of the Ministry of Justice. The report generally discusses the Schengen cooperation, its conduct and development, and the activities discussed at the regular meetings of the European Commission of Justice and Internal Affairs, attended by the Justice Ministers of the Schengen Community. The report is divided into three sections. First, there is a part of the border, police cooperation, security, foreign languages, and third visa cases. The daily execution of the Schengen Team in Iceland is in the hands of the Ministry of Justice. We have a representative at the U.S. embassy in Brussels who has been taking care of the interests of us for a few years. Then I'd also like to mention the office of the State Marshal who has a role, the Police Department and the Foreign Institute. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is involved in some extent in the Schengen themes, and the National Guard, Peritoneal Protection, and National Book are involved in specific specific projects related to Schengen. As far as I'm concerned, it's important to keep a tight grip on all of these aspects of our cooperation with the Schengen State of the report. This may be an aid in evaluating the benefit of Iceland's participation in Schengen and in all international cooperation. The Foreign Minister here tore up his annual report on international cooperation in general, while the Schengen case has been a little out of the report due to the location of the issues as I have described. But I would have no greater pleasure in anything than talking about it here, at least. every year. Iceland has access to interest security in the field of cooperation by participating in the development of new Schengen models. I'd like to mention that it is, for example. Unlike what we know about our cooperation at the EEA scene, where we don't have the opportunity to shape the EU types from the start. But that's what we do for the Schengen team. I also mention that the challenges we would face for a small country such as Iceland to care for the interests we would like to have, which is true in the whole international community of Iceland. Our few people simply do not have the opportunity to watch every strand at any given time. We've had very good cooperation with other Schengen countries and the North countries, including those in the European Union. Iceland has been involved in the Schengen community service since 2001, as humans know. Despite the significant increases in the scope of this cooperation over the past few years, the goals remain unchanged. They are especially twofold. It is the removal of personal surveillance and, on the other hand, certain counterarguments to meet this personal delinquency. There are counter-requisite measures consisting of consistent border control and border security regulations on the outer border and police cooperation in general between the Schengen countries. In a discussion about the participation in Iceland in the Schengen community, we are often focused on the factor involved in the deliberation of personal surveillance on the internal borders, and we all know it when we travel. This is because there is no passport check when we travel to the European Union or Schengen countries. But the other aspect is equally important. This is a consistent rule on external surveillance and the great cooperation of law enforcement personnel with the security of the Schengen citizens. The vast majority of people who travel from country to country do so for legitimate purposes. There are journeys, whether for entertainment or for employment. I have mentioned that it is totally unnecessary and pointless to engage in these trips, to end up normal. However, I have emphasized that it is very important for each sovereign state to have some perspective on the current of foreign citizens crossing the border of the State. You see, not everyone is in a legitimate place. And no state in the Western world is prepared to receive all those who want to move out of all parts of the world and/or receive any possible criminal activity that may result in an illegal stay. I emphasize that human free movement across borders is a goal in itself, and it is a great privilege to be able to cross countries without having to undergo this endless personal supervision known to us at a border service in general. This decline in internal border monitoring has called for security measures. That's where police cooperation is crucial. An important part of it is a common information system known as SIS, or in English, ◯Schengen Information System to be used. It has the right permissions of the law enforcement authorities to effectively share information between partners. Also important is the cooperation between the states on criminal rights, including considering that a person will not be victimized or punished twice for the same violation of the Schengen area. At that time, a team member has made a commitment to a consistent policy on the publishing of visas, and it is not likely that without the cooperation of visas and visa freedom, the transport service in Iceland would be somewhat poorer than it is today. I'd like to mention, however, that the Schengen community does not prevent a single state from temporarily taking up border surveillance and for objective reasons. That's how it is, for example. To this day that nine Schengens have requested recording and temporary monitoring of the internal borders. There are seven Schgeren countries currently conducting such monitoring, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Poland, Austria, Germany and France. There are countries that today take advantage of these sources from Schengen to temporary border control. In Iceland, the U.S. Marshal's Intelligence Department carries a risk assessment on the border. I have specifically requested that we be examined in this country when our neighboring countries take up temporary border surveillance, whether there is a reason for us to do the same. The premise, then, is that the application level here is increased on the basis of some risk assessment performed by the police chief. There has been no reason to do so so so. However, there is good reason to keep this in mind and to monitor the development of these issues, especially in the North countries. In particular, I would like to state that with Iceland involved in the Schengen Community, Iceland does not participate in the European Union's overall policy on the affairs of foreigners or clients. Iceland is not committed to any of those things. However, Iceland is involved in the Dublin Union, which is involved in specific matters involving foreigners, including the disfellowshipped and rejuvenating foreigners who come here for an unsurpassed stay. I can't see what Iceland would have done for me. can respond to the unprecedented flow of the sheltered searchers in the past few years without this cooperation, which is part of the Schengen community service. I'd also like to mention in particular that there may have been some misunderstandings about Schengen that if Iceland was outside of the Schengen Community, an increase of trustees could have been avoided. Of course, that is not the case. No matter what the alliances, people come and ask for asylum in lands. The Schengen countries are not at all the sole destinations of the hooligans, as Britain is an excellent example of. However, the activities of the industry ensure that those seeking here but already have an international protection application to be taken care of by another state in Schengen, receive the right and require that it end and complete the case. If this cooperation were not available, it may not be that a country in general would care for handling cases of international protection. As far as the benefits of Christian activity are concerned, then, there is more to the benefits and interests of those who seek refuge. There is some important work to be done on the border and on the police team that the public will undoubtedly be very aware of. It is a so-called Entry/Exit system that agreed on in the latter part of 2017, and it will be recorded here. Therefore, it is designed to improve the quality of border monitoring and self-activating in measuring alien residents in the Schengen region. It is a system that strengthens law enforcement authorities in fighting terrorism and crime across the border. I'd also like to mention that in 2022 the ETIAS system is scheduled to be used by the European Trade Information and Authority System. This system resembles the system the United States uses in its prescription of tourists to the country. ETIAS is designed to facilitate border control and reduce the risk of a tourist sitting on a border-based deduction. The system includes citizens who enjoy visa freedom into the Schengen area and is aimed at improving the safety of the region and achieving better control over external borders. It also includes making extensive changes to the Schengen shared information system, which I mentioned at the outset of my speech, and to its use in police and judicial cooperation in criminal affairs and border control and expulsion of nonstatutory foreigners. The objective of these changes is to improve the quality of information, including with a clear rule. I'd like to mention that Iceland was very careful with the development of this transition in Schengen and lay down, for example. to prevent the obligation to keep a so-called national copy of the SIS data system. That's what we've been doing. It is very costly and expensive, and it may not be a great purpose when not all countries do so, despite their obligation to do so, because some countries have not had the resources to do so. We opposed this with Finland, Norway, Denmark, Slovenia. After much discussion with the head of the Council and the European Commission, the conclusion was that it was not mandatory to maintain a national copy for this Schengen State. There's a fine tore up in the report. I'd like to mention it as an example of how Iceland can affect the development of a new Schengen model. We did so with our Icelandic experts, ambassadors and ministers on the committee of the Minister of Justice, the one listed here, in the European Council of Ministers. The report shows that many major projects are being developed at Schengen, which is important for Iceland to keep a close eye on. The main benefit of the partnership is free passage between countries without border control and the contribution of Dublin to the European Environment Agency, Frontex, to re-sourvement. [[The president calls.]] The report also presents challenges, but I look forward to hearing talks. Congress officials are having a discussion on this subject today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u36	Mr. President. There's every reason to say thank you. Minister of Justice for this clear report on the Schengen community service. It covers some detail the challenges we face in this cooperation and our history within, which began 20 years ago. The report clearly shows that the Schengen community service today is anything but at the beginning, e.g. has increased dramatically since the turn of the century, the tide of refugees into the region has been unprecedented and has increased dramatically since then, terrorism has become a permanent disaster in the region, and is often associated with people who have come into the area across the outer border. Mr. President. It is clear, therefore, that our cooperation is different, and this agreement is very different from the one we decided to participate in the first place. This was essential for the Schengen countries to fall from border patrol on their borders that the entire population together take careful action to strengthen and strengthen the external barrier so that the dangers could be met in the whole area. The main premise was, therefore, that the outer borders of the Member States would be trusted and followed by a uniform procedure. This has resulted in a lack, especially in recent years, of increasing refugee currents to the outer border and over it. This aspect could also be mentioned especially among new threats to cooperation. This is in the report, i.e. the recording of temporary national supervision on the inside of its borders. There seems to be an unsolved problem within the partnership that can clearly upset it, end up breaking the border on the internal borders of cooperation. Whether this problem will be successfully solved at this point may not seem to be known, but the need for cooperation is, of course, that the extra borders of Schengen will be maintained and that will serve the whole area. Many good things have resulted from this cooperation, and its benefits are thoroughly tore up in the report. It mentions: easy, easy journeys between countries without border surveillance, consistent policy on the publishing of visas, cooperation in the affairs of refugees, and finally access to police cooperation in the countries. But the final statement says that Iceland does not have the resources to support such two - sided cooperation with individual European countries. They're just saying that Iceland doesn't have a T-shirt to do that. Mr. President. It is also clear that in recent years, the total and cost of cooperation has increased, and the demands of the member countries have increased in the same way. It would be of great interest to know that this cost would be thoroughly diagnosed and introduced to the General. It's hidden in many places. For example, the last budget of 837 million is devoted to furthering border security for Schengen, which took place in 2017. Is such expenses secondary to cooperation? I believe it would be a worthy task to have such an exposé as an instrument for both direct and indirect costs of the Schengen community service. In this context, I'd like to consider just this assessment that we've obviously begun to react, but it says what it has been that it showed to be a problem with the implementation of the work here. It found that Iceland's implementation on border patrol at Keflavík Airport was largely made up of serious comments to weaknesses in the overall class of directors. Is it really so that we are not in this cooperation? Is that serious? It was believed that the amount of people needed to be missing, to improve equipment, and to improve passenger list analysis. Training and education of employees were also not considered to meet minimum standards. I suppose these financial contributions, the financial contributions of the last budget, have been endeavoring to improve these points. Therefore, it would be good to know whether these requirements of the assessment are met or to expect an increase in funds to meet those issues. It wouldn't be out of the way, Mr. President, to call for a detailed cost analysis, as I have mentioned in my speech, on the exactly what it costs us to be in this cooperation of the Schengen nations. At the same time, we will be told how much it would cost us to be out of our partnership and what possibilities there will be. Although I would especially like to mention the police work, the report says that it is impossible for us to be excluded from that partnership. It would be worth knowing what our prospects are, e.g. Cooperation with Great Britain, which has been out of Schengen forever. And Ireland. Isn't there any chance there? Somehow they do it. Somehow, their deal with the Schengen states sounds. Finally, I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for an extremely good and clear report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u37	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for her excellent review and the detailed report she has issued for the council. Even at the highest. Ministers don't agree on everything, we both seem to realize that the importance of the Schengen team is considerable for Iceland and indeed all Europe. True, I wanted a minister to agree more with me on the importance of other international cooperation, such as in the field of development and Europe, which is at least closer to me, than was heard. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who has just finished speaking. As the minister went well over, Iceland is sharing in the Schengen cohesion work, along with 25 European countries. Togetherness is aimed at ensuring the free movement of individuals in the Schengen area, in cooperation with the monitoring of the external front border of the Member States, and in fighting international crime and terrorism. Although I agree with a minister on the importance of this cooperation, I can hardly agree with her that the European Union's Schengen publication was generally okay. The government's post-assessment action list is huge, and Iceland is far from meeting its commitments as a part of this cooperation. As we have considered, cooperation is extremely important, not just for the freedom of Icelandic citizens, but for the whole continent. The fact that Iceland does not meet quality requirements and that serious problems have been identified, e.g. On the implementation of border patrol at Keflavík Airport, of course, is a very serious matter. It was not only to border patrol but also to serious weaknesses revealed in the overall Governing Body. The training and education of workers also meets no minimum human resources, equipment, and risk analysis requirements - they are also lacking in this field. I wondered if the group of painters had been put aside a little while before making serious comments. I also find it unlikely, given the magnitude of comments, that the situation has not been better handled, especially in view of the fact that this is one of the world institutions that we have the most accessible access to in the interest - care system, as observed in the highest level. Minister. There are also examples of this in the report. In other words, Iceland is on session at all levels of EU decision-making at the EU Court of Justice and Internal Affairs. V.E.G. The Minister of Ministers is thus the only secretary of Iceland who is invited to attend the EU Ministerial Conference. In this respect, we have even, and we can be more closely aware of Schengen-related issues than most of the other issues under the EEA Convention. Perhaps it is somewhat ironic to the highest degree. The minister of the political party, which in any way has fought against further involvement in the European Union, should attend or be able to sit down by the Commission meeting in the EU. There are now voices that we are even supposed to end this partnership or that we should stand out of it. As I read this report, I prophesied that such voices would be heard in this discussion and would not have to wait long. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason confirmed the suspicion. We live in such times that international work has never been as important as it is today. That's exactly what we need, more and more, closer cooperation to other countries, no less. In a world filled with extremes of hatred, suspicion, fear, and fear, it will be tolerance and cooperation, cooperation and open - mindedness that determines whether mankind is going to make progress and will prosper in having a good life on earth. We face many issues involving this, climate, poverty, and war. In climate matters, we can fall ahead primarily by example, by fulfilling our commitments, by promoting ambitious laws, and by reaching out for a practical application of international cooperation. In fact, an example of such cooperation is the induction of the third energy package, which is now awaiting the council and may stand in some members of the council here. It is a panEuropean project designed to support the EU's sensible, environmental and sustainable energy efficiency. Poverty is another huge challenge and has to do with people from other parts of the world here, but it is, of course, both the cause and the result of the third threat of war that, at least unlikely, we will experience world peace until poverty has been eliminated. There is a big concern that inequities are increasing in the world, and today the richest percent has as much as the other 99%. These are the figures that have repeatedly been chewed up here in a chair. And in Iceland this inequities is also increasing, and 5% of Iceland's population has as much possessions as the other 95%. It is, therefore, an excellent contribution for Iceland to combat roughness. But it may be a small thing. Much of our international commitments are also involved in developing cooperation. That's where I think the government is ambitious. The government only reaches the end of the financial period to half of the UN's goals on the proportion of national production being measured for Western countries. Of course, it's below all the caves. Finally, there is war. Of course, its consequences need not be varied. Although Iceland will not play a decisive role in combating it, we have a lot of responsibility and can exert ourselves effectively, especially in humanitarian and humanitarian efforts and emphasis on peace and equality. With prolonged wars, violence, and persecution as well as the negative impacts of climate climates there is a need for humanity, the need to help out outsiders who travel into the Schengen area. Here we can, chief. President, shoulder a much greater responsibility, especially to those in a delicate position who seek international protection, especially to children. In fact, I've thought how much it was. The Minister of Justice has completely ignored the will of the Generals and has pressed down to this group by the regulations of last year that the United States and others have criticized, and I actually don't like the new changes proclaimed in foreign law and international protection. Mr. President. Finally, hiccups. Minister reviewed the measures for reforms that Iceland needs to undertake in order to meet the conditions of the Schengen team. The improvements will be predictable at cost, but from now on, I believe the only right thing to raise money to the jury considerably, as is expected in the next year's financial bill. I therefore encourage ministers to be careful, especially of Iceland's team participation in the field of cooperation, and to think further on the future in reform work and the policy of the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u38	Mr. President. I want to begin, like other speakers in the discussion, thank you very much. Minister of Justice for reporting this report to the council. I think she'll give us a good chance to discuss our participation in Schengen, both in general and also in particular. The existing report is a good report that should be designed to draw out the facts and developments that we need to monitor in these areas. A discussion about Schyngen has sometimes been in my opinion in a bit of an exposé, especially when we have been criticized for our involvement in it. It must always be weighed, carefully considered, in which international activities we share, and what we do not do. It requires a clear and reasonable assessment of the benefits of cooperation, whether these benefits outweigh any benefits it may bring. It was when we became members of the Schengen community at the time. And although it is, of course, true that the Schengen community has made a big change, and the environment we are dealing with in this regard has certainly changed significantly over the two decades since we decided to become a member of Schngen, at least it is my conclusion that the benefits are considerably greater than the results. In principle, I would like to support it by cooperating with border and law enforcement authorities in other European countries is a key factor for us to be able to carry out our duties in this area. Access to information systems is a key element in this relationship. I have no reason to believe that there is a chance for us to make some two-way agreements with European countries that will replace such access. I think it doesn't matter what we say, -- what should we say? - puts a lot of men on the border, I don't think it matters, but mostly access to data, access to information. Cooperation with authorities in other countries is a key factor when it comes to evaluating the risks associated with the arrival of individuals or groups so far. I say for my part that the benefits seem to me to amort my misdemeanors to a considerable degree, and in all respects. At any rate, my conclusion is that there is no basis for us to take our part in the revision of Schngen. Of course, we need to keep a close eye on evolution, follow up the discussions, discuss with each other at regular intervals whether cooperation is as relevant today as it was 10 to20 years ago. Of course. This is what we need to do about all our decisions. But I have no conviction that there is reason to break our relationship with the Schengen community at the moment. On the contrary, I believe that increasing challenges in this field, which have been traced here in the talks of other speakers, make Schengen community service more important than it was at the beginning. That's more of a challenge. Certainly there is extra stress on borders, only if we take the tenfold of the foreign tourists going through Leifs son of Erik in a few years, that is, of course, more stress. It makes it necessary to place more money, more manpower, more equipment to handle border control there, and take care of it. A great deal of the comments that have been made in 2017 are in such indications that these factors need to be enhanced in our activities. This has already been failed by the current government and the budget and budgetary plans in financial programs indicate that the government takes very seriously and is putting considerable money to correct the comments made. These are factors that we need to keep in mind in this discussion. I mentioned earlier, increased number of tourists, increased arrivals of foreigners in the country that have multiplied and have been very important to us economically and to our society during the period of building up that we have seen in recent years. But there is also great pressure on refugees. Like any other European nation, we have not been part of it. Of course, such situations also make it important to work with neighboring countries to cope with the pressures they face. I think it's important that we take these matters regularly for discussion. A minister's report is a good entry into the council under current circumstances. When discussing financial matters, it is reasonable to believe that the factors that have been brought up here and to address the financial issues involved in this series are relevant. But from my point of view, I'd say that if people really wanted to talk, they would suggest that somehow we should leave the Schengen together, I would call upon men also to come up with some practical ideas about how it will be done so that we can continue our role in this field, that we can continue to ensure the security involved, while, on the way of maintaining freedom of travel as far as possible. These are things I'd like to bring into the discussion at this stage, but thank the minister again for her introduction in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u39	The members of Parliament remind us that in this press conference, in this case three minutes and fifteen seconds, the number of speakers leading up to the meeting will be delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u40	Mr. President. I thank you very much for this report that I find very revealing and informative. I'm one of those who are more closely associated with the Schengen team. I think it's made Iceland very well. Of course, I know the best part about the law enforcement program and the SIS and the SIS office. I'm generally aware that people should have a fairly free journey across the border, but even though I'm on that view and want to welcome most people, I know that it is necessary for us to have a good overview of who stays here at any given time. Today, criminals and terrorists travel like others, and we need a network of information to keep track of who are coming to the country and who are also enrolled into the system, helping other countries to know who is coming to them. Iceland plays a very important role in Schengen because we are often the external borders of Schengen, e.g. When it comes to a flight from the United States. That is why when we were criticized that we were not well - trained at the Cheflavor airport, the staff could not handle the systems well enough. I understand they're responding. This has to do with what we were talking about earlier about law enforcement, that we've been missing people. We need trained people. I don't think we have any chance of maintaining as good law enforcement as we do today without using such systems, without making use of cooperation with other European countries and receiving strength from them. I'm not a political party that's highly European, but I like Schengen, and I don't see that these two things have to go together. As I said before, there is a feeling that all the improved technology of that sort is going to be added. In fact, I think a system like SIS will help when the trustees arrive. Having a good system and a good record speeds up the payment and shortens people's waiting times, that we are in good contact with other countries. Rather than having people wait for months, they can get answers much sooner if information about them is recorded in a common system. I bind, e.g. high hopes for a system that is developing, Entry/Exit, that it can help us with the escape currents that have just come to Europe. It is clear that countries have been able to close their internal borders, although it is not Schengen's policy. Although I can show it a certain way, I do not like it. I'm sorry. I wanted to have as many borders open as possible, and I think it's getting shorter that they're gonna open up. I was running between Slovenia and Croatia this summer and I got to try this Schengen system where I could drive all free out of Slovenia, 10 meters, until I reached Croatia. There I also saw how the outer border works. There were long rows of people trying to get into the Schengen area through Slovenia. The report says that we may at times be too small to fulfill everything, and of course we may have to accept it. But I don't think we're supposed to let our dough down, we have to do our best. I think it's important that we have such a partnership. We must accept the universe, too. People go pretty fast between countries, flying and other, so we need some equipment. If we talk about being too small to be in Schengen, I think we're too small to stand outside and we're going to have all this surveillance and databases. It's my input into the discussion. I encourage us to proceed to Schengen. I'd like to emphasize how important it is for our border guards and the law to be in there. I thank you again for the report I thought, as previously said, very illuminating and clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that it's a little strange how many in this discussion so far have talked about this report and the Schengen community service, such as it's a question of being or not being in cooperation. It is obvious that Schgeren is one of our most important international cooperation projects, and it ensures widespread freedom of movement throughout Europe as well as the security of the public by taking important care of people who could threaten peace. You were right. A senator before me said it's important that we use this tool to keep the border open, but we also try to develop it according to the incident. This is a balance between public security and individual freedoms, and Schengen has achieved this balance very well over the years. Sadly, those who may be finding foreigners all the way out of sight and see threats all over the world may seek to expand Schengen's surveillance role far beyond what is needed. Keep in mind that the Schengen team has been doing a hell of a good job. The information system guarantees social security to a range unknown to the states of Schengen. It's working. Granted, there are problems, some more large, but we also bear in mind that not all problems will be solved within the framework of the system in which they existed. For example, there has been talk of the refugee stream here, and it has been great, but it is neither worse nor better because of Schengen. The current is naturally rooted in problems in international politics and conflicts. This should be an effort for all European countries and all the worlds to work together to solve. Schengen has been successful through all of this and has worked properly. A report by the Minister of Justice on the Schengen Cooperation states that on April 6, 2017, the Regulation has taken place that the Europeans are now undergoing systematic monitoring over the external borders of the Schengen region. Until the implementation of the change, Europeans received a so - called minimal monitoring, which consisted primarily of active monitoring in the case of persistent offenders or those who were wanted. Others were registered to as little as possible. These changes were aimed at improving the safety of the Schengen area following repeated terrorist attacks in Europe. A year, or as the report says, by permission of the President: The majority of the terrorists who organized and committed the terrorist attacks in Europe during 2015, 2016, and the first part of 2017 were Europeans... Iceland took advantage of this external checkup, but since October 2017, monitoring at Keflavour Airport has been carried out. The question is, What has been the effect of such a supervision? What standards are used to measure their success? The report also says, with the permission of a president: It has been concluded that the risk of terrorism can be reduced by systematic surveillance, active risk analysis and national information sharing. It is strange to point to such things without referring to any significant evidence of them. Big claims need big proof. In view of this statement, we should ask: How do the actions discussed in this report affect us? How will they affect the rights of their citizens, their privacy, and the lives of the common people in general? They also need to ask how the so - called war against the concept of terrorism has gone. Is the general public really safer now than in the past, when extensive monitoring measures on the limitations of people's rights were adopted following the attack in the United States of 2001? I'm sure there's some things that have improved, but I've never seen a real assessment of what this has worked for and what this is just to create an image of security without us having real security. It may be more correct to say that the world's security conditions are growing primarily as liberal democracy spreads, general well - being is growing, and institutions are building their roles better, and the people feel that their rights are recognized. This whole thing helps. In general, this is going very well in the world. Yes, it can be done better. Many countries are back, but we are not. Our approach must be to not install any further security theater. We need to stop creating some virtual around our safety. Rather, we need to make more sure that real security standards exist, and they are certainly there, working better. The worst outcome factor was Iceland's commitment to border surveillance. We do not fix it by increasing the surveillance of our citizens or by registering people who travel to certain countries. No, the report says that there are serious problems on the project at Keflavour Airport, that there are serious weaknesses in the overall rule of border control, and e.g. the need for human resources to meet quality requirements. They need to improve equipment and risk analysis, including passenger list analysis. It has been mentioned that training and education do not meet minimum qualifications required by employees. Let's fix it all because it would help us a great deal. If we really want our security to be secure and that we at the same time find this wonderful balance between people's personal rights and their freedom to travel, the path is obvious. We need more people who do the work. We need more funding so that people can be as qualified as possible to work at any given time, and we need to put more emphasis on fixing the real problems that exist, both in the border surveillance and also in the world, because there are certain threats in the world. We need to do so rather than expand the surveillance industry and limit people's freedoms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u42	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice for the report in which Schengen is very well reviewed, its development and its position today. As reported in the report, Iceland began to participate in the Schengen Community work on March 25, 2001, together with Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden. Since then, great changes have been made in the number of tourists and the travel of the Icelanders to and from the country, as well as a growing increase in the arrival of refugees and fugitives into the country. As mentioned in this report, Schengen is basically a two-way team, with the permission of a president: ▪ Other forms of personal deduction by personal surveillance on the inner border of the Schengen countries and, on the other hand, on the counterweight measures, consisting mainly of the uniform monitoring rules on the external borders of the Schengen area and the cooperation of police forces among the participants, including the Schengen Information System, in order to ensure safety of citizens in the Schengen area. It is quite clear that a small island like Iceland will benefit in many ways from being in international cooperation, such as Schengen. The report is very clear, and it paints a good picture of the work and challenges involved. The benefits and defects of cooperation can be said to come in the same detail, as noted in the talks of other members of Congress, i.e. The free movement of people in the region, where common tourists enjoy not taking border patrols at national level, but at the same time it can be said that organized gangs have larger areas of action, can increase their activity, and pursue cross-border crime. In the Schengen community service, we enjoy good cooperation with law enforcement and security organizations, as well as the uniform rules and measures for visas, the treatment of refugees and people who apply for international protection. The report reviews the great challenges we have faced because of the changes mentioned earlier. In addition, the challenges of the assessment taken in Iceland are reviewed in 2017, but this assessment should be done every five years to monitor how to comply with the protocol. According to the report, there are a number of urgent and costly projects that have been met in various ways that have begun to be carried out. Then there's a very interesting chapter on the Order of Dublin. The present system is neither self-sustained nor thought to be a fair distribution of responsibility among participants. Few member countries are responsible for most candidates for international protection due to geographic conditions. Changes have been made since 2016, taking the lead in improving reasonableness and effectiveness, but it has been difficult to get back together. The report reports that in the beginning of February, Member States have adopted temporary measures intended to bridge the gap between Dublin and further mention of what is meant by temporary measures. It is said that the continuation of the case will be clarified over the next few weeks. It's curious to know what it's gonna be like. Iceland is then requested to reevaluate its views on possible access to the European Support Committee on international protection. It may be important to have access to information and training, or, as the report says, by permission of the president: The access to information plus training provided by the Agency can increase both the quality and speed of the application procedure in Iceland. I believe it is important that we weigh the benefits of improved and accelerated treatment procedures against financial commitments in the validation of additional Member States on the contract. A number of challenges lie ahead, which were discovered in the last assessment of the implementation and application of Schengen's regulations in Iceland. It is reported that emergency procedures and future policy measures have been addressed. On March 25, 2001, the United States began sharing in the Schengen work, which was 18 years ago. The number of tourists has increased and from the country at that time, as well as a great change in the arrival of refugees and refugees to the country. Although recent travel reductions have been observed, or at least at least without increase, it is clear that the work ahead is challenging if we are to meet our requirements. We also talk extensively at the high Council of the United States to increase the number of portals in the country, and to distribute the tourists more effectively in the country, that they come elsewhere. It requires further action on the part of the government to ensure the monitoring and security of border protection regardless of the development of the Schengen Community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u43	Mr. President. Thanks to the Supreme One, it is a kindly and obligated start. Minister of Justice for a report on the Schengen community service. The report is extensive and not only describes how Iceland became a member of Schengen, what Schengen is, and then some components are carefully reviewed. Thanks to that. A fine example of important international cooperation, an important European team, is the work we are participating in. It should be obvious to most people that the group I belong to is that this type of cooperation is very important and will result in great success. I think it is proved in the excellent report on this issue how important it is for Iceland to participate in such cooperation, leading to a much better and more efficient way in which the Icelandic government can handle tasks that are inherently international, in this case of Europeans. I thought it was good too, in the highest language. The minister to participate is important, and there is no room to find the minister in order to continue this cooperation and do it as well as possible. I also liked to hear that the Minister well described how Iceland's fleet with other countries can influence the development of the system. It shows you and gives evidence that smaller countries such as Iceland, they have reason to argue, can change order as large and powerful countries are on, in this case, the European Union. When I refer to the recommendations for the Schengen information system, which is short-cut SIS, the minister's case and the report showed that several countries presented important changes. It is with this cooperation, like everything else, that it needs to be suggested if it is to succeed. In the report, we may not have done as well as we should, but we are trying to fail, and I think we should take this very seriously because this contract is extremely important. I don't think it's wrong for a man to talk, I'm afraid to say easy - thank you for what you've done. A senator - about the value of this contract. [[Up front.]] Observed e.g. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason wanted to make an assessment at the cost of the contract. That, of course, is all good and good. He also wanted an analysis of how much it would cost us to try to do all of this ourselves. But his case did not reveal anything, at least not in the talk he gave, on whether to evaluate the benefits of cooperation and the advantages and shortcomings of not participating in it. It is now that not everything will be measured at the end of the dollar and the peninsula. I would like to quote the words of Stefán, son of Eiríksson, who spoke at a meeting of exorbitant for about five months ago. Stefán the son of Eiríksson, who formerly served at the Ministry of Justice, was there before a police officer in the capital area and came to Iceland's deal on Schengen at the time. Since then, he has known this cooperation in his own eyes. With President's permission, I'll have to witness to him: I think the strength of this cooperation for Iceland is in this side plan for all of them. What is involved in the Schengen Convention -- - - -- this police team that is involved in this, which is really true of all international cooperation. We'll feel stronger when we're involved in it and we'll share in developing it and sharing it and sharing information in any area it's rather than standing outside. To me, this is so in an obvious way about police cooperation, cooperation with criminal rights, excommunications, and then this cooperation involving immigrants and inmates. I think if we hadn't gone to Schengen, we would have been isolated in many ways, and not only in the European community, but also in this Norwegian partnership, and it was such a common estimate at that time. I think that Stefán hit the question on the head, that this type of cooperation is in itself a question of whether we want to and can qualify for real international work. The conclusion of the report, Stefán and me, and the restoration is that, of course, it is absolutely correct. It is therefore unfortunate that those who are opposed to international cooperation, at least to the Europeans, should not be mentioned as involvement in the European Union. It is often that way, although it does not apply to everyone. From their ranks, there are voices that try to make the Schengen community suspicious and therefore feel the most precarious, calling it a burden, and that society is going to seduce society to live up to its commitments. I think that when people discuss Schengen in this context, it's a little like in the old days, that when they had to take a short break of China, they would like to talk about Albania. I think people are trying to figure out some way to make all European partnerships suspicious by focusing on the Schengen community service and counting it as expensive. This leads to the pouring in of criminals, coming in streaming in refugees, and imagining that we can all deal with these things ourselves, there's no problem at all. Passing control on the border should only be recorded, and that's the end of it. Let's not spend money on the Schengen, and stop all the intense cooperation involved, we can just do it ourselves. That's what I think is dangerous in modern times. I think it's very dangerous because all the facts are drawn in order to increase international cooperation, increase our participation in European cooperation, will bring us great benefits but few defects. To think you can stand by yourself in this world -- I don't know what to call it -- it's some disease of imagination that's obsessed with many people. They seem to ignore the way global, international, international, human rights work, cooperation in peace, security, work. When you stand alone, you have to sit and stand just as others tell you to sit and stand. So my conclusion is, we're supposed to protect the Schengen team. We're supposed to increase our participation. We are to do all we can to do well in this cooperation, which is of utmost importance to us as it is of utmost importance to our fellow workers in this cooperation. I don't think we should approach the subject because it's all about dollars and change. It's about us doing our part in this important European partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u44	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for a good and extensive report on the Schengen community service. Like what? paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson told me before I look who I am, but if it's a panic message from someone who's not quite in on this line or something else, I'm going to leave it alone. How important it is for us to cooperate with our closest cousins and neighbors! There is no question about it. The European Economic Convention gave us access to the Europe's inner market, where we really needed to be able to sell our products and trade, to get into that market. In fact, I can only say that since that contract was signed, there has been a great deal of water and an amazing change in the way you feel that even though you are only a third part of that European community work, we are almost completely involved. It's the feeling you get when you come here, you flood all day and day in, and we don't do anything but stamp them out. When it comes to the Schngeren, I agree completely that it is extremely important that we work together together with the nations around us in these times that we all know, especially when we look to the threat of global terrorism today. I'm going to come down to one small part of the Schengen team that's considered extremely positive. Then I'm not talking about the law that matters naturally but about making travel easier for tourists. Of course, we're all supposed to be smart with the passport if we were to be asked, so if we were to draw attention at the airport that the scouts would like us to make a further report for us, but I've traveled quite a lot in the Schengen area, and the strange thing is that you're only at the bridge when a man walks through the gate. I'm taking off the ring, taking off my shoes, and I'm afraid I have to take off my glasses, my earrings, everything. And then I added it for fun, because I simply forgot it there. I didn't expect to get dressed too. So I ask, " What is so remarkable about the addition of my passport? ' Who can invite anyone to his home without knowing who comes through the door? I'm not there at all. I'd like to invite everyone over for a visit. We have 3 million tourists a year, and I say, "Be welcome and help us build a great economy. " We cannot lose our largest and most powerful resource. But my happiness, I think this has become a bit of a twin. I even have to show my ID when I fly to Akureyri. Even if I speak Icelandic almost impregnable and even hard Norwegian, no one will believe I'm an Icelander and I need to show ID. We've only got to land here. If we're to keep shoving as we always do when we fly within the Schengen area, I think it's all right that we show passports. I can't see anything, so I can't stand it. It really makes me feel safe. It makes me feel comfortable. Then, if individuals are asked for a passport or ID for any reason when they come here, they may have nothing to do with it. And then what? It is conditional in the agreement that if a person is on his journey within the territory, he should have it ready for conditional, valid, and proven to be true. When they've stopped pushing me to the airport when I'm flying from country to country, they can stop asking me for my passport. But I second, these are security measures. There are a lot of security measures because of the threat we've been facing. It is also a big part of security to present documents, so we know who are the ones who board our machines or leave the table. I don't think there's anything wrong with knowing who would bring us home, which is really true of all other nations, even though we don't have jurisdiction over them. Let's work together, let's be friends, and all of that, but for happiness, why should we be getting passports that almost cost our eyes for the ordinary Iceland if we don't get to swing them here and there every time we fly, just like you have to rip off your shoes and I don't know what and what? That was my message about Schengen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u45	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this report and the discussion that has taken place. We've been in this partnership for 18 years, and it's not all European countries. The British don't agree with that. It is of great interest that such a large country is not part of this cooperation. I believe, Madam President, that Schngen is not the only way in border control and security in this area. What I find interesting about this report is the review of us, whether we were doing it. It says on page 18. 7 In the report, the assessment is generally done well. I can't quite see that the person who writes this in the report now has a general understanding of what is so slightly lower, but it simply says that we had a fall average. Then the assessment must be a function score. So I don't fully understand this presentation in the report. There's a lot of money being put into this system. It was only the last budget of 836 million, and in the budget of 2019,22022, that was 3.5 billion dollars. We need to respond to all the indications, and this requires money. The question is, Is it not possible that we could just trust ourselves on this project with all the money that is clearly involved? This cooperation is made from personal supervision to facilitate free movement, one of the so - called four freedoms of the agreement. However, there are countries in there that, in spite of this, have their own surveillance, such as Austria, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Germany, to name someone. So there are not all the countries involved, and you wonder if it's necessary for us to be in it. The work was to contribute to the comfort between countries. But now border control has changed a lot in a short period of time. We know that it has become much more developed with a variety of technologies and is moving much faster. We go to the United States and send all kinds of information ahead because they need to study the person coming to the country. In most cases, this will work and there are no long rows, etc. There has been a marked change in this regard. There's something else in this report that interests me, Madam President, but I see that time is running out. On page 18. 7 The assessment is reported as being generally fine, but it does not indicate that there are major objectives on the project, serious weaknesses in the management structure, performance does not meet quality requirements, training, and education in employees do not meet minimum standards and measures to improve this are predictable at high cost. I cannot help but say that this report is very negative to our performance in this cooperation, and it raises the question of whether we are willing to spend endless money on the task to live up to the standards discussed. And the question is, Are we on the right track? And you ask yourself, " How on earth could we ever be so weak in this cooperation, Madam President at the end of the day? ' We've been in this for 18 years. Have we learned nothing at this time, in those 18 years, so we have to add 3.5 billion to this cooperation because we have not been able to succeed? It's just a lot of money. I would have liked to see them somewhere else, e.g. To improve the favour of the minimum paid in the community, in the future chicken struggle. There's a lot of interesting in this report that would have to be discussed better, because of the time I would have preferred to introduce it. But finally, we'll find that it is, for example. The last words say there's a violation, and so on. I think I have to say, Mrs. President, as I said at the outset, that this report is a rebuke, and it is absolutely worth considering if we cannot quite cope with it ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u46	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for reviewing her report on the Schengen community service which she has submitted to the General Assembly. First, let me discuss just the importance of international cooperation for a small and small island like Iceland. In the final words of a report, it's U.S.A. Ministers report that as with all international cooperation, Iceland needs to assess its benefits of participation in the Schengen community that has grown dramatically over the past few years. The number of participants has increased greatly, and as the work of cooperation has increased significantly, there has been an increasing number of regular activities, as well as an increasing flow of people to the territory in search of international protection. According to the secretary's report, this number has declined again, while the situation in Europe was deemed stable. But how do we benefit from this cooperation? Those who have spoken against have claimed that the Schengen community is leading to an unorthodox approach to crime by increasing organized activities that were going to occur all over and may even hear these words from the Trustee of the Generals. When you go down to their stitches, it seems that this is not correct and makes it so because 98% of the tourists who come to the country travel through the Cheflavour Airport and monitor them so as to be quiet. They may even be asked for a passport, in contrast to what was presented in the case at the moment. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. As is often the case in our international work, we do not have the best option to care for Iceland's interests. The number of workers who regularly take care of the Schengen Department has not increased in terms of the growth of projects, so we obviously have to consider, if we are going to take care of this seriously, to increase their number of employees. The report also shows that some contracts we have come to negotiate are unsigned in the government's drawer because of lack of financial support. These include the European Support Agency Convention on international protection, which is responsible for strengthening and developing the cooperation of international protection issues as well as the coordination of support to the Schengen Member States. The government in Norway, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein are formally involved in this cooperation, but unfortunately the Icelandic government has neither signed nor validated our agreement. Is it sad that we choose to stand by instead of taking part seriously with all the rights and responsibilities that come with it? The report also shows that the Icelandic government has received the yellow card and, in fact, the red card when it comes to protecting the external borders of the Schengen area in an acceptable way. As with other infrastructures in Iceland, it seems that there has not been a success of the Icelandic government, and then the international community carries and sends us a hard line, and we have made a commitment to this project. The lack of manpower on the Cheflavor airport in order to meet the quality requirements is recommended and thus is a serious factor in our contribution to this cooperation. The training and education of the workers was inadequate, and they do not meet the minimum requirements in this field, and the government must dress in a book. Not everyone can be expected to do everything for us, as did the youth who would not want to break the laundry. We must also work at making contracts. If we want to keep things in order, either in our peaceful country or anywhere else in the Schengen area, we have to do our part. This is a worldwide partnership, and we will benefit only by contributing a little more. It's going to separate itself over and over again. Madam President. I would like to use the final minutes of this talk to talk briefly about the texture of the report. The Schengen cooperates on a number of factors, including how we treat other people. I thought that reading the report was a little too important to close the area and how we manage to get rid of those in the area rather than look at the things that turn toward humanity and how we, the Schengen Community Union, can do everything we can to enhance human kindness, show humanity, and ensure the rights of the group. The world scene is man - made. For example, during a civil war in the land of Yemen and Syria, for example, for years and for many citizens have fled from it. Sadly, we have not shown anyone who has been seeking international protection to be more relaxed. On the contrary, we have exerted ourselves vigorously to reflect on the responsibility of the countries close to those countries. So it is not true what was said in the case of the highest court. Minister of Justice that candidates for international protection are due to a rules of order for treatment of a reception state, for more often than not, the person is sent to the home state, in spite of obvious need. Madam President. There's nothing to account for human rights in the highest report. Minister of Justice. I'm sorry. I'm also sorry I didn't see anything in the highest report. A minister of fellow feeling, kindness, and solidarity. I am confident that such a course would bring us more prosperity and happiness against all social groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u47	A respectable president. I want to be like everybody else first by saying thank you very much. Minister for bringing in this report and having it done on its own, and, in fact, being amazed at us, why. Councilmen have not thought of requesting this report, as has been done over the years. The discussion about the Schengen teaming feels that at least, a respectable president, often in error. At the beginning of this discussion, I felt that we were very agreeing in this hall, but it's fine if there was a little more life in the discussion. It is clear that not everyone shares exactly the same opinion when it comes to the importance of the Schengen team. I think the report gives me a clear view of the cooperation and the importance of it. Of course, this is part of the four freedoms and freedoms of movement. I would personally want the world to be perfect and here, people could travel absolutely freely, and we could go anywhere in the country. Sadly, though, the world is not completely perfect, and it is necessary to have some perspective on things and some borders. I must admit, a respectable president, that I don't often stand on the bridge outside a Leifs station like hell. paritaprevir Sæland Goland described it earlier. Actually, I think it's a great option and it's nice not to always be showing ID when I travel. In fact, some airlines have made it a requirement to have a valid passport, and I know airlines who haven't taken up such rules for a long time, and I've been badly obliged to be refused to come aboard when my passport had slipped out two days before. I like freedom of movement and I want to continue to enjoy it, but as we've done here in the discussion, it's just a small part or one part of the Schengen community service. Police cooperation between countries is very important, and the information systems that the police have access to through the Schengen team. In his speech earlier, a minister did well. The rate of organized crime is always increasing and increasing. In the past, it may have been drug smuggling, which was the major part of organized crime, but today has taken over a human hall, which is, of course, the largest and most terrible factor in all organized crime. I find it very difficult to imagine that we would be better able to eliminate such calamities or that we will be alone with them instead of cooperating with all these countries with the information banks and the knowledge in which they live. In this regard, there has been talk of the funds we need to spend in cooperation. This may have come to a large extent now because it is clear that we have not been able to do what we should, and the report gives us specific details on our work. We need to step in, and I see no better than that we have responded to all the major factors and are systematically working to solve them. I think it's important. It is, in effect, hard to imagine, like the otter. paritaprevir The Birgir men of Þórarinsson talked about earlier, that this money was better spent on something else. If we weren't in the Schengen team and took care of our border guard alone and out of cooperation with others, would that really cost less money? It's very difficult for me to understand that approach. Well, obviously, time goes way too fast here, because I was going to go over other factors. I'd like to raise a question at the end of the question to the Minister regarding the position of temporary surveillance on the inside border of five Schengen countries. There have been a few cases of specific leaveovers and last served as a release in October 2018, if I understand this correctly in the report. What is the minister's vision of their development? Many predicted that internal border patrols, e.g. Downs and Swes would be a premium of disfellowshipping for the Schengen community, which I certainly hope is not. How does the minister visualize evolution in this regard? I don't think I can get over any more, but I'd like to at the end of the study to overture the importance of Internet defenses, as a minister did in a good way. It must help us when it comes to being in the Schengen team to have access to the information and knowledge that they have there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u48	Madam President. I want to be like others to thank the highest. Minister for this report, which is clear; it contains useful information. I'm in favor of the Schengen team, and I find this money very well spent. The report is not white, let's say, the intermediate degree. Clearly, there is something else that has to be done. I think that when people look to today, we must all agree that the free movement and personal surveillance on the Schengen border must be more comfortable than the rest, and that we would probably not want to go back. The report says that for monitoring the interior border, the Member States set up consistent rules on the outer border, and this is the case, as has been said here, an extensive police cooperation involving, including, the use of police, as follows. This SIS system, which is the integrated information system used by law enforcement authorities of all Schengen countries, is the information provided on both individuals and products. In this context, offices are referred to as the SINNE office under the International Department of State Marshals. And then who's using this system? It's the police who do border patrols and monitoring of foreigners and other cooperations in the Schengen area of narcotics, weapons, and the fight against organized crime and terrorism. That's what I think is one of the biggest mails in this. V.E.G. A minister came up with a financial committee and introduced his plans, including Because of the others, as we are killed here, serious problems in the project at Keflavík Airport and weaknesses in the lawsuit's governance - that there is a lack of resources and that the quality and price paid could not be followed as well. This 837 million people were at the price of the equipment, and I remember 44 places. So there's a lot of cleaning up going on here, and I think there's something that must get us better when the next assessment takes place. As we have also noted, these are no small circumcisions that Schengen has been facing in the past few years. When we look at all this number of refugees from 2015 or perhaps just before, especially then, and the terrorist attacks that have been made in the countries around us, that we cannot overlook. I'm afraid we've seen people who are involved in organized crime. Mansal was mentioned here as one of the miserable covens of organized crime, but, of course, so many other things. It also mentions Frontex, i.e. The European border and coastal environment for which considerable changes are being made, e.g. the number of headquarters staff who have been doubled. Increased emphasis was made on the Agency's activities due to weakness assessment, risk analysis and cross-border risk assessment, and the Schengen State's obligation to contribute on instruments for joint action of Frontex. The money there has increased considerably, but it may have been slower. I also find it helpful to report here that the European Commission has added emphasis on significantly extending the surface of border guards. Iceland may be running low and low on land, not adding as much money to Frontex extra work as the costs of national border control. These are some systems that are underneath here. Often there may be a focus on something, since it is not on people's lips every day. I admit I didn't know all of this when I read this report. That is why this review also made it good to go through. It speaks of an Entry/Exit system speaking of registration coming and leaving the Schengen area. There, the main purpose of improving border quality is to monitor the time of foreigners in the Schengen area automatically. This system, as I said earlier, strengthens law enforcement authorities against terrorism and crime across the border. Then, too, Schngen Border Code refers to the Europeans as a systematic monitoring of external borders across the European Union. This may be what foreigners have done forever. These are proposed changes that contribute to the safety of repeated terrorist attacks on Europe during the past year. That's what we may have heard, unfortunately, so much in the news, in France and elsewhere where the perpetrators and others who planned and conducted these attacks were Europeans, some of whom had traveled on the outer borders of Schngen, even to Syria and back, or from other countries. As I said, the Commission proposed a proposal for extensive changes to the Schengen rules, the SFS. That, including, matters. Police and judicial cooperation in criminal affairs, monitoring and expulsion of non-statutory foreigners in the Schengen area. The cost of action is involved. There we met a compromise on the part of the motions that deals with the national copies of the information SIS that actually came through by taking an active part in the work being done. There must be an example of the importance of our having people there. It also speaks of temporary monitoring of the inner border and the change in Schengen Borders Code when it comes to temporary monitoring of the interior border. It was the Commission's presentation of a proposal for the adjustment of regulations that served as a temporary recording of the internal border. As soon as the proposal was published, it was emphasized that the elimination, as has only been discussed, was one of Schengen's primary criteria. It is important that countries that continue to have these limitations and continue and have just increased their time - despite the fact that there should not be an opportunity to increase this time, to continue on this vehement journey - apparently continuing. Then I wanted to talk about the foreign languages and discuss what is presented here on the safe list of nationalities. I have always felt that there is no reliable list of nationalities. The world is changing very fast, and to me it is not so that we can decide today that a kingdom is safe, since it may not be that way tomorrow. At least, in my opinion, when people are looking for international protection. I thought it'd be nice to see, because we've also been talking about the Order of Dublin many times, that opinions are very changing, but ministers have chosen to follow it quite rigidly. I have rather opposed this rule, i.e. ... themoment here. It shows that today the system is not self-sustained, or does not seem fair enough to distribute responsibility among members of the Member States, normal. The rules themselves may not have been thought up in this way at the time. She was more thinking about having the administration in one place. This is not to say that the Mediterranean countries that have been treated with a flood of refugees are to be left alone with the problem. That was not the thought of a time when the Dublin Protocol was set and may have been the reason for the need to make changes. We always have to think about the people, people in trouble. It needs to be fair, not just a system. In this regard, there are new recommendations that can be said to include fundamental changes in the system or a so - called fair system based on both the collective and the defined minimum responsibility of each individual State. A new system is supposed to be more reasonable, so the responsibility for international protection applications will be distributed evenly in Member States when excessive pressure develops on individual Member States. There we need to be reasonable and humane, as mentioned above, not just the carts. So I feel that there's a reason to be tore up here, as tore in the report, that the surfaces are starting to touch so many places. I can understand that the situation is different in countries that are difficult to reach. Perhaps this will lead to a transition that Sweden and Germany have established as a responsible and fair system in an effort to reach a conclusion. Everybody seems to agree that we can't keep things on the way the system is. Finally, we have the deportation order and the re-entry order. It suggests that there is a change to the development of a new system on the border to speed up the reimburse individuals who have already received a protection so that the system will be more efficient and the deadline will be shorter and the process done so that those who are aware of not having a stay in the country will not need to wait for weeks and months and even years. We have contributed quite a bit of money just to try to speed up the process. Although it's still fragile, I think we're moving forward in it, and it's supposed to be a celebration. Of course, I want us to welcome more people and let more people into our country. It's the labor force, for example, but then we should just take in more refugees. There are various rural areas, e.g. in the country, volunteering their efforts to welcome refugees, which is why we should unite in my opinion. There are some proposed changes to the role of the CEAS and it is urgent that Iceland reevaluates the Agency's activities. It is said that access to information, as well as training by the Agency, can improve the quality and speed of the application procedure in Iceland. I'm asking if the cost is involved. It is reported that this is extensive and costly, but Foreign Institutes and Foreign Committees have declared that they will benefit from this. So I'd like to ask the minister if she knows how much it might cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u49	V.E.G. President. We'll talk to the top of the report. Minister of Justice on the Schengen Community. I like it like the rest of us. Congress members who have participated in this discussion thanking this report and the discussion, of course important. I think it's important, as done in the report and in its introduction - and I think it applies to most of the areas and things we're discussing here - to remind us why we're taking part, for example. in this cooperation and how it comes about, and maybe even less about what it's about. We have been involved in this cooperation since March 25, 2001, when we Icelanders and I share with Danmerk, Finland, Sweden, and Norway. It was in its time to serve the best interests of the Norwegian passport team that all the North countries would apply for the membership of the Schengen area at the same time. But Finland, Sweden and Denmark, when EU Member States were first to apply with them, were aware that all the North countries would be involved. The idea of a free journey can be traced back to the Treaty of Rome, 1957, when the Norwegian Passage Association also developed. Because of historical and geographical views, Norway could not have been involved, and we would have stood one nation outside the cooperation. This can be read in a discussion of the subject when we recorded it in a synonym, if I recall correctly. This is also presented in a fine report on the pros and cons of the Schengen Coalition, performed by the then Minister of the Interior Minister, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, and at the request of the highest degree. Secretary of finance today, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. Then there was the opinion of specialists, three law professors, Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, Davíð Þór, the son of Björgvinsson, and Viðar, the Már of Matthíasson, in Iceland alone, If we had stood alone, it would have been an international cooperation in police and judicial matters in the Northern countries and in Europe for cleaning, and in fact, it would have taken such cooperation seriously and our position on international police and judicial matters. Hence, the reasons for the application of the EU Member States were understandable when this story is presented. The Schengen convention was signed first in 1985 between Germany, France and the three Benelux countries. Iceland then becomes a member of 2001, all due to the direct consequences of the EEA Convention and the ideologies of Four Freedoms, but the agreement on Schengen was entered into the EU Regulation, which is published in a 1999 report with the Amsterdam Convention, and the Schengen Association under the law, regulations, and institutions of the Union. Since then, about two decades have passed. Various topics have been discussed and written, especially critical. And it is always underlying, natural to say, the fears for the safety of citizens due to lack of borders, internal border control decomposition in the region, where the surveillance was moved to an external border, and the detoxification of personal surveillance between the European Union to facilitate free passage. It has reflected well in our discussion that we are still in a similar place in regard to the reasoning of the Schengen community, but thus, there has, in itself, been a limited passport control of the citizens of the nations who are part of the agreement at all times subject to any criticism. The ever - increasing threat of terrorism has fueled their criticism. Trends in recent years have led to voices of cooperation and, in fact, the crack got louder a few years ago and the highest in 2015. And then, when the refugee tide became the greatest from south to northern Europe and, for the first time, even though the problem was under control, it did not work out at all. Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, and France then adopted its internal border for security reasons. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and others left a question to the highest. Ministers to the place where it is, that it has been extended. The challenges associated with the current emergency situation have been met by various measures and changes in the Regulation and current legislation via the Shared Information System, the Schengen Information System, the Registration System, etc. The information we've received from our work and from the police directly that this is a very important information system and very important all the work of the police here and internationally, and access to them, and cooperation with national groups in that area. The report states that the treatment of the Schengen type has been strengthened, as has been, and at the highest level. The minister's concern was very well considered important. Cooperation was primarily in two basic forms of de-examination of personal surveillance within the region, on the so - called internal borders, and then on the counter-requisite measures involving the cooperation of local police authorities, including ... witha joint databases, information system, have coordinated an electronic information system where information is recorded and then the information agency that each member of the team is disfellowshipped, and we also do so, SINNE, and we are fired in the international police department. Such measures are important in order to ensure the safety of the cities, but this cooperation has increasingly increased, and it is increasing in favour of organized crime. The counterweight measures mentioned in this report include increasing the cooperation of border patrols on so-called outer borders. For example, in our case they reach Russia and south to Turkey and North Africa, which are on the border between Greece and Italy. However, there has been some comments in the discussion about visas and passport control. Teamwork is very important. Also legal assistance is required, particularly in connection with operations against organized crime and in cooperation with police personnel against such activities, such as the U.S. ... drugs. The report reports that with increasing scope, many things have changed rapidly over the past few years, and there are many improvements, for example, the management of information systems for streamlining and increasing efficiency and access of law enforcement agencies to information. Changes are required in the Dublin Protocol and the Eurodac Fingerprinting Database. I think the report may actually do what is best, i.e. everything you're working on. Change has happened very quickly now, just for the last four years, we can say. It has only been shown during the discussion that not everyone is happy with this cooperation. I have to say, as time goes by, it's obvious that this is a vital partnership and that I've made good use of us. It is very well reviewed in the report, i.e. in the assessment, a tool to find out how this works in each country. It is well reported on page 19. 7 of the assessment, how this is done. And then there's a list of operations that we need to sort out. There are particularly serious problems on the project at Keflavík Airport and then in the rest of the regime. But more money is being set up for the seminary, and it was now made legal for 2019 C.E. So I expect that we will see improvement in that area and be convinced that we will. Ministers will follow it very closely. A respectable president. I think it's important that we follow this list closely, and as I said I agree with this cooperation. The benefits of doing so are considered fine. From the beginning of Iceland's stocking at Schengen, there is one of the main benefits we can get to the police cohesion work that Iceland did not have to maintain in two ways with the individual European countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u50	Madam President. Thank you so much for this report and the discussion about it. It seems that very many people, especially outside this house, are not completely aware of what Schengen is leading to us Icelanders, what we need to do and what we receive in return. Thus, the person standing here was active at the Cheflavour Airport at the start of the work, and for the first years afterwards, I was able to review the Schengen report on conditions in the Cheflavour Airport for borderkeeping and monitoring systems and other matters. We're getting complete drop scores on that report. It is not surprising that we have given up a considerable amount of money to correct this. Perhaps that's why the fun misunderstanding happened. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson earlier when he said that I considered this cooperation a bicker. Far from it! I simply said that the money, the money that went to law enforcement this year, everyone had gone to the Cheflavor airport to more or less because of the bad score we got in the Schengen report. It wasn't in my words that the Schengen was up against us Icelanders. However, we need to realize that when the Schengen organization arrived, there were a number of millions of people in that area illegal. In the first few years after we participated in that work, it was in itself a case that brought a lot of bad things, flooding the illegal people into the area and that could go unhindered or unhindered across the regions. In the early years, we were also troubled by several member nations in Schengen who did not get enough information into the SIS systems, such as, so in this country, the men who had a criminal record that would never have been taken in the first place if other members of the country had built their own clothes. They were like children. But, of course, that's the way it is, which is right to point out that it hasn't done well enough, I think we're the keeper of the Schengen area west. As most of us know, those who come here often find their way to Iceland as a foreign place heading west through the ocean. Those persons who get illegally to the Western world, whether by ship or by airplane, are causing significant damage to Icelandic interests and businesses because there is considerable guilt outside that airports or ports can be imposed on bans, i.e. That it be forbidden to fly and/or sail west through the sea. So our work on this is pretty big and very big and costs a little of money. But it is also self - destructive because, in many cases, it seems, we have a double system, i.e. We have one system south at Keflavour Airport and another at the State Marshal's. It's a matter we have to deal with, and it's a good thing to deal with the discussion that we discussed with the police in the country. If we are going to be successful in financial management and financial use by the police, we must take special action and the role of the State Marshal's office, for it has been blown out in recent years, absorbing both the funds and the human resources that would better be handled by the general law enforcement agencies. Therefore, we cannot afford to be building two systems, e.g. ... towatchtheSIS and SIREE systems, both south of the Cheflavory Airport and in Reykjavík, apart from the fact that for what, why should you be watching the border system in Reykjavík? What are we going to do if someone gets through? Run south? What are we going to do? It's just ridiculous. It's supposed to be recording. This fine report provides the platform for cleaning up the discussion. The Schengen suspension we got and the tips there are reminders and reminders for us to change our gear a little and focus on the field equipment, i.e. at Keflavour Airport, is in line with what the Schengen Committee asks, so we are not creating two systems unnecessaryly. [[The president calls.]] We can't afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u51	V.E.G. President. I'm going like others, to thank the highest. Minister for report. The discussion of cooperation is often mistaken, and this is a good part of keeping the discussion more objective and on the right basis to assess the benefits of this cooperation and see where we can do better. As the minister said, this report covers different aspects of the cooperation. There's been a lot of things going on here. As my time is short, I intend to discuss only one third of the years in the section on counterweight measures in the report, to follow a consistent policy on the publishing of the visas. It is a great advantage in a consistent version of visas that enables the European Commission to enjoy the preparatory response of other Schengen countries in publishing the visas into the area, which pays for travellers to Iceland. A number of aspects of the subject have been discussed since then. It is also a pleasure to do so. The importance of police cooperation in Europe has been emphasized by the Minister of Justice when it comes to e.g. and declared interest in getting workers involved in this particular field within the police department. As with all international cooperation, this discussion gives us a better picture of our situation. We've come to the development of the Schengen models from the beginning. What a fine opportunity it is to bring our opinions into consideration! There's a number of things that we've been looking out for, like, changes in the SIS system where we were trying to cut costs and react to the existing situation. It is quite clear that Iceland has been very successful in improving the demands of the withdrawals and the border issues, that we have responded and improved. Or I'll welcome this discussion and thank the Minister for the good report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Senators for participating in this discussion of the report I have presented on the Schengen community service. I especially rejoice that I have found that there is a particular harmony in the language of everyone. Congress members on the result and the importance of participating in the Schengen community service, except at the same time. The members of the Central Party, I felt that I had some doubts about their cooperation. It was called after the cost analysis, and something else that may be done, although such cooperation may not be measured in dollars or dollars. I'm kind and obliged to mention it, for example. a contribution to Iceland from the Schengen countries has been in 2014◯2020 by 16.5 million euro. At the same time, Iceland pays for a team of only 1 million euros a year. So we've had a hell of a lot more for our cooperation than we do. Of course, that money is paid on the basis of a project that we're doing here, including the following: ... becauseof our commitments and the consequences of Schengen donations that have been more successful. It's not just Iceland, it's about all the countries that are doing their own research on border control, and we put a lot of emphasis on meeting these requirements. There are, of course, all other indirect costs that need to be taken into consideration. I mention, for example. the cost of the trust team, which is a new contribution to the budget and has been about 3 billion in recent years. Much of this cost has been brought about by issues under the Order of Dublin. We've been able to direct people to nationalize cases on the basis of what we couldn't have done if we weren't in the Schengen community. It can be wondered what the cost would be if we couldn't, on the basis of the Order of Dublin, would lead people away from who are in an illegal place here. I'm telling the Middle Class to learn a little more about this, and I don't doubt that they will, perhaps, look at this cooperation differently. Also, we must not forget that access to the database we have today and that we have been getting up and training our law enforcement officers to make any work available to us outside Schengen would be limited to the strict rules, personal protection regulations and other things that the state needs to have access to these data. This is fundamental to our ability to have some perspective on the legitimate quest of people into Iceland to look it up in these databases. People come here without passports, without ID. These people need to be identified, and they are not different from databases that the Schengen countries have established and have helped a lot. We have continued our Schengen arrangements, and there has been no trouble with us in this regard. However, the border watch was still involved in the general development of law enforcement. It's improving, we've made it difficult to improve the border defense, and it's also part of law enforcement development, but it's all connected. Based on today's discussion, I expect no less than a body of Congress to show a great understanding that the border between Iceland and law enforcement needs to be guarded as well. [[The president calls.]] I expect continued good cooperation with the council. I have not been able to answer all the inquiries here, but encourage members of Congress to direct inquiries, oral or written to me on these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u53	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in insurance law and insurance policy. With insurance law, No. 100/2016, and health insurance law, No. 60/2017, the main ingredient of Directive No. 2009/138/EC, about the establishment and management of companies in the area of insurance and reimbursement, implemented in Icelandic rights. This directive has undergone the English term "Solovency II " In both cases, the minister is authorized to set regulations and the SEC authorized to set rules. There is permission to implement the specific European Commission regulations adopted in the EEA Convention. The bill suggests changes to these sources. On one hand, a change is proposed to the EFTA comments due to the implementation of EU Commission regulations on technical information for the calculation of insurance debt due to the quarterly excretion of information to UNEC. The bill suggests that the Commission submits rules that will implement these EU regulations. However, it is suggested that a minister be authorized to set a rules for a case treatment that should be followed by a suitability application. Also, the F.O. will set up the rules on the course of a health insurance policy to provide a report on bankruptcy and economic status and on the form of the report. The bill does not have a financial or financial impact in terms of technical changes. A respectable president. I suggest that this bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u54	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize the law on the extra profits of state funds. The bill aims to establish a clear application warrant for action by e-mailing. With an approved legislation on the change of terms, laws on electronic transactions and other electronic services and laws on the extra income of the state's funds, No. 151/2018, of December 14, adopted a European Parliament by e - mail, and accepts this warrant of April 1. Prior to the hearing of the law, the wording of the law is believed to have to be adjusted on the extra pay of the state's funds, which requires that prior to filing documents pay the equivalent of 2,500 dollars. The law states that paying the price should be paid, but it is that the amount 2,500 can be made clear that an electronic declaration will also contain the same amount of money, and it is important that it be clear before April 1. The adjustment proposed in the bill will not have a financial impact on the survival of a government fund if the bill remains by law. It is not expected that members of Congress will promote this or any other form of affairs. A respectable president. Then I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u55	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in income tax laws. The bill suggests changes to the current terms of income taxation in the so-called state-pre-country tax returns. The regulations on the submission of state-pre-country reports have been in income taxes since 2016. The Regulation is based on OECD's guidelines, but Iceland has made an agreement with OECD for the transition between so-called state-pre-EU reports on the activities of international enterprises. In view of OECD comment on current rules, this focus on certain factors, such as the subject of budgetary bills, is provided through reports. This article discusses the obligation of the so - called surrogate partner of a mother's companion. The legal adjustments proposed in the bill will not have a significant effect on the survival of a government fund combined if the bill is under law. However, it will lead to increased clarity and an improvement in taxation. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u56	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize card-related fees. The bill suggests that the EU Regulation 2015/751 for the cross-requisite payment of the card-related payment adopted in the European Economic Area (EEC) on February 8 of this country will be granted legal requirements. The regulations set out a limit for the so-called intermediate fees that transferers pay credit card users for the use of consumer credit cards. These peaks are 0.2% of the money paid for debet cards and 0.3% for credit cards. The decrease in the exchange rate may be expected to result in a reduction in the service fees required by retailers who should, in the same way, lead to lower prices, salesmen and consumers for benefits. In addition to the maximal Regulation, there are a number of business regulations aimed at increasing the GDP, promoting competition, and promoting the integration of credit cards across the border of the European Economic Area. The permission to issue credit cards or provide transfer services should not be limited to specific areas in the European Economic Area. The separation of credit card systems and processing providers is recommended to increase the competition in the processing process. It must be avoided by the publishers of cards to invite consumers to have more than one credit card on the same credit card. Entries are assigned to disassemble services due to different credit cards. Unauthorized sales agents must accept all credit cards belonging to the same credit card system despite some being more expensive than others. This will be the way a dealer will, for example. can accept cheap debit cards, not expensive credit cards, but then choose them. Salaries are forbidden to inform consumers about the cost of using credit cards and direct consumers to less expensive credit cards. The bill suggests that the SEC will be put in charge of the law outside the regulations on the markings of the traders for the receipt of maps proposed to monitor the NTSB. It is suggested that State Department, State Department, or Department of State, can lay jurisdictions on individuals and legislators who violate the physical laws of the law. The authority to establish a suitable administrative fine is expected to benefit from violations against the rules and thus have the necessary warning effect. This Regulation has the authority to set a minimum limit for domestic debit card expenditures than 0.2%. The source takes into account that in some EU Member States domestic debit card expenditures were lower. That doesn't apply in this country. In view of the rapid development of subsidiary media at present, including Because of changes in technology and order, I have decided to suggest that within two years of the bill's implementation, it will be determined whether there is a basis for using the source here. The bill was made up of a working group with representatives from the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, the Department of Economic Affairs, the financial firms and the Bank of the United States of Iceland. The service group had consulted the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms and National Social Services, which did not comment on the fact that the Netostry was assigned to a surveillance of regulations for the sale of maps. The laws and initial assessments of the effects of law were published by the government in September. but no reviews. Draws that the bill and the final assessment of the effects of legislation were published in the January issue of consultation. One report came from the Association of Business and Service, which gave support to the case. A respectable president. Finally, I want to make sure that the legalisation of this bill is likely to reduce the cost of consumers and tradeholders and increase transparency and competition in the credit card market. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u57	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any changes in investment insurance laws and insurance systems. The bill suggests a reduction in the tax pay paid by business banks and savings to the deposit centres of depositors and investors. It is suggested that the overall portion of the pay is reduced from 0.225% of the currency to 0.16% per year and that the decline is effective during the first pay period due to 2019, which is June 1. The bill does not involve the induction of European rules but, in particular, is that there has been a substantial review of the financial and economic laws in the financial market. In recent years, I have brought a number of legal initiatives to the General Assembly that have proposed a change in the law designed to contribute to a more healthy business management of financial markets and secure control of the activities. Among those that have been considered in the Ministry in the past few years, legislation on deposit insurance is particularly associated with new European guidelines on financial return management. This year, I will submit a bill to legalize the European Commission of 2014/59 for the restoration and submission of financial management. The main objective of the directive is to prevent financial problems or traumas and, if necessary, to minimize their negative consequences by ensuring ongoing systematic important activities and, at the same time, limit the risk that corporate problems call for contributions from the state fund. The first part of this new restoration principle and the return therapy was introduced in the Icelandic just spring of 2018 and is being introduced into the section on preparation and implementation of due therapy. There is a strong interaction between the directive's regulations and the insurance policy, for it has to do with the interaction of the funds of two funds, i.e. the internal insurance fund and new financing roof of return fund required to set up under the directive for restoration and return therapy. Insurance funds are now reserved for reimbursement of depositors due to the failure of the lender. This will take place when European legislation on restoration and return therapy and deposit insurance has been implemented. In the modified environment it will thus be expected to include the terms of the deposit insurance collection in the case of financial equipment and the delivery of a return fund which should ensure short-term trust in return therapy. The objective of the bill that I now recommend is to change the annual payment for insurance in line with the expected changes in the rule and monitoring environment and the property status of the fund, and to expect the fruitage of its property. The financial status of the Icelandic insurance fund is strong, and at the end of 2018, his entire budget of deposit was about 38.6 billion. Annual pay of the Member State's funds, i.e. Business banks and savings, totaling about 3.5 billion dollars. in 2018. In evaluating the desired size of the fund, it has to be noted that once new restoration rules and return treatments have taken place, business banks that are considered systematically important will be taken into account if they have a serious business problem. Thus, their problems should be tested only to a very limited extent by the protection of insurance. In this context, I think it is right to remind you that all of the three big banks in Iceland have been defined systemally. I believe it is right to say that I expect payment of payments on insurance payments may result in further changes in future losses as a result of the introduction of the new regulations for financial return therapy and, especially, by building funds. In this context, I have a particular opinion whether there is any basis for using some of the assets of insurance to build up a minimum share of the return fund. According to European guidelines, the minimum share will have been 1% of the committed deeps in 2027, with a view to 100,000 euro insurance protection. In view of the present situation, the minimum would be over $3.3 billion. I'd like to specifically say that the main impact of the bill on the SEC is lower charges. There should be room for them to offer their customers a better one. A white book on a vision for the financial system in Iceland notes that high levels of credit on the banking system in Iceland are involved in the high cost of consumers. In recent years the organization of financial companies has repeatedly pointed to this point. The bill takes a firm step toward lowering the spell, and I assume that we will see the first chance that the decline will turn to consumers. Finally, I would like to say that the plans for making the bill were published by the government in January. Three reviews about the design are discussed in the bill. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u58	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister over the tour. It's an interesting bill and it's all about reducing the curses on the banks, which is a special interest in this government. What I wanted to do with the highest. A minister is that it is interesting that this change is being made right now. Since the bill specifically identifies itself and was expressed in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister, that in the water there is a full recheck of the system and the induction of a new rule, you ask yourself, " Why are we doing this now? ' Looks like something's wrong. I want the law to go into effect on June 1. Is this about a request made by the bank in particular? Would it not be possible to wait for a revised rule to be carried out, and these changes would be made? Second, I'd like to step in and see that I find it interesting that nothing is discussed in the bill when the government issued a declaration at its time of responsibility for the banks of the country after the collapse. There is no discussion of the cost of that responsibility and whether the insurance fund should have paid to the State for the responsibilities that guaranteed this business. In effect, the State should take a portion of this fund into the so - called responsibilities. I'd like the Minister's opinion of that. I feel like there's only one thing I need to think about in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u59	A respectable president. First, just for the sake of the bill. In other words, the interest of the bill is repeated, especially from smaller financial companies. I'd like to mention a savings reserve in a relationship that points out that their activities are extremely simple and transparent, and they hide primarily in taking down loans and extending loans and that any form of deposit will reduce the competitiveness of the savings because they have relatively simple revenue models. In this regard, it has come up with the view that the deposit insurance fund is well funded at the moment. It has even been heard that some feel that there is no need to be meddled into the fund. This is a way to reduce the tax, and this is to lead to a reduction in growth variability. It is very important that this happens and that people be social parties to themselves in this regard. However, such a case cannot be presented without referring to what is in the water and saying that we believe that the new arrangement set out here is in good harmony. I can easily see that we could arrange a portion of the policy fund to build up this return fund when it comes to it. I'm only going to come to other matters. A senator asked about here in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u60	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister. In his case, he said that the wishes of the financial companies on these topics are being met and that the thief's job is to reduce or modify it until it has to be done. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned that he hoped that there would be reduced interest here. Similarly, it would be good for him to overlook whether he considers it, e.g. interest on loans, i.e. When the public puts the money in the bank, don't raise it, too. The public would get a better vote for the banks in this regard. I don't think this action will reduce the growth in the country and that this will bring better terms to the public. It would be good to get past the minister's wishes that this action was of great importance to him. I have to say, I'm not. This fund's doing fine, but it's also very important. It's just our special situation here that we went through a financial breakdown, and it's very important that there's a fund that could at least be It involves some of the damage that we hope will not be. That's why this fund is there. Then it would be nice to ask a minister about whether a government fund should not claim any of the money in this so - called responsibilities for having guaranteed the nation's internalisation in the economic collapse and thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u61	A respectable president. Yes, I believe that the fund plays a very important role. I can say with what. A senator must be cautious about cutting off the demands for his structure and the need for us to make deliberate decisions regarding the changes in the industry. I believe that in the bill, the fund is very well understood as we look at all the changes that have already been made. I'll mention it, for example. Change the demands of the bank's own money. I also mention what has been done to give a better view of national goods. I'm dealing with financial standards in the material, the controls we have today, in order to have a better sense of what's happening in the banking system. These defenses are important. I also mention the fact that we have a rule of priorities in the face of trauma. All of this is a higher defense of the deposit insurance fund. In that way, we have reduced the likelihood that the funds will ever be tested. It has to be taken into account. I think it's important to turn down the benefits. Pay will continue. It will continue to build up a fund, but I believe this is sufficient. This can take a lot of thought and discussion. With regard to the restoration of the state, I completely agree. A senator said that it was far from default that the State would take steps to finance the restoration of the financial system, transfer and take over, for example. In the case of the Satisfaction Fund, Cheflavík, and other financial institutions, to finance what was lacking. It could have been imagined that the deposit insurance fund or the state would take it back in a different way, but the conclusion remains that all the direct costs of the State have been recovered, even if that happened in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u62	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prehistoric finance minister. In many ways, I think there's a great deal here, but I'd like to take it to the highest level. Ministers after that, including In view of the moisture he himself made in his background that the fund, in fact, had become more relevant to financial institutions than perhaps largely important institutions, would there have been some speculation in the Ministry about using a greater reduction in the pay of the industry this time than is indicated here? This is a 28-29% reduction that results in an approximate One billion, if I don't calculate very wrong, on reduced charges. That's a lot of money. The other cheek is whether there is any surface or if the minister can see that it can be guaranteed, or at least, contributes to the fact that these benefits actually turn to consumers, to bank customers, but may not be the primary benefits to the owners of these institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u63	A respectable president. I would like to say that this results in better banks that there are three things in my opinion that we can do to reduce interest in Iceland, and that's all that the government has to control and matter, and that includes. Consider the recently published white book. First of all, the bank tax. It is specifically mentioned in the report, the White Book. I think it's obvious, and there's a fairly striking table in the White Book comparing the taxation of financial companies in the North countries, how much more and more taxes we put on financial companies. We can lower it, thus making room for the banks to work so that they have less spells in their form of interest and pay. Second, it's the self-inflicted assets that we have, and they can have a very powerful influence, along with the risks that are involved in making decisions by the FBI. This is important. Then third, it's like this one, i.e. the deposit insurance bill. I am convinced that in a market where competition prevails, such changes will be made to consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u64	Madam President. Yeah, I hope it's the case that this is going to work, but of course we don't know in advance. I'd like to reiterate the previous question that I suspect the Minister had missed, if it was the point of a further reduction, or if it had been discussed in the Ministry. Of course, these are not in nature taxes in that sense but are, in fact, penalties, can be called, and they do not directly return to government funds like other taxes. Besides, there may be other speculations that I don't know if there's anything discussed in the Ministry of Economics, but it's whether anyone has any idea how much this reduction can have. This is about 1 billion as a reduction in these expenditures. Have any evaluations within the Ministry for the potential impact, e.g. on interest rates or growth in financial companies? I mean, in the big context, it's a total percentage decrease, either for increases in credit rates or a decrease in loan growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u65	A respectable president. You may only be able to get a clue in this reduction from 0.225% to 0.16% and see because this will not completely affect the growth environment as well as the amount of money as that, 1 billion, this will cause no turning point. But this is a step in the right direction to my opinion. It is also true that this is not a personal tax. It does not run into a government fund. Rather, it is to build defenses for the financial system into the future. We feel, however, that there is room to reduce these defenses by referring to everything else that has been done and to the strong position of the fund. This is, in my opinion, a rather conservative step. So it was wondered if we should go beyond my belief that we should step gently to the earth on this. But I believe at the same time that this is the right step and necessary, there is no need to have paid as high as it is today and have been making the point here. After all, it is always a matter of assessment whether a person will be able to show the evidence directly following the changes made to consumers. This is no fundamental change, as I mentioned earlier, but it does remember every 0.05 even over many years. As the sums are higher, they multiply. This is one of many important things. Of course, this can happen anyway, as asked in a previous inquiry, on the interest side of loans, or on loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u66	Mr. President. I'm going to go first to what says at the top of the report, to suggest a reduction in the general portion of the industry as clients and savings pay to depositors and investments due to deposit insurance. In other words, the price paid by banks is to be dropped. This is not the first price the government will pay on a financial enterprise, i.e. Banking. We know that the bank tax will be reduced. The budget bill also dropped a special fee paid by financial institutions to the FEC. It has to be said at the moment that the government is particularly concerned about reducing the financial cost of the country. Is it a little special in view of the environment we are in right now, the economic environment, where chats are ahead, and how they will develop? I can't see anything else in the report but that the evidence for reducing the charges is that there's so much on insurance and more than the European legislation would recommend. The sea, as indicated, stands for 38.6 billion dollars. and the companies or banks pay about 3.5 billion dollars annually. The reduction in that price is considerable, and of course, there are expectations that it will turn to the public. I can hear you talking at the highest. Minister is hoping that he will. I said before, and I've said somewhere else that I have doubts about turning down that kind of thing to the public in the form of lower loan interest and the higher interest interest rates, but we need to see if that's what it's gonna be. It is an interesting approach to the government, especially with the left green lead, to turn down again and again spells on the banks. We must realize that it is important that this one is well - oiled, as it were. We know the story, we know the economic breakdown. It is important that there is a fund that can intervene if necessary. It is worth considering, though, why the charges are being dropped now and on such short notice, they are to be taken in three months. At the same time, you will ask yourself: " Is it really true that the banks talked against finance minister that it would be necessary to reduce the tax as soon as possible? Then is it just the way it is? There are a number of expenses that need to be dropped and some that want to be dropped. I mention, for example. That car owners, FIB, have repeatedly talked about reducing car owners' curses and no doubt meetings at the highest level. Secretary of finance in this regard. They have not been successful in this. However, banks seem to have a special place in convincing secretary of finance that banks need to be suppressed. Of course, this brings some attention. I'm just gonna go into what says in the report on meeting the work of the bill. Clearly, the banks agree to lower the spells, and it is not surprising that they recommend the bill. That's perfectly normal because they probably took the initiative that they would be reduced. Once again, you ask yourself, " Does the public want to enjoy these things? ' They have not, however, been deeply concerned about their survival so far. Of course, it is noteworthy that there is a very good space within their ranks to increase the pay of managers, and particularly bank managers, about tens of percent, and there, ignoring the recommendations of economic and financial ministers to maintain these materials, but then, at the same time, occur at the same time as the highest level. Ministers and requests the reduction of bank curses. This is a very special presentation by these companies in my opinion and I have to say that I feel that the government has given way very easily. It would have been relatively easy to say that there was a complete reexamination, as it is, and that a new system could be introduced and that they could wait until that time. I think that's a perfectly natural approach a minister should have set up at the beginning. It is also an interesting approach to remove funds from the fund and to pay for it. I can say that it's an interesting approach. Mr. President. Finally, I reiterate to the fact that this bill is a very special bill and that it is given the yearly tour we are in, i.e. If there is a struggle ahead of you and more in that regard. It should be published again to reduce bank curses. I'm not sure this bill is a good part of that discussion. So I'm surprised to learn that the bill is in place and that there is such a short period of time where the law should be implemented in three months. In addition, you wonder: " Is there financial or bank pressure behind it, and I've given in to it as nothing. It is natural to stand firm in that regard when we are faced with difficult speech. It would have been easy to show them companies that the program was being reviewed and that they had to wait patiently until then.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law on binding opinions in terms of taxes. The bill aims for a five - year period of binding accepted as governor of the tax. There are certain limits to binding opinions in the law, e.g. songs may have changed at times that no longer require binding opinions. Other factors may change, making it considered untimely, apart from the limitations that are already found in the law. The view may change considerably. In particular, then, when I refer to some cumulative experience that can enter the game, a binding opinion does not last. This is discussed in the report and suggested that, rather than a binding opinion is non-term, apart from the limitations I have only taken in, it will have a five - year duration. I would like to mention the importance of continuing to accept binding opinions as the fastest possible way. It is important that our tax system can provide the means to provide information that is intended for binding opinions. To that end, the phenomenon is a binding opinion, to pay for decision making. I mention it because this is actually the other end of this case, i.e. that there is an efficient resort that can be relied on in the face of issues of opinion that may be of great interest and desirable for clear answers when there is no condemned to distribute in order to base decision-making. I say, this is the other end of the matter, because it really is the beginning. After a binding opinion has been obtained, there may be guidance for others to care for, not for those who initially desired it. From that point of view, we are pressing on to this instrument, a binding opinion, which has benefited from effective decision making. This may be the main problem, but it is in my view because of the other view, that it may be unwise to allow binding opinions to remain non-interm - and not easy to pick up in law all the relevant factors that are relevant to the set of values, as are done today. It endeavors to get together what can obviously change and subtract from binding opinions. The bill also suggests that the base taxpayer's fee for making binding opinions increase, but the cost has been unchanged for 10 years since 2009. Eventually, a change in wording takes into account the tax system change that took place when the country became a single tax system in 2010. The adjustment proposed in the bill will not have a financial impact on the survival of a trust fund, if the bill is still legal. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u68	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on clock charges, no. 138/2013. Your bill's moving men besides me are why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Páll Magnússon, Njlíl Trausti Friðbertsson, Friðriksson, Brondísdóttir Haraldsdóttir, and Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. The bill suggests a factor of 3,◯7. mg Section 5. The law will go away and we'll be on the 6th floor. The law of the law, on the exception of the stamp fees, adds to a new letter, as follows: ▪ The documents involved in the sale of an individual in an apartment building. The bill suggests that a stamp charge for the purchase of individuals in an apartment building will be taken away altogether. In general, individuals should be paid 0.8% for housing costs, but if the first purchase, half of the pay is given. Here it is suggested that the price be dropped permanently because of the purchase of individuals in an apartment building and the first purchases will not be limited to first purchases. A respectable president. Of course, we know most of the facilities today. In recent years there has been a shortage of apartments at a favorable price in the big capital area. Yet, many now say that at last, a little better is on the front side of the big capital area. However, it seems that too many new apartments are too expensive and only too large and do not answer directly the lack of markets. This has led to a lack of an apartment building in the capital area, especially in the city of Reykjavík, which has led to a worse flow of water, that it is harder for older people to cut back on themselves, and those who have a full house of children are more difficult to extend to them. It's this flow that I hope to even. that a stamp can help, as it would certainly make moving cheaper. We must help this flow and contribute to the normal housing market, make it easy to grow, and then reduce back to free both the larger and the smaller possessions. Of course, we can stand here all day, discussing the status of the housing market, the development of the last few years, and the appearance of the sky. There are some things we need to do, some of them on our ways, and other things on the ways of others. One way we can do this is to reduce taxes and taxes. Determination of the stamp is certainly a step in that direction, and for that, I speak today. A respectable president. The primary aim is to increase efficiency and facilitate the flow of the market. There is a need to make it easier for people, as it were, to have their own home. A recent report by the Substitute Bank says that 86% of tenants want their own housing. It is the need and desire for people with whom we politicians should try to answer and ensure real freedom of choice in housing. Building up people, financially secure and independent, is something that some people feel bad about, but something that interests me very much. Of course, this does not change the fact that some people want to be rented. Some are suitable for shorter periods of time, e.g. Young people in school. Others simply want to live in a rented home, and it is such a choice that we need to promote. Of course, freedom of choice is low if the house market is heavy. Our aim is not merely to build unlimited amounts of rent - house living but to do what we can, within reasonable limits, to help individuals find their own home. We do this by trying to lighten the load with people, whether with special property savings or by making a place considerably less expensive by deduction of the time stamps. Tax and charge of real estate transactions have an impact on the increase in real estate prices and reduce the share of buyers and sealers. Therefore, it can be assumed that the removal of plungers of real estate transactions will facilitate the efficiency and price of housing markets, hopefully with the expected rise in supply and a better flow. Real estate purchases pay mortgages, as was earlier the equivalent of a 0.8% fee. Thirty-five million ago. K. An apartment pays for nearly 300,000 dollars. as an extra tax or 150,000. ... thefirst real estate. 75 million ago. K. An apartment has become 600,000 dollars. So you could continue to count. It may be obvious to everyone that the tax pay will be at several hundred thousand dollars. In real estate, we're not justified, we're not reasonable. It is this blessed stamp that people ask: " Why is it so expensive? What's that stamp? I think it's a very good question because it must be a very obsolete price. Of course, it can be emphasized that financial independence and security of individuals and families are the work of politicians, trying to encourage young people to take steps toward financial independence, and to help them as we can, as by these means, so that families can survive on their own. Publicity can meet the general population by dropping the stamps from loans. It is as in the past that said nothing more than an extra tax that will harden our young people, who are taking their first steps toward financial independence by shopping. There is another issue that has been set up on a schedule that is not planned today, which is to eliminate the ship's precipices in particular. I'd like to draw attention to it, since we're having all kinds of clock charges, that I measure here for decommissioning the fees of people's homes and that it is an important first step, after which there are other stamps, which are also extremely unfair and burdensome. There have been previously changes in the timeliness used here at the council, e.g. that documents related to land transfers, smaller ships, and trade ships are excluded from the mines. Still carrying ships that are above the five gross rate when a property transfer takes place. It is easy to say that this does not count equal between industry and that this will surely reduce the flexibility of the article and the revenue of income. To say that, I think we need to look back, as did those who have become out - of - date and dare to eliminate them. In this way too, bills can be made; they can also eliminate out - of - date taxes. Politicians are elected to care for public interests, not the State. This plunger charge is taken out of public pocket, and for the majority of the population, these amounts are relevant to apartment shopping. It is never irresponsible to look at things from then on and in this case mainly out of the view of young people who are getting a roof over their heads. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to the Economic and Business Committee and 2rd. I hope the council is lucky to agree to accept the relief load of people who are buying homes or moving to the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u69	Mr. President. It may not surprise me that I really like this matter, and I support it. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Of course, the government should not be taxing people's property transfers. In fact, I believe that such taxation, the stamp animal, as the senator put it well, is something of history. I suppose I will handle it right, but I will. A senator corrects me if I am wrong, that the timing of a person's real estate exchange is about half of the time paid by a time stamp. The total wealth of the state's budget is about 5 billion. I'm going to go on my own as a bill for the complete removal of the plunger charge, and if I remember correctly, there is another bill on the clock as a member and a member of the council at each time. A senator transfers a ship's plunger charge of business. Don't you think it's time to cancel the tax altogether? He's a child of his time, isn't he? Is it not right for the sake of a simpler and more efficient tax system that has fewer than a broader source to eliminate the tax?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I agree fully with him, and I am grateful that more people are on that bus removing this clock charge. It is true that, at least for 2016, the income of the state's budget was 4,9 billion. Of course, this can be done in steps. It's a combination of real estate transactions, ships business and stuff. I think there's a chance here to take three primes together, my case that I was measuring for, a bill why. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson about a ship and a bill. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Wazowski son of Víglundsson, setting up a plan to eliminate the clock's fee. We must understand that this does not happen by snapping a finger at the end of the next year. But can't we hide an economic and business committee over that matter and plan to reduce the cost gradually? This would be the case if people no longer lived with the out - of - date tax paid by the label. It's quite clear that it's going to relieve people and I think we're gonna have a problem. A senator would agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u71	Mr. President. I'm not extending the case any further. I couldn't agree more. A senator, once again thanking for this fine matter. There are at least three senators in the Hall of the Economic and Business Committee, and we must be able to find a way to simply step this tax out. It might be a good idea to combine the situation, and it might well begin by removing a clock charge from an individual's real estate account while setting them up step by step on the plunger charge in another way, so that it will be fully cleaned out. I hope this is a good support for the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. For a senator. I think that might be a good solution. I would be very happy if I didn't have to contribute to the fifth time in the fall. I believe in it. Economic and Business Committees are people who are willing to put up with tax reductions and to relieve people of their burden. That is exactly what we can do by making a plan for this out - of - date tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Associous Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter for her history. We are not on the exact same page of the case, me and the other. Senator, but it's all right too. I view our tax system as one of the most important devices we have in the community to increase the balance of these incomes as part of the total package. It may be right next to you. A senator would say that it is in some respects unfair to collect taxes in this way. But I would like to introduce the senator to see if among the movers had an opinion to bind only the change they make when people own one property. It refers to living in a house, buying out individuals of all houses, and it could also be when someone collects a lot of property for rent and that sort of thing. Has the senator wondered if it was a matter of the making of this matter solely that, i.e. not all apartment housing but either binding it to the housing the person is going to live in or to one property, at most two such as perhaps when people own property in two parts of the country and have divided their living quarters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u74	V.E.G. President. So I'll tell you what. I'm not interested in changing the bill this way. I generally consider the label to be an out - of - date tax base and put it as the first step off for all persons who buy housing. If this were something that could be done for the first step, and then it would be followed by all the time stamps, I would be good at examining them, with the goal of canceling all the time stamps. I know why. A senator doesn't like to pay taxes, but I also know why. A senator campaigns to improve the standard of living. Here is one thing that can contribute to letting flow into the housing market, making it less expensive to have your own housing, since most Icelanders are quite ready to have their own homes, live in their own homes, and are able to move from house to house when it is necessary or when the family needs to grow or diminish. Therefore, I do not suggest that this is only the first buyers. We need such a flow and are simply not supposed to tax people's real estate transactions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir An Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir daughter for the answer. In itself, the name given to this tax base was at some point in the minds of men as a form of humor or a reason for humor, so it is something strange or fun. Of course, he is no more than one way to receive a price for the Kingdom. Since the senator speaks of the importance of freedom of choice, it can be said that if the state takes a fee there, in that case, over 2 billion a year, it is one way to help the state develop support for tenants or to increase the support of other resources in a real estate market. In my mind, it has to be taken into account in the entire context, and I think it's a little short that if you're suggesting that the state be caught up at 2◯2.5 billion a year, how the state's going to collect on expenses to meet it. In terms of what's come up a bit in the discussion, that it's a strange tax system that doesn't exist anywhere else in the world, I've borrowed property markets from other parts of the world, i.e. In the United States, with a comparable price. It's just a name, something else, and it's paid for the loan board, not to the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u76	V.E.G. President. I don't suppose we're gonna do that. A senator will agree on how to manage tax returns in this country. The Senator points out that it is not the tax that is out - of - date but only his name, and so we should change his name, if I get it. A senator is correct. Rather, we should reexamine the tax to young people who are buying their first property and who have made adjustments. But we have already made adjustments. For example, in 2013 it was no longer necessary to set the plunger charge for e.g. loans to boxing, various types of rights and occupations. I think it was a step in removing this tax completely. What I don't understand in words. The senator is: What's the tax for? It is clear that he generally finds people who are buying property or moving to a real estate market. I have not had any particular reason why it should be held except to use the funds to support tenants. It's been hard to get your first apartment here. This bill can help people to do that. I think we should focus on where most Icelanders want to live in their own rooms. At the same time, we must promote freedom of choice. I'm sure we will. A senator might contribute to the removal of such taxes, if we look carefully at the importance of getting relief from people who are buying an apartment. However, increased supply and flow of housing markets may also contribute to greater supply for tenants at a better price. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u77	A respectable president. A brief talk in return to the fact that what I want to say couldn't quite fit in answer. What I have most likely to check is that it's a percentage stamp. Based on how living prices have developed in recent years, the pulse rate has increased dramatically in recent years. Part of Iceland's special policy is tied to the pension system. If people do not have a debt - free roof when they go to pension, pension, pensions will simply not work if they also have to pay on loans to some degree or rent or similar. So the special policy is really part of our pension system. As a result, the clock charge is a threshold for very many to complete the collection for the pension system, especially when it has increased to the extent it has done in recent years. I definitely agree that this price is very strange, for it is in the law on clock charges, with the permission of a president: The money in the state fund should be paid a specific amount, a stamp charge, of the documents to be paid according to these laws [...] The obligation to pay should be established when signing currency to a document. To me, this sounds like some kind of service fee for document office, but it can't be, because it can only answer the cost as defined by the service fee. This is some sort of strange tax returns to making a document that costs much less than a collection of 0.8% of the price of an entire apartment. Making a document and all around it will not take much effort. I'll make a comment in this regard. Now the financier will replace the economic and business committee who was here. Then I wondered about the laws on public finance, and if it was not just a normal process to have it in some form of Congress, since it would be referred to by the government to include it in the fiscal process, i.e. introduces financial programmes specific recommendations to the government. Then perhaps the Economic and Business Committee could take the three times 'em in progress and make it possible for the government to put in a financial programme for the next year's graduation of the plunger charge in the steps mentioned, so I can put it into my perspective on the present legal structure, something we might develop in the future. My impression is that it was the right process according to the current government law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u78	A respectable president. I present a bill here for the change in rural government law that is concerned only with the number of local representatives. The first missioner of the matter is why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. He's not here today at a house, so I'll take it from here to address the case, but along with Jón Gunnarsson's son, he's not here today. Councilmen Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Ólason, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Hjaltason Gauti Trausti Friðbertsson, Ísleifsson Isafjörnsson, Óli Björn Kárason, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, who transport this bill. The bill is about to change 1 1 1. Substitution to 1st. put it this way: The number of delegates on the odd number will be on the unit. The number of members of the county board shall be set up as agreed. Count 9. Let the nobles never be less than five. Since the population of rural society is fewer than 2,000, the main population should be no more than seven. In addition, it is suggested that the number of the words be increased or increased to a greater than or to the second sentence of 2.mg. ... goout. The bill has previously been submitted several times in a slightly altered picture. The bill with this report was also submitted to the 148th legislature Council. Civil society is the government, thereby becoming part of the European Commission's manual, according to Article 2. The constitution. Thus, rural communities are part of the administrative system and are to follow general rules regarding government activity and administrative procedures. According to 1st mg. 78th par. The Constitution shall govern its own affairs according to law. This expression that they control their own affairs points to the self - control of their communities. A country's self-control includes some. that citizens of rural society have a democratic right to vote for the government of the local community. The call is for a number of district leaders in 1st. 1 1. Substitute government law. Thus, an extenuating law affects the number of local representatives. It is important to protect the exercise rights of the rural community and to ensure that the democratic thinking behind the country's regime and the rules of elections for the government, that local officials represent the local community, actively reflects the will of its inhabitants. Ideographical base 1. 78th par. The Constitution is to ensure the right of local citizens to control certain matters without interference from the State. Therefore, the carriers believe that this is the right thing for rural society to do for itself, to control a number of local nobles. The following should be kept in mind, as indicated in comments at 2 mgr. 1 1. in the paper of the bill, which became the current administrative law, by permission of the President: However, it is also important to remember that the governance that the bill assumes that the value of rural activities is not expected to be very large government, based on the fact that the government itself makes all major decisions on the management and administration of the Community and is responsible. If this bill becomes legalized by the law, local governments will be made up of a number of local nobles in their approvals within the bounds that the officers will never be fewer than five and no more than seven, with less than 2,000 of the population of rural society. The proposed changes to 2 mg. 1 1. The law is explained by the fact that if the bill becomes a law, society will never be obliged to increase the number of local representatives, although the population changes. Then there is the law of law, as it was 2.mg. 78th par. The constitution. Companies and space to use them are key factors in considering what rural areas can take care of themselves, i.e. on your own initiative, as e.g. To determine the number of nobles in the county government. It should be noted that this bill is not intended to influence whether societies will ever multiply representatives for future government elections or not. - This comment is probably here in the paper because the bill was submitted for the last district election. The economic impact of the bill's decision on the state funds is not a single factor. Of course, it may be that the bill can have some effect on the financial plans of the local community, but it is in its own jurisdiction. A respectable president. I've been over the bill and the report with it. I'd like to add what I've already said that a lot of discussion was made at the time when rural law was changed and a provision was made that would have to be made, most important, in the city of Reykjavík, by the size of Reykjavík, that it would require a significant increase in the number of representatives. I know it looks like it's who it looks like. What we senators who bring this bill are basically emphasising, in fact, that this will be the decision of the locals themselves. It is not a matter of decision here at the council what any community should be represented by a number of people. I also feel that it is important to see that rural governments are multi-organized governments, and in many respects they are active in rural administrations and committees that follow the unit level perhaps more democratically than they go and happen, e.g. Here at the council. I now have years of experience in the field of local government, and that is a large part of the population that actually comes to control the local community through the local committee system. I don't have the impression that there is a lack of democratic and varied viewpoints to be heard about the various categories responsible for which the communities are responsible. On the contrary, I believe that the current arrangement is just so well aware that voices that most people hear, as well as more and more rural groups, are, of course, making up a direct deal of democracy, both by elections and by districts, and by other means, to produce a viewpoint on certain matters. I've personally seen that and I've seen that the work of the countryside doesn't improve with the fact that there will be more people in the country, I'll just let me make that claim. On the contrary, meetings often become more difficult, more elaborate, and in my opinion little to improve the business or quality of the decisions taken within the local government. We believe that the rural communities themselves will decide how many representatives they choose to have in their rural governments, but of course, with the obligation that they should never be fewer than five, that is, the number we believe will ensure that democratic views are heard in rural governments, and not more than seven when rural communities have fewer than 2,000 inhabitants. I think I'm gonna finish this. It's a simple bill that explains itself very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u79	A respectable president. I don't think the bill is completely self-explanatory. It is said that the decision force is being put into the hands of rural governments, but there are still limits to which are set here, at least five platoon leaders, and a maximum of seven if the population is below 2,000. If our goal is to allow the government to rule itself, we may not have set limits on them. Rather, we just made certain demands that they determine the number of local government officials. I think that our role in this legislation is to set specific rights for the voters of a certain democratic diversity, because with fewer representatives there is an inevitable lower demographic and fewer opinions and voices among the representatives of the voters. When our rural communities grow bigger and with more populations, I feel that more vocal rights are inevitable by having the minimum number of representatives higher as the population increases, perhaps not entirely linear but in some proportion. That's why I made a move on this bill last time when it became quite clear that a minimum will be set, as is done in the law now, unless the country government was going to increase beyond the minimum, it would have to be elected. Thus, local governments would have authority over how many representatives they had, they could have more democratic diversity than the minimum set up here. I wondered, " What does that look like to a messenger? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u80	A respectable president. It is true that with the bill, we think that there are a series of representatives in this box. Of course, we can argue that the communities themselves are not entirely free to determine the number of representatives, but we are primarily covering the floors of five delegates. Yes, we put in a roof when our rural communities have no more than 2,000 inhabitants, but our communities are supposed to make their own decisions. We have a minimum number of local governments, five, so each member of the community can decide to have a lot more agents, and then follow the size of the team, whether they think it is seven, nine, eleven, thirteen, or whatever it is. By local government laws, it may well become a populous vote. It may well be stated that if a certain number of people live in accordance with the local government Act, they want to turn the population into a country government from what is, the bill becomes law, it is no business to vote for it. I did not study the making of the adjustment that took place. A senator submitted to the bill in his day. However, our ideologies are going on to expand the boundaries or the box, making the decision of the majority of the community. I don't agree with what. A senator to see that democratic polymorphisms are primarily involved with other members of the rural government. I think there are so many other tools and tools that the local government can use to get people's viewpoints ahead and to be democratic in its decision-making. Whether the local councils are seven, nine, or thirteen I don't think that is the main objective of making democratic decisions and the diversity of the community, as well as providing a system of committees to ensure the arrival of many to the decision of rural governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u81	A respectable president. The main problem I see in this is that it is an incentive for those who are in power, and even for those who are not ruled by elected agents, to maintain their own position. It all points to the fact that if we multiply agents, representatives of minor opinions will be able to enter this field. Therefore, it may be a force for dominant forces to have as the most elected agents, so that they do not have to contend with voices other than those most comfortable. Therefore, I see the need to ensure that there is a gradual increase in the minimum number of delegates as the population grows and that there is no need for a linear rise. There are five representatives in which there are 2,000 inhabitants, some 400 of whom are behind every representative who can go to 2,000 behind each representative of larger rural areas. There's a tail there. We also deal with such an angle at a council, there's a certain vote difference that is not necessarily reasonable, but it is not necessarily unfair at each level of local government. At that time, the state level of government, at least by the change in what we've made, can reduce the difference so that the voice of more smaller groups can be heard among agents and not just through the commission work. It is definitely a problem when the voices and ears of those who are in power are simple. [[The president calls.]] Then people often don't hear what the smaller parts say
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u82	A respectable president. It is mainly the viewpoints that were the dominant when the change was made to the current rural government laws on limitation. I think Reykjavíkurburg has some 90,000 inhabitants. [[Up to 120.]] We have 120,000 people. [[Take it up: Minus/plus...]] Reykjavíkurburg, under law, should have a Councillor of the Council. It is half the Allied Parliament of the Icelanders. I think it's very wrong, but it doesn't make any difference that if the citizens of Reykjavík are willing to have such a number of city officials, it's probably not a problem. I find it quite beautiful in rural law that about 20% of the voters can request a vote. That's a very simple choice. If so, is it an incentive for those who are in power not to increase the number of representatives or to reduce the number of them? Of course, that's one of the things you can worry about, but there's some safety valve that can be produced as a citizen's vote. First of all, I think it's about the value of being a local government officer and how much time people can devote to their work and how they do things. It is a discussion that must also be discussed. Then I'll come in to the councilman's salary. I believe myself that it is better for a community to have but fewer representatives who can give more time and spend more time in their jobs than with a large class of representatives who are running in this with other jobs and who have a very limited time to get involved in the affairs of society's explorers. Let us see that we have made a lot of cases in our community, so they are doing much bigger and more important work, and the greater reason for the local government to have an opportunity to put themselves in their affairs. [[The president calls.]] I think it's more important than a lot of agents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bryndís speech from Haraldsdóttir's daughter. You may not have to be surprised that I do not completely agree with her in this matter. In fact, I know the background of the local government laws quite well, was at the time of that committee on behalf of the then social and rural minister, who made the decision of the law. At that job, local officials were expected to become more than what later was decided on the council. The Parliament eventually decided to cut the number of representatives from the proposed bill of this committee when it was submitted. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson, who appeared earlier with the point that if too few representatives are, there are less diverse views in the countryside. I wonder, for example. up anyway. paritaprevir But if Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir thought that only five district officials were in Reykjavík, with perhaps 25,000 people behind each side, and the threshold of entering rural government would be comparable to the need for a similar vote for five members of the council. I think I know what. A senator would not consider that to be wise. But let's consider that we now have large societies in the southwest corner, where the number of delegates is complete, at least In some of them, the main interest of the members of the district council is beginning to fall into what is needed to get a member of the council in other districts. I believe the level of government should, if anything, be democratic, have more participation than any other level. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we are more concerned with having representatives as many as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u84	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Clearly, we do not agree, that is obvious. But I agree with that, and I believe that it is so at the unit level that it is really democratic and other voices involved. No, I can honestly say for my part that I don't think it's wise that as big a community as Reykjavíkurburg would have only five agents, and I think many people would agree with that. But already it is. On the other hand, a member of the local community will discuss the matter - in this discussion, let's see that Reykjavík is the only community in the country where city officials are in full - time service as members of the city. Everywhere else, this is considered part - time work, i.e. Most of them are at the same time in the full - time service elsewhere. I don't see that there are any more democratic or better results from having more agents running on these projects and having limited time to do them than having fewer and more money to pay for them, assuming that this is a larger duty, because being a councilman is a very important job. There's a lot of things to be put into, I know it and I know it. A senator also knows this very well. In fact, I had the privileged position of caring for it completely, so I learned very much and was sure to put forth the full - time effort of about 100%, and often more. I simply think that there is a better and stronger arrangement for rural governments that are taking on more and more assignments. It's a board of directors. There are so many important decisions made at the local level. [[The president calls.]] Time and again, I'm afraid the deputies are not aware of the administrative laws and the importance of their decisions, of all sorts of legal failures that may arise if something goes wrong. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the spirit of Haraldsdóttir's daughter. I agree completely with what. A senator in terms of the importance of the work of local management, and I'm not sure that all local authorities realize that rural governments are multiorganized governments and are probably not always aware of the responsibility they have in view of that. I think that's another discussion. I don't feel that it has come to many of the delegates so that they don't get enough money or enough opportunity to do their jobs, I think that's another problem, so to speak. Thus, about one third of the public business is at the hands of rural society, where there are huge amounts, financials, and important social projects being carried out. We've been in elections to Generalis that's where we have our 5% threshold on a national level. I've been thinking, at least. in larger rural communities, whether it would be a normal threshold to examine, that 5% of the population of the population in a major rural society, I tell a community of over 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 people, something like that, they should be able to be sure that their voice could be heard in the government with elected agents. In that way we would actually escape the problem of having to be counted all the time, so it would just be built into a percentage rule. Only in the end are the committees for years. A senator mentioned, I know that the senator knows that the local community's committee system is based on a number of local representatives. If we get a lot of results from the local government then there will also be fewer members of the Committee, and thereby the percentage of democratic participation will be reduced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u86	A respectable president. I think, unlike what happened. A senator, the need for this discussion to be taken together. These are not related matters, i.e. how much money is paid for and how much time the local authorities will be able to enter their affairs and the number of local representatives. That's exactly what I think. A senator made it clear that local officials may not always realize that there is a multi-organized government, and hence their responsibility in all cases, and the fact that local officials will become more and the workers may be more active, people may have the responsibility involved. So I think it's absolutely necessary to take this up-to-date conversation. There is simply only a limit to what it is normal for a large proportion of expenses to fall into the hands of government or overcrowding, resulting in rural or local governments. Of course, as far as the committee system is concerned, there are also limits to what the above mentioned might be. I'm more concerned with these matters about the fact that rural governments are not growing too much, than they are. A senator may be entering, that the number of representatives will be greatly reduced. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee is now being discussed with this issue, and I think there is good reason to consider whether these goals can be approached in any other way. The big thing for us that this bill brings is to place the responsibility most on the government itself. Of course, we came to realize that there may be some incentive not to overpower or increase. A Union of Icelandic rural society often has excellent advice for rural society. There would be good reason to consider that there were some sources of counsel on the basis of an ideal local government and on the other hand, on the basis of a number of local government officials according to rural size. In many cases, rural society follows one another in such a material. [[The president calls.]] So there are things to think about. Above all, we want the local government to have added meaning to making a number of representatives and not to be encouraged in the way that is being done today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u87	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of carnivore. I use that word to separate from the word animal culture, about the culture of animals for human consumption, or about the use of meat or other food products. The fourth motion is made, previously at 146, 147, and 148th legislatures, and remains unchanged. The above talk is also relatively unchanged from the last, with small improvements here and there. The proposal is that the Allied Council hides the marine road and agricultural minister to investigate the status of carnivores, i.e. how long before the products of carnivorous products become competitively compatible with meat products in traditional agriculture, and planning the implementation of the products for Icelandic agriculture, as well as in the water, to speed up the competitiveity of carnivore with other products of traditional fishing or food producing animals. This technique is by no means new. Generally speaking, a form of meat without the use of slaughtering animals is a process of making meat. The idea has existed for over 100 years when Alexis Carrel managed to keep cells from the heart of a chicken alive for 34 years outside the body of a living organism. It was only because of student error that forgot to feed the cells that they died. It was spoken of by the president, the immortal cell in that regard. Winston Churchill predicted in 1931 that within 50 years, which did not actually last, but we may be quite close to it, we would be free of the absurdness of growing whole chicken just to eat a thigh or a chest. In 1995, the U.S. Food Organization approved attempts to cultivate meat with the goal that food would not be a problem on long space trips - all a very noble goal. As you can see from this, there are real people around the world who are involved in this technology to achieve their ability to manufacture. It is only a matter of time before these technologies become competitive and available. It's likely to be similar to what it was when a vegetarian was coming into the market and not necessarily an enormous appetite, but since then there has been tremendous improvement in making vegetarians. The best hamburger was a veggie burger, there was no difference between him and a meat burger. They can be done too, but this is still another way to go, and not all of us are going because we can all be vegetarians. We must look beyond the context. The main advantage of cultivating meat instead of cultivating animals for human consumption is the environmental impacts of the environment, especially on the problems we face in these areas. Although this may be true in Iceland and elsewhere, carnivores also have the advantage that antibiotics do not need to be used. Actually, we don't use much antibiotics in animal culture here. One of the advantages of carnivores is that it can take place in an immune environment, and then it doesn't need antibiotics. There have been extensive studies on the environmental effects of carnivores. Carnivores send 789966% less greenhouse gases than traditional animal breeds, depending on animal species. For carnivore uses no less than 99% less land space, 823/496% less water, and 75.945% less energy. Only in bird farming is less energy used than in carnivore. In addition, these figures do not address the environmental impact of transport or cooling that is less needed with the carnivore technology. Nor do they take on environmental effects because of land-emission. You notice that if 99% less land is used for this technology and the global climate impacts from the country are not included in this, how much less we could get rid of greenhouse gases than we do right now, just by this technology. I dare claim to solve the climate problem. No more than that. It is of importance because of the effects on greenhouse gas emissions which energy source is used in the production of meat. In most places, coal or oil would be burned to drive the energy processes involved. It would normally not be done in Iceland, and as we shall see later, there is a problem with my factory production here. No matter what Iceland does to prepare this food-making technology, we will have to cope with the changes in carnivores and diets. Although the demand for animal meat is not sure to disappear, similar to the demand for wild animals has not disappeared even though we have domestic animals, it is likely to fall very, although only because of environmental impacts and animal protection policies. This may have a significant impact on agriculture and fishing exports in Iceland, even a positive effect, since the demand for production from organic animals could increase and such production could become much more valuable. The effects here may be different from those of any other part of the world where the idea of carnivore is actually replaced by industrial production of meat, which is little here. It is therefore very important that Iceland is prepared for this technological progress, both by implementation and by law. Our traditional agriculture could become even more valuable, since the problem of environmental impacts we are trying to solve would be possible solved. There is an astroologically powerful effect, in fact, in this case. During the last term, I asked a seafaring and agricultural minister to see if the development of this technology is being monitored and how it could have been affected in Iceland. The simple answer was: No, and I don't know. This was of interest to me, for shortly earlier it had been announced that within a decade this technology could become competitive with traditional production of industrial production from animals for human consumption. I would tell people to find that discussion, for it was very interesting in other ways. At least these ideas are something we should know about; we should know what is to be expected. I find it very interesting in this technology that it is the first real revolution in food production since we stopped being museums and hunters. All the technologies that have been used in agriculture since then have actually been able to make the same ideologies more efficient, the idea of house animals within fences and crops, all the processes more efficient. What carnivore can add is a ideologies for production that are not dependent on the presence of the resource and not necessarily on the presence of consumers. It is not local production that depends on putting a fence around an animal; therefore, we can produce the meat in a desert, where consumers are usually not close enough solar energy to power production. Then outside the horizon are other technologies, which are also very important, e.g. A revolution in creating energy and revolution in production, such as a 3D print, and so on. It is also stepwise to reduce localised manufacturing processes to a specific distribution. Then we will rid ourselves of the huge distribution system on which we rely to transport products from one corner of the world to another, an enormously costly and inexplicable means. A parallel to these technologies can be drawn in carnivores with other recent technological advances, e.g. on the digital revolution of music and films. Suddenly, the distribution of music and films did not depend on the manufacturer and his distribution system. This led to intense revolutions and problems as to how we hated that system. We're still arguing about how we're supposed to have this. Instead of having an argument over this matter and all kinds of problems, we should try to prepare ahead and try to see how this will affect our community as it does. Carnage is not limited to domestic animals. It reaches an animal that is not as easy to put a fence around, e.g. A lion or a whale. We could not catch whales because we had samples of whale meat that could only be cultivated. If it were good for human consumption, it could be cultivated without having to hunt whales. That's why the Örn, whatever you can think of. Animal protection grounds for the catch of endangered animals are very strict and we could actually leave nature with this technology. It offers an enormous amount of opportunity in this regard. We could simply leave nature alone. We don't have to sail to the sea and catch fish, we can only grow the meat. The objective of this synoptic proposal is simply to prepare us for the changes that carnivores to cause in current ways and society of people, not just in Iceland, but all over the world. This may not be a reality within ten years, those scientists who predict it may be in order to obtain more research, etc. and wants to build expectations and get more money, which is good, because this may happen sooner. However, while time will be double as long, the consequences of this will be so immense that all the steps we take to allow this to take place earlier in many cities, with respect to environmental and animal protection policies. I go so far as to say that technology is a foundation for creating peace in the world. If no one is hungry, the motivation for war is simply much less. It also applies to energy, but likely there is a energy revolution that could contribute to the lack of energy competition for land, e.g. oil, and not a national competition for food production. These two technical technologies could completely support the situation of the world's military affairs and our rich tradition of arguing with our neighbors about resources. The reasons for these would be at least much less if we don't have to fight about food in the stomach. I think it's a good exercise to think about the future. You see, it is always better to be prepared for the changes we see to be on our next track instead of a chase. It is the intention of this council resolution, to go on thinking about the future instead of being in a chase. We are now in the middle of the fourth industrial revolution, as Stefán Pálsson put it, and this synopsis shows that we are falling into the fifth industrial revolution, at least once this technology is on its feet. Social changes due to the influence of the fourth industrial revolution give us enough problems to deal with, and how will it be if we fall into the fifth industrial revolution when we have not even learned at the fourth? It'll all be very Colombian. This is the Fourth Parliament and the third elected period on which this synoptic proposal is made. If that happens to our immediate future, we will simply be late to plan ahead, and we will have to go back to the future again and again. This is not a complicated issue, either the execution or the execution of it, but the sooner we succeed, the better. Now, it would be interesting to consider the possibility of a future committee, but I don't quite know if it works within the Congress's organization at the moment. Perhaps the committee that receives this should refer to the future committee for discussion. But, of course, it would be best for us to get a traditional convocation process and be done soon. This is, in fact, an enormously important issue, and the changes these technologies will make in society are tremendously positive and the sooner they happen, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u88	Mr. President. I'll give this speech a short time, end it very simple. Here it is suggested that clock charges be dropped in total as tax in two stages, by half of the current tax base on January 1, 2019, which actually requires some consideration, in view of the fact that this was not measured in the fall, and by the date of January 1, 2020. The reasons are simple. This is a form of property tax, which has nothing to do with the income produced by these assets. This is a burden to householders, to make real - estate transactions more costly and difficult, and to avoid reflecting in any way the government's costs of this business. Similarly, when it comes to employment, these sectors differ, since once again the tax does not depend on the income of the enterprise, it affects very different sectors depending on whether or not they have a large amount of money in property. Finally, this also affects a ship, and thus business of an outlaw or a shipmate. But once again it takes no account of the income created by its possessions. It is simple in this context to look for a simple tax system that is based on a wide but few tax stocks and natural that when it comes to taxpaying income or profits from companies, it is trying to set taxation into moderation and have it simple rather than paying taxes on the company's property or business. The same can be said of individuals. Already, a case suggested that the clock's removal of real estate will be fully measured. The nature of the matter says I support that matter whole - souled. At the same time, it is expected that the matter will be measured later, probably at this assembly, where a clock charge is suggested to be canceled from the shipping trade. The nature of the case suggests that I support that matter too. This tax is a matter of time, and it has long since come to an end. I suggest that the case be followed after the discussion referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee, as was the case recommended earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u89	A respectable president. Another bill of excommunication or removal of law. That's great. I'm very pleased with that. I will present a bill for the removal of 208 songs, which I eagerly look forward to measuring for and hoping it will get far. And another bill for resection of 26 more songs is coming. This is often very interesting. I really support it, but I'd like to ask. A candidate in a specific process over the content of this bill, linked the global nuclear functions to paying off some kind of budget and some kind of protection on the development of taxes. Would it not be reasonable to include this in the financial and financial process? It's a pretty large amount that's behind it, and I guess it takes some organization to erase the effect - or not necessarily zero it out, but assume the effects. Even if it were to be a great retreat, it might be better if it occurred concomitantly with a financial program in some way. I'm looking for a senator's opinion of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-05-75.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, it is only natural, in itself, that the financial context of this step would be considered by the Economic and Business Committee. The matter was presented to the council as early as this fall, but it was not recommended until now. That is also said to be in the contribution of the bill, the firm belief that this is an unfair tax, that it should be eliminated regardless of other factors. The need for funding or the result of an increase in the financial and financial policies is to be made payable in other ways or to cut down expenses, which, of course, would be much more desirable in the minds of the individual. This is far too small to do by showing an increase or sufficient body of counsel in the affairs of the State. I don't think there's a problem. It's 5 billion tax from the state's income stock for that whole thing. It is assumed that he is taken into two phases. I think it's relatively easy to react or adjust it somehow into a financial programme so that it doesn't cause any setbacks.
