ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u1	V.E.G. President. The hospital is in a state of emergency. That was even. Draws up in unprepared queries hours a few days ago. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, president of the Middle Party. In response to a very poor minister, it was reported that policy-makers were employed to the year 2030, which had been approved in this hall. I can say here and now that those waiting for service at the Land Hospital can't wait until 2030. We're good to go. This discussion of a medical emergency is not new. There was a special debate on the part of the Central Party in January. a medical emergency at that time, the emergency of the Land Hospital. After a slight display, I found exactly the same words for 2009, 2013, 2016, and 2018; a medical emergency. All these years, an emergency. It is clear that large contributions have been made to this institution without any increasing growth in the future. It is also quite clear that under these circumstances, when an emergency situation exists at the Land Hospital, hospital projects that he cannot handle are still being packed up. The staff should only run faster and patients should wait longer in the hall. This is not welcome. That's perfectly clear to me, after all that's been going on for the past few days. Ten years, the problem of the Land Hospital is a government problem. The management of the Hospital needs to be addressed. It will undoubtedly have to be humanized, and it definitely needs to be organized. That could even be the case. This includes temporarily putting emergency control over the hospital. It may also be a long time to put control of the hospital, but it is quite clear, Mr. President, that patients who wait at the Land Hospital for service cannot wait for her for long. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u2	Mr. President. There are now loud voices about irregularization of the financial system. For this purpose, it was seen as an example two of the highest levels. Ministers in the media recently threw a great deal of regulations into the trash. News was so heard that a few would be made higher under the head by orderliness in competitive matters. Magnússon, president of the National Bank Council of the Federal Republic of Iceland, has severely criticized a new bill. Industrial and innovation ministers where there are great changes in the competitive legislation and describe it as the wet dreams of a racer. I find this news of the need for a financial system order in a complete paradox to the financial and economic secretary who speaks of a strong system and the structure of the financial system in connection with the sale of banks. At an open meeting on Iceland's gray list because of insufficient measures due to money nonsense, the same minister could understand that we were not at home at all on the list, that was all based on misunderstanding, and that the haggis of FAFF were to blame but not a lack of regular work here. However, I find it obvious that the structure of the financial system is extremely lacking. There is no evidence that any further policy-making of the financial system is required. How about decommissioning the public? How about, for example. simplifying your social security system and health? Why not design a system to increase individual activity freedom, strengthen the quality of those less fortunate, ensure adequate health care without user costs, and establish a drug - withdrawal system that someone understands? For the well - being of the common people, it is like a jungle that usually requires a highly educated specialist to understand it. I hereby an advertisement by a government ready to disorganize the public as soon as the financial system is supported. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u3	A respectable president. Recently, the Subcommittee returned a memo to the Committee on an additional meeting for the church meeting. The main opinion in the agreement is the implementation of the 1907 holdings in which the agreement was made in 1997 on the properties and the ultimate cost of the State's renovations. A second question is, What is the contribution of the State on account of 62 C.E.? The constitution to support and protect the national church. Based on the agreements being made, it must be assumed that the Church Meeting contains a renovations due to both the possession and the scholarship due to 62rd. What's missing in the agreement is dissociation of these two. The views of the 1984 and 1992 church committees give careful consideration to the development of church land estates and a list of earths that are believed to belong to the Church at the time of the report. Hence, the church meeting must have been viewed as a matter of dispensing property. The value of their land at that time was over 1 billion. It is evident, then, that the final quality of the church meeting was made, and it is evident that the overall contribution of that property is possible. It seems, however, that no one has particularly kept such an arrangement in mind, although it might be expected that both the Ministry and the State Department were to carry out that assignment. We now enjoy a new legal environment in public finance, and it would be reasonable to look to them in a new contract. According to the law, only under strict conditions can contracts be established for a longer period than five years. There appears to be no longer a longer contract requirement, so it is odd that a 15 - year review should be made. It can't stand the law. Finally, the extent and quality of the work involved in the contract need to be defined, the conditions that meet payment and monitoring. There is much to consider in these matters. It's about renovation of the largest piece of property ever made in the history of Iceland if the agreement is forever. However, it does not hold a view, so our obligation is to protect the tax paid by the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u4	Mr. President. I would like to give my first speech in the Allied Council of Iceland to discuss a matter that is thought - provoking to me, i.e. the state of the part of the country I belong to, the Northern West. I'd like to start by saying that it's very good to be a resident in the part of the country, but the development of the past few years is in such a way that action is needed. No matter what criteria are used, the northern part of the West is below the national average, the lowest, or the next, in the majority of them. If the population of population is surveyed from 199803-19, the country's population increased by 30% while the population in the Northland was reduced by 12%, by 1,025. True, if checked, September 1, 2018, the country had an increase of 1.3% and 1%, respectively. If the number of Western countries had followed a national average of 1,260,2018, it would have increased by 920 people in the part of the country, a reduction of 134. If we look at population numbers from 20101⁄2018, the increase would have been 919 but we have an increase of 122 in real life. According to the review of the European Agency's average employment income in 2017, the average income in the country's Northern West is 2.9 million a year. In the southern part of the country, they are 3.1, while the West is 3.3, with a national average of 3.5 million at the same time. The answer is the lowest value of any part of the country, less than 600,000 dollars. below the national average. Clearly, the national part needs government assistance to reverse this trend. Increased activity to the region, as well as the country's construction of each layer of industrial activity, is essential. I want this to call attention to the more serious situation in the part of the country and challenge the government to produce practical measures before it is too late.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u5	V.E.G. President. Health issues are so often discussed at the council. I had a meeting on a budget board this morning, and it's just that you feel like you're always at the same meeting a year from now on. In 2009, I attended a convention, and health matters are always discussed very extensively. There is always talk about more money missing into the Land Hospital, and especially nursing homes are discussed. We've added a huge amount of money to the hospital, and I think that it must be considered in what way governance is needed because it is clearly not a solution to raising funds. In the case of nursing homes, there is good work to be done at the Ministry of Health. Nevertheless, we still live in a situation today that includes those who are supposed to be enrolled in a nursing home but who are still in a position to be unable to make it. It's increasing the cost of the system. They're being built and it'll take some time, but I think we'll continue to hear those voices, despite the fact that there will be action. I encourage senators to try to look at this group in a new light and to reflect on all the stones that we can do better. Health issues are the biggest issues in each region. I'd like to draw the attention of the United States Congress in a fine article that I read this morning about the state of the medical flight by the local council of Hafdís Gunnarsdóttir, the chairman of the town council of Isafjörður Sigurðardóttir, who is the mayor and the point of the Independence Party in the Western Islands, where they express concern about the patient flight and status of these two countries with regard to the fact that response time is too long. We need to consider this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u6	Mr. President. The language of various minority groups among nations, ethnic groups, individual regions, or territories around the world has long been focused on the subject. We Icelanders have wanted to interfere with such matters, especially in the latter time as some special minister of reconciliation and agreement, sometimes exerting themselves in that role and perhaps even more as far away from the event itself. This is a recent event in a country that we have many of us have traveled to. This country is a member of the European Union itself, and this country is also with us in NATO. Spain's Supreme Court recently passed judgment on dozens of political leaders from Catalonia, who had spent more than two years in custody and sentenced them to a long prison sentence, a total of over 100 years, the longest sentence of 13 years in prison. According to the news, the same Supreme Court is responsible for their imprisonment and the possibility of appeal does not appear to be the case. These men, politicians, had not shown or encouraged violence, but they were fighting for the independence of territory in Spain. It's happening in a country that's close to us. This could, indeed, be a worthy assignment for the European Court of Human Rights to consider. Mr. President. I express a lot of concern about the legalities these judgments give evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u7	A respectable president. Terrorism, paralysis, pain, persistent pain, anger, rash, sleep disorder, insomnia, numbness, inadequacy, personality changes, financial worries, etc. The sufferer should prepare his parcodine prete tablets and other medicinal products, keep quiet until it comes to him, first wait to get on the waiting list for the specialist and then to get on the list of operations. Young people, middle - aged people, and older people, who are sick and who are on a monthly waiting list, a year, or longer, consume thousands of painkillers and many other medicines. That's a serious matter. It's possible that they're making drug addicts. I am contacted by sick people who complain that they cannot get into surgery for cancer, replacement surgery, or other vital procedures that they are currently on the waiting list. How serious it is to let people down on a waiting list in front of their children, their mates, and their relatives! We are under obligation to help sick people who live on painkillers, anti - inflammatory drugs, and other medicines, and they need sleeping medication to help them sleep for pain. No one wants to be sentenced to wait for a waiting period of illness, a prison that damages people mentally and physically. The Pediatrics and Youth Department has kids on a waiting list. Believe me, no one wants to stay and it's our job to make sure it's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u8	Mr. President. I would like to discuss public work in the country, not only the transfer but also the location of new jobs and the design of the work. The successful transport of the institutions in the country is to be met; the construction agency, the camp loan fund, the Geographic, a part of the employment agency, the birth reserve etc. How, then, can most jobs without location be ended in the capital area and their transport is mostly in the same direction from the country? How could it be that even though a whole country is in charge of it, the whole area of the capital was placed in a whole place? Almost every new assignment and public work ends in the same place. Increased work is being done by central organisations, often with the loyal support of officials in the councils, to take on jobs and projects from the country, especially if they follow income. I'll mention Oceanographic Institutes, Natural Science Institutes, Justices, National Registry, and particularly the Environment Agency, who are applying for the work of health monitoring that rural society operates in cooperation across the country. These institutions sign into law and regulations in the power of their position as advisers and closers of the tools on machines thus seek out the old and new assignments that will be made. There is certainly a good example here, as well as in the United States, which takes place in Reykjavík. I think it's a good first step to move a country bank to a country that's good for the work he's doing. We need to unite in deporting this journey and that public activity in the country will be a stage, not of the way people walk through life and their career, but of their destination. To point out the scope of public witnessing in the region of Denmark, which seems to have been extremely successful. Here, work is important, and it is important that governments take the initiative and apply themselves through government officials and agencies to increase the number of jobs and public jobs in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u9	Mr. President. Opinions have long been united in rural society, and it can be said that this is the case today, for it really is the course of action. I have not personally been in favor of legalized alliances, as expected in the district Minister's bill, now being discussed on a committee committee. What I wanted to talk about today, though, is the planned integration of rural communities in the East. Saturday's program is to vote for the uninterruptedness of the Deepvogs, the urban population of the deserts, the Southlands and the River Valleys. This is a geographically large unit that will count about 5,000 if possible. I have observed some of the leading people, and I think that the type of work that has taken place is essential that it is usually possible to continue. The people who have taken the lead in the work have rolled over a number of stones and looked to the unity that has already taken place in many parts of the earth and learned from them a lesson. Ideas about three people at home in each community are designed to bring a measure of power back to the settlement in a particular closer service that I think should be of great importance to them. It was also a pleasure to see young Austjons who took the matter into their own hands, thinking that the young people in the region needed to be examined, and this gave their young ones shaded votes in high schools and high school at the Lans. The purpose, of course, is to arouse the interest of young people in elections and a significantly greater part of the group that voted, less than 80%, is to be met together. After observing, I'm convinced, like the young people, that these are good steps, and it's very interesting for the communities that have been wondering about unity to watch how they're doing. I encourage the inhabitants of these settlements to be largely settled on Saturday and express their thoughts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u10	Mr. President. I'm here to discuss competitiveness and the production of Icelandic electricity. Last week, I attended a fine meeting of the Society of Industrial Society, which was introduced by a Community report, the Icelandic Electricity ◯ benefits and competitiveness. Many very good topics were presented at the meeting, and good table talks were at the end. I am one of the senators who, along with specialists in a group, are working to shape energy policy to the next 20 to 30 years. It is a very important job, and it was made clear during the last week of the meeting in business and landings that much attention is being made to her. It is hoped that for the first time, good vision will be shaped for the long - term in the key issues of energy. The report of the Industrial Association includes: up to a quarter of the population export is based on the production and use of electricity. Energy production per country is by no means greater than in Iceland, and much depends on the next country. Here, though, it is appropriate to put this in a larger context, as is done in a industry report. It points out that the production of renewable energy sources is 20 terava hours or 0.4% of produced energy produced by renewable energy sources, which count in total 5,000 terava hours worldwide. Here I am discussing the basis for our community, our energy production and its use, which is one of the basics of an Icelandic community. We should discuss the energy issues more and more in the Assembly Hall. A competitive electrical price is the key to the long-term competitiveness of the country, and this is true of both the job and the country's home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u11	Mr. President. Southland is the largest tourist area in the country, and it is still a major means for tourism, agriculture, seas, and ports, to name something, and I am not minimizing other areas. Everyone knows that the infrastructure has not been the focus of major tourist growth, despite very likely keeping the destinations in the area much of the economic growth that has been due to them, and it was just when it needed the most. There is still 21 single bridges in this region, and the road system in many other respects gets too little maintenance, and it does not live near this traffic. It may be concluded that many accidents, and some very large ones, unfortunately, have been the least due to poor road systems. Of course, much is being done, and it is commendable, but it can be done more if necessary. The situation is somehow so that no roads or other infrastructure can be taken care of, without requiring users to pay special attention to it, and then they are very narrowly defined users, and they do not cover all that they enjoy. How would the road system in these regions be if the small communities in the past should have lived under the project? What is the benefit, though, of this being done for the community as a whole? Of course, it's made itself a lot better. That is still the case today. I believe the national pension funds are very good at lending money to road repairs. In fact, those who raise money to old age have not provided food for mills or fuel or for international trips that await them to be taken from the shelf but have gathered money that can never be worth more than the power of the economy when it comes to it. If the infrastructure is well built, it'll be stronger in the future. It's the connection I want to make, it's to use this opportunity, build wood, make small use of the economy, engine and workforce, and anything else that's available. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The best way to promote the economy is to build up the present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u12	Mr. President. I will be quick to respond to comments presented early in the talk. paritaprevir Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir. She went on to a press conference held on Monday, where they presented plans and measures to reduce unnecessary burden on the topic areas of her employment. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, the Eymarsdóttir of Eymarsdo said that the financial system, which is a misunderstanding, is not a matter of concern that we usually talk about as financial systems, which are then banks, financial institutions, and so on. The actions these two have at the highest level. Ministers preached did not touch in any way what we normally talk about as a financial system. That's why there was a debate. In this regard, a senator may think that in some material, he was based on either a misunderstanding or a failure to learn exactly what was being discussed. These two Ministers introduced plans in the areas to reduce unnecessary stress in their sector, and hopefully other ministers in their fields because the fact is that we can agree that it is important that clear and specific guidelines on professional activities can also be unnecessaryly restricted from normal employment, innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises and make it difficult for the individual to gain strength in the sector of employment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u13	A respectable president. We do not have to choose between the hydrocarbons, the recovery of wetlands, or land healings. We're supposed to do all that work, but we're going to have a good choice of land for different projects. We must keep the best farming ground to use food and food production, whether it is the most efficient wetlands, molands, or winglands. Another type of land may be wise to use for recovery. In land use, it is best to integrate multiple targets, e.g. can bind soil in deforestation or deforestation and create wood resources, build up pastures, and provide shelter for livestock, all on the same level of land. In that case it would be to prevent both carbon emissions from the land and to bind carbon in wood and other vegetation as well as to grow food. From a discussion of community media following the 2019 biology conference, it might be concluded that 12% of Iceland is now covered in forest or that the crops should be cultivated in 12% of the country. They're both far from us. Forests are now covering about 2% of the country. Of these, 1.5% are natural forests, and half a percent of the population is covered by forest grown. Of these, a fourth birch is a domestic species. The government's target of crops is up to 5% of the world's lowland ceilings, below 400 feet [400 m] high, or about 2% of Iceland's population. However, the chances have been made that, as a reduction in economic use, natural forest roofing could up to 6◯8% and cultivated forest and forestry may be 1◯2%. Granted, it is important that these goals be settled. It does so, not by adjusting carbon binding methods, but by integrating land use and planning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to pick up Aarneshrep's subject and call the senator's attention to the situation that exists there. Today, on October 23, Arneshrepp is impossible. The GSN is in effect, which means it's only spring and autumn. The cost of adding snowcapped rivers is like a grain of sand on the land island. The road to the Yearneshrepp should not be fixed, at least for the next five years, according to a new transport program at the highest. Transport and Regional Minister introduced last week. A road through a hunting neck that connects Arneshrep to the outside world is according to the plan of a 2nd period, which translates into 2,2024,202028. Governments have failed. In 2003 a resolution of special community assistance was adopted, but there was little to it, and each was adopted by the second tow in the long sleep in government care. During the 2011 4,2012 Parliamentary resolution proposal for a special hurry to take up the Aarnes Slap and were exporters from both government and government positions. The suggestion was not over, though the will was great. In 2014, Aureshreppur sought to become a participant in the project Prohibable but rejected, which was then introduced in 2017. This project has been important for the quality of life in a crisis, but stroke power and funding in its entire project are not sufficient, and governments do not work well enough with the ideas presented. Now the population of the crash is less than 50. In modern society, we expect road transport requirements throughout the year, electrical security, and fiber optics, but none of these live in the Aarnes camp. I want to finally thank Jón Jónsson, a philosopher on the beach, for bringing attention to the state of the Yearneshrepp, but it is clear that Aarnesphret needs more friends than he is if he lives there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u15	Mr. President. In winter and in recent years, I have been so fortunate in my privilege of serving on a Senate Committee on Children's issues that are governed by nature. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. The Committee has the support of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Children, which is brilliant. But why am I bringing this up? Yes, it is so that recently Kopavogstown, in cooperation with this same Ministry, received an international prize for its project of a sort of measuring table for the well - being of children in what we would call Western happy communities. The levels that have usually been used by international institutions to appreciate how children actually do so in communities that are much less useful to communities such as ours, where the core point is much higher than in many other communities. Thus, it is very important that such projects be started, and there is reason to commend Kopavogstown in particular and his staff for having invented this. It's a device that will be useful everywhere in Iceland and therefore more in the world to measure the real status of children. Then we're looking at factors that are much more on the depth than that, for example. whether children have access to immunizations or clean water, which is what many other societies of the world are most looking at. Happily, we are longer, but we still need useful equipment that can measure how our children feel.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u16	A respectable president. I measure the opinion of more than that. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for a resolution of an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention on the involvement of the North Macedonian Republic. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Anna Jóhannsdóttir, Ólöf Hrefna Kristjánsdóttir and Ágúst Ágústsson from the Ministry of State. This synonym is responsible for a review of Allied sources confirming an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention, dated April 4, 1949. The additional agreement regarding the membership of the Northern Macedonian Republic of Brussels on February 6, this year. In accordance with the terms of the contract, it is valid when all members of the North Atlantic Convention have announced their confirmation of it by the U.S. government, the chairman of the agreement. As a result, the Executive Director of NATO will invite the Northern Macedonian government to become a member of the Northern Atlantic Convention. I'd like to briefly review this additional contract. The Republic of Northern Macedonia became independent under the name Macedonians of September 8, 1991, but before, as known, part of Yugoslavia. Because of opposition from the Greeks to the name of the State and rejection of the term, the Atlantic Union presented its involvement in the peace work so called 1995 under the name of the former Yugoslavia Republic of Macedonia, and it has worked with the coalition, all the streets since then. The government was then offered a preparatory discussion on the possible role modalities and reforms in 1999, which would immediately be resolved by a conflict of the name before the arrival of an Member State. The Athenian and Skapje governments agreed on the name northern Macedonia and, following this, the foreign ministers of the Atlantic Community agreed to invite the State into the coalition. The government itself pays the cost of adjusting its own defense to the Community's integrated defense system and is not expected to change the existing Member States' own protection programmes, increase the cost of defenses, or carry any additional cost of admission of the Northern Macedonian Republic of NATO. At this rate, the members of the Community grow to 30, and this is certainly a pleasure. The Atlantic Community has always stressed that enlargement will lead to greater stability and security in Europe and further contribute to the democratic development of the new Member States. I welcome this new member in NATO. The majority suggest that the case be signed and signed, except for the ones standing here, well. Councilmen Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, Álfheiður the daughter of Eymarsdóttir, A Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir and Logi Einar Einarsson. The nominees Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u17	Mr. President. I submit to the opinion of a smaller part of the State Department on proposal for a resolution of an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention on the involvement of the North Macedonian Republic. As the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee explained, the Allied warrants are being made to confirm an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention from April 4, 1949, on the involvement of the Republic of Northern Macedonia into the Brussels 6th of February. As we all know, Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Union has always been controversial. Sadly, the nation has never been asked or given an opportunity to express its clear position on national involvement in the alliance. It's obvious, at least In the minds of many, that the alliance has long ceased to define itself simply as a defense and has taken on tasks beyond its original purpose. A smaller part of the State Department, which writes under this opinion, does not feel justified in expanding the alliance at this time, even though the changed state of northern Macedonia from the end of the Cold War is taken into account. Despite a long order and a good deal between the Greeks and the northern Macedoniums in April, they did. for the name of the country after decades of their controversy, it is considered that a fine agreement does not automatically lead to involvement in the Atlantic Community, despite the close cooperation of both parties from 1995. At this confirmation, the members of the Community are increasing to 30, reminding them that strong forces have rich interests in the expansion of the Atlantic Community. In particular, weapons producers, many of the world's most armed countries of all Member States, are opposed to the rich obligation of their Member States on the provision of arms and military contributions. In addition, shortly before the turn of the century, the Atlantic Union changed its course in such a way that it is increasingly out of its borders. These include direct and indirect participation in wars and scissors in Africa and Asia. Sadly, the consequences of these parts of war have proved to be terrible for the inhabitants of the countries, and these wars play a role in the growing numbers of refugees from war and its consequences over the past few years. It is true to remind you that the number of refugees who are fleeing because of war, forced labor, poverty, and the consequences of war has never been greater than in recent years, as statistics indicate, 70 million people. In the opinion of the Committee, representatives of my share are calling for the left movement's policy that Iceland is to stand outside military alliances and refuse military service. I think it's known to most of the people in this room and to those who are listening to the movement's policy is that Iceland's interests are the best paid off from the coalition. It may not be possible to agree that it is a positive step to agree that it is good for world security to extend or expand the days of the military alliance NATO. On the contrary, all of us must work to lay down military alliances, to preserve world peace, stability, and security through democraticly developed territories and world organizations. NATO growth is not a positive introduction to the development of the most promising environmental security sector in Europe and beyond. Rather, it would be through the granting of international institutions, such as the United Nations Security and Cooperation Organization for Europe, the European Council and the United Nations Security Council. There are also questions about what has been developing within the order of the Atlantic Community in recent years, with a changed landscape in international politics, where the coalition has really changed and developed, but surely it did not draw together. It is also of interest to note that when the Cold War ended, the European Union officially, in the political field, began to find new assignments that would lead to great interest, to take care that the alliance worked and grew, as we see here. On the other hand, we do not have the self - determination rights of the nations, nor can we tell other countries what to do, of course, to make a personal decision, hopefully in a democratic way. With the position that has been attributed here, the smaller item will sit behind the payment of this proposal. Under the pages of Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u18	Mr. President. The man standing here is the chairman of the NATO Council of Iceland and the previous annual meetings and meetings in that field have been delegates from northern Macedonia and they have sought many years to reach the North Atlantic Union. I was asked to say a greeting to the Icelandic World of Congress at the NATO annual meeting held in London for over a week and to thank for the support involved in the matter. It's been waiting a long time, and now it seems to be happening. They hoped that this would all work out in December at an international summit, but during the election in Spain it will be delayed. I'm just saying hi to the North Macedonian representatives from the NATO annual meeting, they think it's an extremely important case for their country, and that it was also to ensure that there was a measure of peace and greater mutuality in the Balkans. I just wanted to share it with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u19	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to set up stage arts. The bill on stage art is designed to replace the code No. 138/1998, drama song. The bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature but was not granted. During the two decades since the sentence of acting law, there have been some changes that require a review of the law. To illustrate, the Agency's work environment has changed, the authority's responsibilities have increased, as well as the need for one total law to cover the background in general, such as to form literature and other arts. The bill seeks to make acting legislation comparable to the changes produced by the Ministry of Education and Culture in Literature, Arts, and Music. In these areas, governments have been appointed or expected to be provided with the arts that serve as ministers for counseling on the issues involved. It has also been developed to promote the relevant arts with support, as well as the setting up of a foundation for the management of an office or centre that serves the relevant fund and conducts a presentation on the national and national lists. Experience has shown that this arrangement facilitates management, perspective, and cooperation with the funds and is designed to promote the arts. The bill is divided into four chapters, and the main changes involved are as follows: Chapter I strategies the aims of the law, as well as the term for the field arts. It is a term used for acting, dancing, opera transport, puppet playing, and other related arts, such as circus. Il. chapter is a law on the National Theatre. Some changes come from current acting code. The rules for national theater managers change so that more demands are made for their education, as well as for the time of command and the possible reanimation of the national theater director. The vacancy should always be made available for application at the end of each order period. A national theater agreement has been changed so that professional groups of the societal artists will no longer appoint three members of the National Theatre, while two representatives will be appointed without a form. In III. A chapter on the Icelandic dance party is discussed. The structure of this chapter parallels the chapter on the National Theatre. The bill assumes that the terms of the Icelandic dance party will be legalized for the first time. Until now, the dance party has worked only on the basis of the regulations established by a minister, first no. 878/1999 and now No. 14/2002. IV. will be discussed in other fields of activity than in member countries, as well as the guidelines for sectoral advice and stratospherics. The conference's list is set up by two departments, a department of professional groups, and a share of interest groups in stage arts. Then a minister is authorized to delegate a third party to the national and international presentations of the Icelandic public arts and institutions. Such a covering centre is not yet fired, but it can be expected that the management of such presentations will be about 20 to 30 million. K. Annually, in line with other listed presentations, which are now operating. This cost is not expected in budget 2020,2024. In the event that we set up a presentation center for stage arts, the minister will use that frame or request additional funds. In addition, there is provision for provisional action, requiring that a minister be appointed by a commission that must be submitted to the establishment of national opera. Comments in consultation with the outline of a bill made wishes that the Icelandic opera's position would be maintained for a long time. A respectable president. Then I'm going to review a discussion that has occurred with this bill. Significant consultations have already been made. At the first development of the bill, main stakeholders were consulted, as well as the general presentation of the bill on the Ministry's Web in the fall of 2011, where comments or tips on the subject were made. At that time, stakeholders were consulted with the continued work of the Ministry bill, taking into account many of the comments they made. Plans for the bill were presented in the September 27, issue of Awake! There were six reviews everywhere. Draws that the bill was published on a recommendation on October 31, 2018. There were 13 reviews in the billing drafts. Besides the above, meetings with stakeholders have been held in the past few years, and as far as possible, we have endeavored to make the comments that we feel are falling toward improving the bill. The Ministry may have been joined by a specialist in stage arts who prepared to cooperate with the Ministry on finals of the bill. A respectable president. The above changes aim to establish a similar framed value for stage arts, such as other lists, i.e. On the one hand, it is about government institutions in the field and on the other, the funds and advice that work on the forwarding of the world list outside the walls of the institutions. Is it my opinion that these changes will be achieved by the approved bill? A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee following the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u20	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill for a song on stage art that I believe is the best case. As I passed through the bill, I noticed that in chapter 5 of the report on speaking, it's said that it's part of the structure of professional activities outside the largest urban area. How was that handled, and how is this accomplished? Then there is the question of the sum. I haven't figured out how much is in these funds, but for example. it is said that the overall contribution from the fund to interested activities should be at least 18%. What, then, are we talking about a lot of money in this regard? The second question, as well as the key, is how to make sure that there is an equality in all the land, that everyone may come to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very much obliged to ask. It is clear to me that the stage arts are growing worldwide. What we've been doing, both this government and other governments, is building cultural dealers all over the country, and now with this government, we're building cultural dealers in the Sea of Galilee and Egls. We have Hof in Akureyri. A culture hall was also to be examined at Selephoss, and this is an ideal place for stage art to flourish. Of course, in terms of funds and access, all the Americans and artists have the same access to funds. I strongly emphasize that everyone uses them and applies to further the arts throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I just like it, but as I say, this bill is mostly called the National Theatre and the Opera House. There is no record of anything special in the country, and especially in the smaller communities, how those who would like to participate in such activities. Dancing and other forms of art should be able to get a situation, as well as to hire qualified people to teach it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u23	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, it is vital that his art be enjoyed throughout the country. We stress it, as I mentioned by building these cultures, and I take it as a good tip, too, to the bill that we here may need to put more emphasis on the wording on exposé in the country. I suggest that when the bill goes to the committee, they'll make more of it, and we'll just look at it. I notice this because this is how both education and culture have to govern the level of education that all people must be able to practice culture. We see evidence of this in academic research and other such studies that this is not necessarily so. One of the things I'd like to apply is that we can guarantee this equality regardless of our habitat, our economy, your background and wherever you are or where you come from. This is of utmost importance, for if we do not, there is a chance that there will be a degree of discrimination and that we may not have the same access. I also place great emphasis on this and on the subject to form the leisure cards that most rural society has. They are enormously important to ensure the equal availability of children and young people to art, sports, and so forth. We're supposed to be a community where everyone can enjoy themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u24	Mr. President. My business up here is three. First of all, thanks for the fact that a bill like this has come out. Second, I wanted to ask a little more about the access, and third, I sometimes take my blood to duty as an old dancer, although it wasn't in the classical field, and this is just about the Icelandic dance party. First, it is of utmost importance that culture, art, and the more we support it, the better. A creative thought becomes a dominant quality in the future society that will be desired. While these activities are certainly spoken of throughout the country, we know that cultural agreements made with other settlements are not comparable to the structure here. I understand that this is where the main institutions need to be. Of course, in the crowd, the National Theater and the Icelandic Party need to be, and I don't make a comment about it, and the amount that goes there must not be reduced. But I ask when we see the growth of a job theater decades, e.g. In Akureyri, now new on the West, if it doesn't have to somehow look at that position and settle an object between them. Second, I would like to ask, " Wouldn't it have to be more ambitious plans that everyone really has a chance to attend these events? ' It's expensive to go to theater, and it's expensive to go to a ballet show. However, there is something to be made available to all, including those who come from less - important families.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and the interest he shows the bill and also for sharing the experience he had as a dancer in his day. I'd like to see this, I haven't seen this glory yet, and maybe he'll introduce it to me. I'd like to mention some of the factors we're doing with the country and further developing culture in the country. That's a plan, first of all. There's a lot of money there. We have cultural contracts, and in my ministry, we have taken this into account if we see that there may be a need to expand or add, and the work is excellent. Hv. A senator knows about this. We have a scholarship to professional groups and to interest groups, and of course, we have an artist's payment so that all the people of the country can apply for it. The bioavailability of the trigeminal art. A senator pointed out that we need something to consider as a community with access issues. One of the things I've been studying in my Ministry is the museums, both the libraries and all the museums we have. We know that when the cost is relatively low or even free of charge in museums there is great increase in interest of collections. How vital it is to promote culture in the country! We have been considering whether it is possible to look at such countries as the United States, which are often discussed here in the hall but not from culture and art. In the United States, the capital is free of charge to all museums. All museums are packed in every weekend. It's just part of the family's life to go to a museum, and I think we should take a look at it. If a body of Congress is willing to support extra money in that situation, of course, I'm here for an interview.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u26	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. A minister is interested in improving access, and he may need to examine some of the maps that people receive to attend such events. It is also true that when the National Theater reaches the west, it is requested on their part that local communities pay to stay and support. Equality requires more work. Because it's the highest. Ministers talk about the museums, the museums, which are very precious to us, I'd like to ask her a question. In the next week, I have had a case several times, but a common art program in the country where it is actually seen that young people everywhere are able to care for it. There are artists active in every local community. It would be easy to touch. I would point out that art is not merely a foundation for people who intend to be artists but that is a basis for all the arts, whether they intend to learn architecture, clothing design, photography, and graphic design, so, of course, these are research and basic studies for these people. Can I expect some support from the minister when this case is given? I ask her in the process if there has been any comparison between the coming of the State and its support for different arts, both for study and for the institutions that are the cream and the berries on the cake. Strong organizations, such as museums, reverends, and gods, must be in place. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u27	A respectable president. I was convinced that we would get to see some dance moves, but that wasn't so good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u28	The New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u29	Yeah. On the suggestion. A senator for the general art program and that it is open to everyone, I will examine it very closely because one of the things we see when we look at a set of sets of sessions at the elementary school is that we do not fulfill them, whether in the works or in the arts. I believe this is one of the reasons why there is not as much attendance at training in Iceland as in a reference country. There are about 30% who complete their schooling in Iceland, but in Norway and elsewhere in Europe, that is about 50%. I think this also explains why there's so much elimination in high school. Thus, everything associated with strengthening and strengthening the arts of the land is a positive one. I haven't seen a case yet. A senator and therefore feel that it is not wise for me to make a complete commitment here and now, but I will look at it positively and all that we are doing to further the arts of this country. You're absolutely right. A senator when he mentioned that the future is there. It's in innovation and creative articles, and it's also in great cooperation between art and technology because it's going to be a innovation. They're doing something. Regarding comparison, we are mapling different artistic support and support systems. We are also looking for increased cooperation between arts and creative articles and even setting up its site to better grasp all statistics, all support, presentation and other such. I look at this bill, and I hope, of course, that there will be progress as a factor in strengthening all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u30	V.E.G. President. I move here again a bill to correct the changing of food law, No. 93/1995, with subsequent changes, of antibiotic use. The matter in itself is relatively simple. In 1st. is, by permission of the president: ...after 1 5 C.E. The law's coming up with a new article, 1 5. a, as follows: Companies with a small sale of food should ensure that consumers have access to information on food source and the average use of antibiotics for the production of food in the country. The feeding centre shall provide yearly guidance on the provision of information on the exchange of antibacterial use in the preparation of food. The case has some action and is related to a different language, which was given by the Central Class, while the 1st aviator of the case is codgrimur Sigmundsson. Since this is a matter of marking food with a carbon line, customers are aware of it when they buy food each of their carbon tracks. That case has been given twice before, at 149th and now, at the 150th Council, when Sigmundsson was last in this room as a deputy council member. It is about informing consumers about what goods are available to them in trade agreements so that they can discern what products they are putting in the shopping basket, whether they are choosing products from areas where drug use is high or products from areas where drug use is low. At the beginning of 2017, the World Health Organization published a list of antibacterial resistant bacteria, which were classified by the Agency as 12 family of bacteria by risk categories. In the fall of 2019, the Agency warned that people on earth were running out of useful antibiotics and encouraged the development of new drugs. The director of the Agency then declared on September 20, 2017, that an emergency was developing in the management of patients due to antibiotic resistance. In Britain a report on antibacterial treatments is cited, and it shows that each year some 700,000 people worldwide die of such bacteria. In order to communicate information to consumers, the Food Organization provides information on the exchange of information on the spread of antibacterial use in the production of food, and the idea is that consumers have access to the information in sales. The European Medicines Agency provides a yearly report on the sale of antimicrobials used in 30 European countries. This report provides information on the use of antibiotics in the main import countries of Iceland. That is exactly the information we should share with consumers. V.E.G. President. I want to mention other possible ways to get information to consumers, and really, I think consumers have the right to see this clearly. It involves the use of drugs and the carbon track that food leaves behind. This information should not only be available in shops in my opinion or on products sold, which also contain the origins. Food label today is very small, and the food is not marked properly. Such markings need to be clearer and more pronounced. Then I think it's important for a restaurant to take up meanings on its menus so that when we go to a restaurant and choose something to eat, we can see the carbon track of the dish or the raw materials as well as the origin, the potential drug use and the like. We need to respond to the call for more information on consumers. I hope, of course, that the case is well handled by the Committee. I ask that they be referred to the professional committee. I feel like this whole thing is going to be over, like, a matter of course. A deputy member of the Þorgrímur Sigmundsson so that the store can be arranged as soon as possible to do the information required by consumers to whom we feel it belongs and, of course, the products of the defenses as well as to make a clear choice for consumers when they shop for the home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u31	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in food law. I happen to be a co-sponsor at this bill, and it allows companies with a small sale of food products to ensure that consumers have access to information on the origination of food and the average use of antibiotics for the production of food in that country, i.e. this bill is intended to aim for the spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria. That's the point. Mr. President. One of the greatest medical achievements was the discovery of antibiotics at the beginning of the 20th century. Alexander Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928, which changed lives, first in warfare and then throughout the world. It is easy to imagine, Mr. President, the change from the smallest type of flesh that could lead to death and so that the vast majority of infections, and many well - known, endemic, and often deadly diseases quickly became cures in the middle of the last century. The production of other antibiotics in the coming decades gave rise to the hope that many of the world's most dangerous diseases could be cured and even eliminated. However, the time from the start of antibiotic use did not extend until strains of resistant bacteria developed. Today, some types of bacteria are resistant to almost every type of antibiotic. The World Health Organization has defined antibiotic resistance as one of the world's largest health - care providers. Increased resistance to antibiotics causes problems with the treatment of infections, resulting in poor health consequences and increased health costs. The European Commission estimates that in Europe alone approximately 400,000 infections each year due to resistant pathogens, resulting in 25,000 deaths every year. With increasing travel and trades with food and animal products from corner to corner of the world, antibiotics resistant bacteria are being distributed. Therefore, antibiotic resistance is a global problem. Although the relationship may be complex, antibiotic use is the most potent factor in the development and spread of antibiotic resistance. Incorrect and/or excessive use of antibiotics increases the risk of emergence and spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria. The premise of specific antibacterial measures is to have good and reliable information on the use of antibiotics and the development of resistance. Here, health groups have been encouraged to use antibiotics with responsibility. It is also highlighted in the Healthcare Center for Disease Prevention and is monitored for the occurrence of infections related to health care. Mr. President. There is resistance to antibiotics when bacteria are resistant to the effects of antibiotics that were previously antibacterial. It will then be much harder to treat the infection, and often more expensive medicines or products with widespread toxicity. The bacteria that are protected from many types of antibiotics are called multi-drug resistant bacteria. Antibacterial resistance may occur due to a number of factors, the bacteria' natural defences, new mutations, or the bacteria taking up new genes from another bacteria. Bakteria is long exposed to an antibiotic. Get the bacteria that have been more protected, and this is called, Mr. President, natural selection in the world of bacteria. Therefore, in order to prevent antibiotic resistance, an attempt is made to prevent the wrong or excessive use of antibacterial agents in health care and agriculture and to stop the drainage of drug production into the wild. The use of antimicrobial antibiotics after countries is under rule. In the European Union, e.g. the use of antimicrobials in agriculture is limited. It is recommended that you avoid using so-called old antibiotics unless you have to. In Iceland most of the antibiotics are being used in all North countries. The overall use is still smaller than the average use in Europe. In 2017 the overall use of antibiotics in Iceland increased by 3% compared with the last few years. The more common incidences of Salmonella and prepared bacteria are relatively low in Iceland compared to other countries, where antibiotics are resistant to these pathogens, where it is higher. Such pathogens are rarely found in chickens and pigs in Iceland or in less than 10% of animals. A health - care professional, though, warns that commercial agriculture can be the source of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Mr. President. I have the hope that this bill will now be visited by a committee for a careful discussion with experts in this field and that we will try everything we can to prevent the best ability to spread antibiotic resistant bacteria, as is the case in many neighboring countries. To do so, we need to use every means available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u32	Mr. President. When Margrét Tryggvadóttir, a deputy member of the United States, sat during the days, she made a contingency proposal to discuss the meaning of food carbon trajectory. The interpretation proposal reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide environmental and resource ministers in part that there will be indications of food carbon trajectory, with the aim of making it easier for consumers to choose groceries. Whether this material is later than the Fall Summit in 2020, the minister before the Council of the Council gives a legal hearing. They're what they were. Councilmen who associate with Tryggvadóttir Gervadóttir are Elíasdóttir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson of S. Brjánsson, Ingi In Kristinsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir Helgadjörn's daughter, Mólfjörnsson, Logi Einar Einarsson, who stands here, Víglundsson G. Hardborndur, Gördur Hjordursson, and Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir Onvardótir. The proposed report speaks of climate change, i.e. Global climate change and its impact are a major component of modern - day solution. This problem will be solved only by concerted efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Carbon track is the name of a level designed to demonstrate its effect by e.g. The production of greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions by supplying carbon dioxide levels that are released from production. The meanings of food carbon lines support government policy that Iceland will become a non-carbon objector in the year 2040. According to figures provided by the European Union's Office of Health from 2016, this team studied Matera, drink, and tobacco 6% of a total carbon track at standards. As a result, diet changes are one factor that can reduce negative effects on the environment. It is known that many people try to adjust their consumption in ways that are minimally harmful to the environment, e.g. by not taking any veterinary medicinal product. However, no reliable information on the carbon emissions produced by certain foods is available, and the proposal is intended to meet consumers and to facilitate their selection of food based on their environmental impact. Many aspects of food production can affect their carbon lines, but they are not obvious consumers. These include the use of carbon dioxide in larceny in Iceland, which increases the level of carbon dioxide of domestic products such as tomatoes and aguar. Examples are for the meanings of food foods abroad. The first meaning of this theme appeared in the United Kingdom in 2006 called Carbon Production Label, which was founded by the British company called Carbon Trust, now internationally united, Carbon Trust Group. Before Carbon Trust, members of Britain's trade and British governments were involved, but the community is now a global organization. In Britain, individual stores have taken in indications of food carbon trajectory. Such markings have also been recorded in Switzerland, where independent associations, Climatop, offer producers special meaning products that have relatively low carbon levels compared with other comparable products. They detect uniform label on various products, e.g. A+++ target within the European Union of specific electronic devices, which are designed to help consumers select energy-sparing products. In this country, consumers know how to form the Swamp, which is official Norse Environmental Mark and the documenthole which is designed to make it easier for consumers to select more healthy foods, rather than just encourage producers to develop better products and thus contribute to more wholesome food supply. Transporters believe that it is necessary for an independent carer, but not the producers themselves, to calculate the carbon track due to the production and transport of the food to be marked on the basis of international standards. Manufacturers and immigrants will be e.g. has to mark food as a result of the release of 100 grams per product and emissions per kilocaloria. Mr. President. I recommend that this fine interpretation proposal be made to the employment committee, hoping that it will receive good publicity there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u33	A respectable president. We're discussing a proposal for an interpretation of the meaning of food carbon trajectory. I'll support her whole mind and thank her. Her attendant, Tryggvadóttir Trygvevótir, for volunteering her and Oddný G. Harðardóttir for moving her here. It is a little strange in itself how we get into the import of food and how incredibly long we take food, even food that we can make here ourselves. Another factor that also follows these Gunnian migrations across half the globe or even beyond the way these foods are taken care of. They are packed in plastic boxes and may even be packed with plastic boxes. It's an amazing plastic usage that often comes with food. We are to protect ourselves and are under obligation to have this clearly marked. The public should be able to observe the amazing amount of carbon track that comes with food on a long journey to Iceland. I'll take as an example a strawberry that we're moving a long way. We can grow them ourselves, and that's why I'm saying it's amazing that we don't have much growth and can get them to the point where they can become competitive with Europe. It tells itself that if the Dutch can grow as they do, we should be able to do so by means of our pure water and electricity. In that case, however, gardeners and others must have the energy at a favorable price. I've heard they'd be delighted if they got the energy at a rate similar to a big-time plant or a silica plant or other major manufacturers. We're supposed to make sure these people get the energy at that price to grow. We have an obligation to do so. There is something else that we forget and that we have come a little far away. When I grew up, my father had a potato garden in New York City. At that time, it seemed that people could cultivate cabbages, cools, potatoes, and all sorts of foods. Not today, I'm sure. That's a lot of pressure. In fact, it is in exceptional circumstances that children have a position to cultivate. This vital culture, which would save huge imports of food and reduce carbon levels, is basically dying. The land in the capital and elsewhere seems to be expensive, for it seems that it is impossible to leave a spot on which to grow. I'm fully committed to the matter, and we are under obligation to document all packages on the amount of carbon spores and the amount of pollution involved in the product. It is not only the carbon line underneath it but also the use of plastics. I can't figure it out, and I'm completely speechless about moving foreign water in plastic bottles to Iceland, as we have seen. That's completely incomprehensible. First, it is strange for someone to think about it, and second, that the water sells cruelly. It's kind of weird, and I think we should ask how it really is that such things do things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u34	President. I can see that my name is not among the transporters, so I have either overlooked or I have simply not been able to answer in time. Of course, I would have liked to be on this council, for I love this and I need to support the increased information sharing to consumers in all form. I've often predicted the best way to deliver this message, how to do it, because there's so much meaning on food, if we need to start thinking that some QR code is put on the product where you can get all kinds of information about it. This is also an incentive and affects companies themselves and how companies produce products, how they produce it, if consumers are aware of these things, and if they have the necessary information to make a conscious decision on how to support companies as we shop and waste. I think this is just the best and absolutely necessary development into the future, i.e. to make a conscious decision about the way we shop.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u35	Mr. President. Something made me understandably earlier because I was going to ask for a candidate to answer and to have opinions on certain matters from it, but I welcome this synopsis proposal for the meaning of food carbon trajectory. As we know, discussions about carbon tracks and markings on food have taken place for some time, and hopefully most people are aware of this when they are faced with the choice of food for dinner or lunch, whether the apple or each orange had less pollution and less carbon tracks behind them. Well, there has been a lack of meaning. I began preparing for more than a year ago a form of conjugal proposal for the meaning of a carbon - related food cycle, and then I began to encounter some technical obstacles to what exactly to take into account when it comes to the meaning of food carbonic processes, such as the source of food on meat or certain vegetables. It would also be necessary to consider working with such a synonym and work as a symbol of food carbon trajectory, if work could be prioritised for meaning, i.e. to put domestic food ahead of that job and perhaps run out of carbon markings on domestic foods earlier. I have full faith that this will be handled well by the government. It's also very good. Needs as good as any. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson came up with a decline in energy and electricity to the food plants. This is what we've been discussing at the council for 20 years or more. It has been needed long ago and will hopefully be taken into account in the work of a new government food policy. I also wanted to point out that in a paper with the synonym, it is said that according to figures from the European Economic Office of the European Union since 2016, the class of Matera, drinks, and tobacco 6% of the total carbon record. Also interesting is the report that points to the use of carbon dioxide in the heat industry in Iceland, which increases the levels of carbon dioxide from national products such as tomatoes and aguar. I welcome and support the synonym and all efforts to mark food as well as that progress towards developing and promoting the shopping policy of public institutions and companies. Also, shopping is guided by carbon sporometers and the fact that we buy food, whether in public institutions or in stores, when we look for food that is produced in the surrounding environment and near the site of the sale. I also think this would be an excellent source of encouragement, and perhaps more than an incentive, for business and shopping to sell such foods and let consumers know that buying vegetables, fruits, meats, and fish from the surrounding environment is the least amount of carbon. I welcome the Parliamentary decree, Mr. President, to support it and all efforts to make consumers more informed when it comes to choosing less climate - changing foods.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u36	Had a president missed or misunderstood his mark. Of course, a senator's request for the answer earlier asked him to respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u37	President. I would like to recommend a joint synopsis proposal made by Porta and the Conspiracy for a green community contract. The climate crisis we face in recent years and decades has intensified, and we face frightening facts and difficult decisions because to deal with the problem, we need to dive rather than treat the symptoms as normal. It's no simple matter when the rotture is under attack, the perpetrator is largely a ideologies that have been the basis for our systems of design, economy, and society. Our major and most reliable scientists expect to have an increase in temperature that can have dramatic consequences for mankind all around the globe, but what is going to happen is human farms or planet Earth's biology. A large proportion of scientists have emphasized the importance of government response and immediate action. This is our contribution to Pirata and the United States in that direction. In spring, however, members of Porta and the United States made controversies for a green agreement at the same time. Not only was the proposals of both classes provided the same day, so it is evident that both groups of climates weigh heavily, and if we are to succeed, cooperation at all levels of the matter is necessary. We've decided to join together for the battle against a major climate threat by a joint Parliamentary arrangement for a green Community Convention for Iceland. The circumstances we face call for cooperation and cooperation between all parties. The green treaty answers young people to their cry for real and needed action against the climate. The planned government action programme simply does not work; it lacks more specific and time - consuming goals and much more capital. Icelandic youths have continued to do climate strikes with a call for clearer and more targeted measures. Other northern nations are much longer and spending far more of GDP in climate operations. Iceland has to take a lead with other northern nations, listen to the scientific community, and make significant investments in essential infrastructure and structure to achieve the objective of the treaty to meet the standards of the UN Commission on climate change. Such investment creates new opportunities and values for new, improved, and green economy. The proposal suggests that the General concluded that a prime minister would present proposals for a green community covenant that will take over the range of national life. In the spring of 2020, the proposal for a green community contract will be proposed by the representatives of all the political parties of the future Prime Minister, in agreement with Environment and Resource Ministers and Economic Ministers, as well as the proposal for legal adjustment. On February 1, 2021, the Committee of the Future added its proposal to the prime minister. The proposal suggests six goals we should achieve before 2030: 1st Iceland is going to be a non-carbon land, but it should be taken care of that action as a matter of payers and perimeter groups. 2. The economic future of the country will be guaranteed by sustainability as irreparable conditions. 3. There will be new economic prosperity standards, considering the need for prosperity without growth that reduces the pressure on the environment. 4. A significant investment of the necessary infrastructure and structure will be employed in order to achieve the purpose of the covenant within the appointed times, in line with the standards of the United Nations Interpretation Committee on Climate. 5. Iceland will be on the front team when it comes to fighting the climate. 6th International cooperation and technical conversation, expert assistance, goods, services, and funding will have to be enhanced and the use of carbon exchanges by other countries will be achieved. It is also stated that to complete the work at the designated time, the prime committee should be assured of funding for the future. Then the proposals will be a guide for Iceland's government to the aim of a full balance in emissions and greenhouse gas binding in all areas of society and in Iceland's international cooperation with other countries in the battle against climate. The cooperation of all areas of the community, both within the country and in the international, is what is needed and meets the seriousness of the problem. Our view is that the government and the public are united in total thinking of society's bases. It has all the areas of society underneath; the economy, food production, consumption habits, energy production, and so on. The idea of maintaining a national meeting of ◯Gian Iceland is about promoting the cohesion of society so that all of us can unite in the changes needed to make in our systems of control and economy. The international meeting that Iceland has so far had undergone great social change and has provided positive and important changes, as governments sometimes need public judgment when it comes to major, dramatic changes. However, we must not take action as long as there is a green Community Convention policy. The government's strategy on climate change needs to be extended and more ambitious goals must be set, but if it doesn't become an all - out - of - the - matter, we have to attack the system and create a social agreement about them, we have to get everybody along. Thus we can lead in climate and the role model for other countries, since the climate problem is not a problem of individual nations but a problem for all of us and we must come together as one thing to change this trend. Iceland's greenhouse gas emissions are increasing rapidly, and based on an appeal number, they are far greater than in our neighboring countries. This is a concern and development that needs to be reversed immediately in order to reduce the serious consequences of warming and creating a more sustainable society. The fact that human rights, social rights, and general well - being will not be ignored is to be taken into account when there is a market for activities to be taken into account. Wise, realistic, sustainable use of nature and resources is the basis for prosperity in the future society that we leave for our children and for our offspring. The actions and changes we make must be taken into account that rights will not be misunderstood. It must be emphasized that governments and society all work together to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We must take on fundamental changes in society to achieve our goals, our goals on non-carbonity, sustainableity, and the leadership of climate. We need to shun out - of - date ideas about economic growth systems that go into the limit of consumption. We need to put first prosperity ahead of economic growth, we need to build up needed wood that reduces pressures on the environment, and we need to reevaluate our welfare systems with the aim of ensuring all decent living conditions. The first step toward accepting a new society contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u38	A respectable president. We're discussing a proposal for a resolution of a green community contract made by Piranar and the Conspiracy. I'm all for it. It's absolutely necessary -- [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u39	Hv. Senator. The president apologizes for a mistake he was making because of it. 3.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir, had asked for an answer. It's the second time the president tries to counter her today, so it's full, but now he's giving an answer. 3.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir. The President's waiting for a good deal of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u40	Mr. President. I welcome this proposal for the conservation of a green community contract and wish the United States and the Pirates to congratulate them on bringing it together. Here are some practical suggestions and needs, to make Iceland a non-carbon country by the year 2030, an ambitious scheme. I just wanted to mention one thing I'm celebrating, too. Much emphasis is given on the future Prime Minister's Committee, which I consider to be very relevant, and it is very relevant to the future committee to discuss the climate and the challenges and challenges we face as well as to setting up new levels of prosperity in the economy in consideration and stress on the climate. I know that the 1st traveller of the Parliament smells is a very interested woman and advocate of prosperity in the economy. This, too, rhymes very well with her emphasis. I welcome vast international cooperation that must take place in order to achieve the Paris convention and the plans we have applied there. I'd love to, but I'd like to hear a little bit more about the emissions from the major industry. On page 18. 3 The Parliament's formula describes the need for significant reductions in emissions from major wastes. I'd like to hear the 1st traveling overseer relate to what she thinks this may mean, whether we just need to cut down our contracts or take on some more drastic measures when it comes to the big business. I've spoken for myself that emissions of the major industry are being taken care of to reduce emissions in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] It will be interesting to hear what a 1st transporter says about that design.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u41	President. I appreciate the answer and the question. Most of all, I'm not an expert in that field, as many people have often said, but I have quite my ideas. The focus we've put as a community in a major industry for a very long time is the result of the economic or ideism that lays the basis for our economy. This is the result of it, and it is this growth of economic growth that is an enormous source of enthusiasm in our recent decades of approach to society. This is something we need to reconsider. I think it really mattered greatly that this part is part of the job when people begin to ask them how they see our community looking and who the motivations in our economy should be in the future to meet and tackle the climate changes that we look forward to. These suggestions will continue to work with the prime committee of the future, and some legal proposals will come from that work. It is important that this is included in that work, but I think clearly that we need to look forward to the technological revolution that is taking place, that, once new companies are established and we are producing products, or services, are actually the community responsibility. I hope it wasn't too vague, I'm thinking aloud.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for the answer. I agree with it in the process of prototypes and prototypes. We need to move faster toward innovation and tomorrow's thought. I also wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, also on page. 3 of the synopsis proposal. For example, Britain and Scotland have already declared a climate emergency and realize that more countries will follow, Iceland is no exception. I agree with this, and I have both spoken about it and wrote it. I don't think we should shrink back from declaring a state of emergency, nor should we talk about it as some kind of fear that makes people afraid, but that's what makes people afraid of us. I'm glad you're here. Just below, according to one declaration, a dose is effective without policy development and list several things to change; tax systems, transport, housing, food production, and resource efficiency that need to be guided by sustainable development. I'd like to ask a 1st member of the Parliament's Directive for a change in the tax system. We know that in Iceland there are many people who have a tendency to resent any tax change and, especially, for tax reforms to be burdensome. At the same time, changes in the tax system can be very good at promoting certain behavior, so I would like to hear the ideas of the 1st transporter when the tax system changes towards sustainable development.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u43	President. I have to say that I speak for myself in this matter of change, but I don't have any complete ideas about how the tax system should change. The most important thing to me is the idea that we have this synoptic proposal is to open up our conversation and go to a very crevice goal, so that we get together as a nation and as a body of Congress on the goals that we feel are important and then go out from a bigger conversation and crosspolitic work to create a list of actions and come up with a Senate case to reach our goals. We're suggesting that we go into a comprehensive approach to the group of lawsuits and only to examine changes in ideologies and motivations in our system. In terms of some extraordinary tax changes, I don't necessarily have it figured out. I'm often considered to be a very strange measure of how I want to change the welfare and the tax system, but it doesn't necessarily mean anything, I'm willing to throw it into the discussion, but I don't feel that it's just us here to decide it. It must be part of the big context and a larger conversation about where we want to go in the future. But I appreciate it. A senator for interesting questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u44	A respectable president. As I've made my appointment before, this is a proposal for a resolution on the Green Community Convention of the United States and Pirata, which is the best, and I support her wholeheartedly. I always worry when you start talking about carbon tracks, pollution, and the issues because it's already in the process of filming tax. I fear that the tax will take the most out of the worst, because it is somehow in the way that the more tax pays in the home, the worse the situation for the worst in this society, e.g. micropunchers and low-payers. Even if we clean up our climates, they are not meant to be, nor are they to be taken into account. What is strange also in connection with us Icelanders is that we do not seem to want to learn from the mistakes of other nations. What I've often wondered about is that other countries seem to repeat the same problem. Again and again, the same problem arises in the nations, and I am there, for example. talking about what's extremely polluted and destructive, forest fires. We regularly hear of the burning of whole square miles [2 sq km], and this happens over and over again, on the same spot. No one seems to think of starting right away to make a fire belt and a gauze belt, and we don't think of it in Iceland. We're producing forests and planting only in a live order, no matter what could happen. Last summer, e.g. very dry, and we are in no way equipped to cope with forest fires. We have large and large forests at Hallorm's site and beyond, and there's nothing to worry about burning rooms, how to protect from fire, and how to turn it off. We look like we close our eyes and wait until we get wet in the well. We also see this in weather changes, and we are watching in the world that islands and rocks are simply sinking into sea, so we too are under obligation to listen to young people. We have been advised that we have become anxious. Some would like to reduce anxiety and say that this is not right and not scientific, and that it is merely a repetition of what has been before. I can't believe it. I can see it. We're experiencing it, we're seeing extremes in the weather. Because we see the consequences of global warming, we are under obligation to see to it how things work. As I say, I support this suggestion with a complete mind, and I sincerely hope that we will take our place now and listen to young people who have been standing in it right now, just recently, every Friday, pointing us to a disaster. They want us to listen and to do something. I'm impressed that we have a conference, and in this context, we have to remember to invite the young people to the table. We need young people there, too, so they can see they're doing something. I'm afraid the will isn't good enough, and then the question is, how much is it gonna cost, and then there's always a profit. Unfortunately, it has done so in the past few years, and it seems to be still being with people. I hope that we will turn around and get involved in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you to the first shipman and guide, boy. Halldóra Mogensen's contemporaneous wife, who is very interested in the content of a good speech, and I can agree very much with what she said. I just wanted to follow the Conspiracy's viewpoints, but she did all right over it. The earth's environment and human warming are better off than everyone else, and every Friday we have seen schoolchildren and young people assemble in the East and demand action, understandable. The consequences will come to them. A lot of the rest of us will be like this. leaving the scene when the worst disaster strikes. We face challenges of magnitude that enable many to give up and fear the assignment, but we are more likely to approach them so that they can lead to good things. You see, we can live a more meaningful and better life without always being driven by this manufacturing society that has shaped us. It is introduced in the proposal of prosperity. Like what? Brynjólfsdóttir This project requires great international cooperation, and we need to consider it. It is all too easy for single countries and communities to unite and point out someone else and do less. But it's just not available and it's not for the Icelanders at all, and that's why we have to take it seriously. The consequences of climate change are particularly serious to us in the Northern Hemisphere, where the temperature is increasing relatively more, both in the sea and in the land, with related consequences; melting of glaciers, ecology change, global warming, and acidification, increase in weather climatic impacts. This is happening right now at this moment. The effects of this will apparently be much worse as political people pull their feet longer. That is why we need action. So this caught my attention and disappointed me a little bit that the Environment Minister, the vice president of the United Nations Group who has called himself environmentally, has this week at the Senate said that the Icelanders were just fine, that we didn't have to comply with the United Nations Internal Affairs that a state should set at least 2.5% of GDP in climate change measures. His vision was that since we had already attacked the energy exchange, pointing them to the heating system, we are quite close to fulfilling this goal - the physician, the President, who was built in 1930. It can also be noted that while the international committee has calculated that 2.5% of the energy exchange sector has also spoken of the need for a total of about 6% in any measure of action to stem global warming, transport systems, housing, research, evolution, and education. We are simply not there, and therefore I am told if left greens are not going to set higher goals and not look at it as an opportunity to live here and create a more exciting future, green economys, green jobs, the basis for the economy. Prime Minister has talked a lot about, and I know she's an interested woman. I can't believe that they're going to live together with the Independence Party for all eternity, so they should dare and want to set goals, at least in a policy file, to have a good map in your sleeve when you have to turn another one. Mr. President. Action against climate change will affect all aspects of society in one way or another, transport, agriculture, industry, parenting issues. We need to take drastic measures, and there is a great need for strong political leadership. But most important, and that emphasis is placed on the proposal, we need to create for them as wide a solid solidarity among the people, among the people, as possible. Therefore, the United States of America and the Piranians have proposed this synopsis proposal for a green community contract. Both classes presented a similar case during the last assembly, as the original - language event came in, and we certainly hope that more groups will come with us on the bus because this case is certainly not a matter of which one category is to take possession, and that it will lead to, best if everyone is standing at the same time. The proposal's message is clear. We need to take drastic action and change to the degree necessary for everyone to reach the table, and we're going to have cross-coordinated cooperation, cooperation with experts and scientists, but especially, as I said earlier, consultation with the general public in the country, since all of us are going to be exposed to these climate change in one way or another. This arrangement opens up to such reconciliation, and it does not prevent other classes from bringing forth specific measures that can be taken right away. In fact, it is vital that all groups at the council begin to engage in such work. We need to act on great policy measures to support our future, how the future will develop. A future without fossil fuels, where our life - style, consumption, priorities, and organization are heading in an ecological direction. In other words, we need to eat less, live less, get closer to one another, and focus on green production. Mr. President. We need to take this seriously, but I don't think government policies and governments have enough evidence. Therefore, I feel that this proposal is inevitable from the government groups and that the nation is taking along this green community covenant, which embraces all the stings of national life. We also need to make sure that, in line with the emphasis of superiors and others, the memory of the poor ones does not suffer for these disturbing changes that will take place, for it is clear that they will touch them too. Then, in itself, I can enter an opposite direction. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölfjörðurdóttir. I believe that on the other hand, the tax system needs to be the means by which it promotes demand and sometimes shifts to eco-efficiency, but also by means of subsidies and other such restrictions will be brought by a general and equal tax system, where we will spread our profits, where those who, in fact, carry the smallest amount of burden while we are on the highest salary can do much more. But we need perspective, and this suggestion is primarily on this matter. We are a small nation, and we simply need all hands on deck. That's why I think it's a good idea to start this with a national meeting on green Iceland. We have an example. We have a national meeting in 2010 that discussed the value of a new constitution. This is what we all remember. Of course, it was rather sad how things turned out, but teaching everything else was not the national meeting arrangement. The meeting showed the exact value that people stressed to be honored, e.g. Nature and environment, so we have something to build on. We know so much about what the public wants. I can see why. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson has made herself ready for an answer, so I think I'll just finish this here and my pencil.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson for history, as it were, congratulates him. Halldóra Mogensen's conquistador with this synopsis proposal for a green community contract. There is much good in it about the climate. Hv. Einarsson And I'm sure I agree with him about it. He only mentioned my words earlier in this discussion about tax changes with sustainable development, and I think that I and that I do. A senator can agree that the intention of the tax system changes to attract green behavior in companies, individuals and institutions is always beneficial. I'd like to ask you something. A member of the Parliament on the emergency climate situation and the declarations there. As noted in the report, Britain and Scotland have already declared a state of emergency in climates and many other national conventions, Irish and Welsh conventions, as well as many cities and towns in Australia and beyond. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to whom he thinks he is the reason why the situation in the country seems to exist in general when it comes to declarations that there is an emergency in the climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u47	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. When it comes to the tax issues, a Christian is on the ground, not to say a word of it. But as for the emergency, I stress that such a statement is not intended to scare people. However, it is a declaration that governments will take matters seriously. Job life and the public, and everyone has to realize that they will be sighted there. This will result in changes. We'll have to take action. As to the inconsistencies of the community in general, I am not necessarily sure that it is so widespread in public. I think the public can understand this well, that young people just required it, the groups that have been exposed to climate strikes. In case of a moment. A senator is interested in my view of why the left green has not brought this up, I think it's simply because they're working in a government with a group that doesn't like it. It's like the highest. The prime minister has said that when people work together, they make compromises. As long as there is a longer compromise, the more compromises must be made. I think it's that simple. I think it's necessary, however, that we declare a crisis situation, not because we're telling people that it's up to tomorrow or the other day, but to draw a line in the sand, saying: Government emphasises for the next few years and decades will be a struggle against climate change. [[You are.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u48	Thank you. A member of the council before the answer and would like to take part in other matters presented in the Senate arrangement and the report with it. It has to do with international cooperation. paritaprevir LogiEinarsson" used to speed in his story. As noted in the Parliamentary Directive, the European Union estimates that 25% of its budget will be spent on climate issues until 2027 and has announced a European green treaty. The connection with this is that we have just returned from a great debate about the EEA Convention here at the Hall of Congress to the result of a report of the EEA's pro-employmental group. This is mentioned in the report, i.e. that part of the global equipment we have to apply to us is a ◯indicator of climate regulations at free trade, investment, defense and cooperation agreements that Iceland makes with other countries and state relationships. I'd like to hear it. A senator dwells only on those contracts to draw us closer to this and what he has in mind about Iceland's influence and emphasis. How can we cooperate with that at the Free Trade and Defense Treaty, thereby guiding the climate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u49	Mr. President. I believe we should go further into European cooperation. But I think it's important that we at least... Applying ourselves in the cooperation we are in today and have brought us great benefits. I think Iceland has a voice. In Iceland, they listen. I think it would be noted, however, if we were to take some action and take drastic measures. I also feel that at this point it is important that we cooperate with nations that have actually recognized the changes that are taking place on earth and are working more closely with them instead of looking at two - sided agreements with countries that even have leaders who reject the changes. First, natural international cooperation is much better and guarantees better rights at all levels than a two - sided deal, but it also matters. I also pointed out that now that we took lead in the Council of North Pole for the first time for the first time in a long time could not be made a joint declaration because the president of the United States did not want to have become the climate change (s) or the text of the disaster. I'm sure our brothers and friends in neighboring lands and in Europe will listen to us. We can have a voice there, much stronger than we have. To do so, however, we need to do more than talk. To do so, we too need to be encouraged by our actions and not to go out of the way that our international institutions may encourage us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u50	V.E.G. President. I'm a little late for this discussion, but I got a chance to listen to it. paritaprevir Logi, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Einarsson. There may have been something about this before I notice the 3rd party of this proposal for interpretation, and I'm trying to understand it. It doesn't help me at all. That's how the numbers sound, chief. President: There will be new levels of prosperity in the economy, in view of the need for prosperity without growth. I don't understand what this sentence means. I wondered: Should we use a measure of well - being other than childhood death or less working time, increased health systems, social security, etc.? Or who should be the new standard? It's totally incomprehensible to me. My feeling is that they're making new words for an old socialist. [[Take it up, Jess.]] I feel that this is the closest thing to me to trying to understand. But I would like to do it. A senator explained who the new scale should be and how men will measure the need for prosperity without growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u51	Mr. President. It doesn't seem to me just as well. A senator has been late in the discussion. Rather, he is fully present for the present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u52	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u53	Of course, this has been under way for quite a while, and perhaps the closest one is referring to an excellent speech. Prime Minister in special discussions about the economy. No one is talking about taking things out of the equation, such as childhood deaths and schooling. On the other hand, we can base a different measure on growth than just increase in production. It's, for example. to something called making more quality. They can be personal but also economic. I think, for example. that there are precise changes in demographics in our nation, so that when fewer hands depend on the production than before, we need to develop more valuable and quality from the product we produce. I suppose the ones most in this term, the economy, are also wondering, " What is our most effective quality? ' Tobacco, whiskey, cars? There is something that men our age have focused on over the years, but I think that dating with the children and the woman and preparing a good meal together on Saturday night can bring much more prosperity, as well as likely more, if we think things through. I think there are a lot of exciting things when it comes to ideas about the economy that New Zealand and others are working on. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u54	V.E.G. President. Of course, I'm no closer. It's okay. I didn't figure I'd get to know who the new criteria would be. Of course, we know that by increasing the production of each person, there will be more prosperity. It's our great system, it's always part of a competition. We are always increasing the value of each person, and there is no escape, since there are fewer and fewer people who do the production. There's nothing new. It's just that what we're always doing and that we've evolved for a very long time and it's really good. I can absolutely say that greater prosperity and prosperity bring greater wealth. There will be no avoiding it. We do not create any new standard that is different from that of reducing an increase in values. Therefore, I think it's nothing but fracas, meaningless, meaningless, meaningless, and meaningless, unfortunately. They don't tell me anything. I don't think they're gonna tell anyone anything. I told you before, I had this feeling that men are moving the bad ways that groups like the Conspiracy were built up in a new costume, new word. But policy will always be as bad, unfortunately, well. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, and her new words and phrases do not improve. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u55	Mr. President. These were some unexpected comments from the mouth of a senator who only announced two weeks ago a partnership with Helga Vala Helgadóttir. Senator of the United States Group. More value, more production - it must, however, be driven on other factors than so far. Air quality, e.g. not defined as a special aim in our manufacturing system until the past few years. Now it will be absolutely necessary. It will also prolong people's lives, even our two, perhaps considerably.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u56	Is that desirable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u57	I'm not so sure. A senator, but others, at least The seven billion. I don't think this is a question of phrases, I think it's much more of a manifestation of what I was talking about before what I was talking about. Riva Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, i.e. What left green people are up to in this government. They cannot even at their own national meeting bring a radical policy on these issues because they are linked with a group that prefers to bring us back to the 20th century to live more or less. That's why I reiterate what I said in the beginning, I think that's why. A senator hasn't been late for the discussion -- I don't think he's here this afternoon. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u58	Well, well, well, well, well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u59	A respectable president. Here are interesting discussions about prosperity, national income, more production, and so on. It is interesting to consider the figures in connection with, for example. the history of income, which has been published, reviews the development of the income of different groups over their lives. It has made it clear that in recent decades their income has been drawn together. It tells us that the discussion that was just here that we must always increase the cake, that more human production makes us all richer, is not true. There are several other populations that have also been linked in terms of general income development based on Article 69. Social Security Act. We need to look a little deeper within ourselves and forward. I'd like to review a chapter that didn't have time for the discussion, which is the chapter on climate change and the need for a green treaty, the technical process on global warming, by permission of the president: The impact of global warming on the balanced estimates of the United Nations is considerable; 2°C globally, but this is by no means the upper limit in the absence of response. At 2°C increase, the melting of ice cover in the polar regions is expected to result in an increase in ocean temperature to many meters, an estimated 400 million people worldwide, that many cities near the Earth's halo will be uninhabitable and that even in northern Europe, thousands of people will die of heat each summer. The average temperature decrease by 3 °C can be estimated to be one billion refugees, permanent droughts in southern Europe, and a six - fold greater area that burns in forest fires every year than today. For an increase of 4°C, a 30- to sixty-fold flood damage can be expected and a worldwide damage of six hundred pools of dollars. This is a figure that can't be placed in any context we can understand, but I try to take one city, New Orleans, 2005, in the hurricane Katrina. There were over 80% of the city, and the estimated damage is about $125 billion. It's a long way from 600 pools of dollars, because it's just one city. If we take this over the entire seaside, the sea cities, where about half of the human population lives, less than 200 miles [200 km] from the ocean, estimated to double in the coming years or decades, we may be able to get close to the 600 pools of dollars on the simple duplication. In the context, these are 15,000 billion times. which was the damage to New Orleans, over 15 times the Icelandic government's budget at one time, on one hurricane. I'll only continue with the report: ▪ It cannot be seen that climate problems can be solved and that there can be no global change in the world's economic system without impending disaster. The UN Interim Committee on Climates will be calculated to protect 2.5% of world production to climate levels per year to maintain warming less than 1.5°C.◯ This is extremely important because we are very easily heading toward an elevation of 1.5 °C. This is, in effect, inevitable under the present circumstances. The change, 1.5°C to an increase, is acceptable, but an additional increase beyond what is seen in the current models, each quality beyond that achieved by me, results in a degree of multiplication in the context of the damage. This refers to disaster and disaster, but we need to understand what that means. In the context of those who like numbers, the number is here, e.g. 600 billows. It is not to speak of disasters in such a way that mankind will be wiped out. Granted, many living things will be destroyed because they are far more local than human beings, but changes in human society will become so vast, and costs would, of course, be best if nothing had to be done. Only the example of New Orleans will show us the potential cost if this becomes more frequent. In the case of this, people may think about it that as the temperature increases and the temperature increases, it will also expand. Depending on where you're at, it's growing a lot different. There is a variable rise in the ocean, depending on where you are on the globe, but an enormous crowd, a part of human society, live on the ocean. It's very easy to see the link between them. It's very easy to see the models as they are now compared to the current trend that's just coming up. If nothing is done, this conclusion will be made. That is why it is so vital that we act now to prevent this damage. This is the future debt we're making if we don't take action. And it's a huge debt. I've been sending in questions about the estimated cost of Iceland just having to live with the international commitments we've recently made about, for example. Kyoto and the Paris Convention. It is unfortunate that to make up a government plan of action would not have that cost clear. Although it is inaccurate, it is absolutely necessary that the cost of it be predictable, which, for example, is between 5 and 20 billion per year, we have, for example. I remember hearing on the Environment and Transport Committee from visitors, that it was the Weather Service rather than the Environment Agency. Anyway, some of these agents came and introduced us to climate status in Iceland, they mentioned the amount. It referred to the cost of our international commitments, which, of course, we want to prevent by reaching our goals. In that way, we really save our debt if we do nothing. It is disappointing in the government's plan of action that although the measures that are so many are very good, they are not measured by magnitude, cost, or impact at all. I'm sure it's in the next editions. I look forward to seeing them and the sooner, the better. That is why it is of utmost importance to begin as soon as possible and to issue this synopsis and start with work immediately, making clear a message to the government from the General Assembly. The last thing I would like to mention that has been spoken only before is international cooperation. The report says, with the permission of the president: They include the implementation of climate regulations at free trade, investment, defense and cooperation agreements that Iceland makes with other countries and governments. These contracts are our best equipped to succeed in these issues because it's a global problem. If there's a country getting up, you can get them to cooperate with your business contracts and your defense agreements. If any state draws its feet, it's the cost to all the others, of course, that we want to prevent. There's some discrimination in this partnership if anyone doesn't return their share. It's like Iceland, it's true we're in a good position, but we're returning the goals that, for example, are in good shape. The Kyoto Convention has set us up. On the other hand, because we are involved with other nations in Europe, our goals are reached because the others have done better. How does it really feel to be in the position of leadership and leadership in the environment? Obviously, that's not right. The challenges are huge, the project is important, and the results are very obvious if you want to examine them carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u60	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct any changes in pharmaceutical law. I already proposed it to the 149th legislation and material shall be about allowing the Agency to provide a minimum of 1 mg. 20. the combination of medicines so that it is possible to sell certain goods in a public store. People have complained that they could, for example, has not been approached in a simple way by medicines used in the country when a pharmacy is closed, which, of course, often have limited time to pay. We know from other northern countries that these issues are far more free. Our neighbors in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway have far more freedom in drug sales than they do in Iceland. Sales of free goods were allowed in public stores in Denmark, 2001, Norway 2003, and Sweden in 2009. Solutions are medicines that can be bought today from a pharmacy without a prescription and are supplied there. It is already permitted to sell one kind of medicine at shops, nicotine medicinal products are not subject to prescriptions. The Marketing Authorisation Holder decides which medicines can be sold as a loose sale and provides this with the current authority to meet the specific conditions for use. In the bill, I suggest that free drug products will be divided into two categories, one only sold in the pharmacy and another commercially authorised drug which can be sold both in pharmacy and in general shops, such as mild painkillers and medicines for allergies, which are in the hands of the EMA to evaluate. In addition to the material in the bill, the Agency decides and published on the Agency's website which medicines can be sold on the basis of the access given to me and that those who receive them have a certain obligation to ensure that the Agency is provided with information on the amount of medicinal product sold and that consumers are provided with the necessary information. They're going to put it in pars. Then a minister will have to set a regulations to keep all of this in place and make further adjustments in the rules. This bill has the goal of simplifying the availability of the inhabitants of this country to commercial products. It is relatively simple to change it so that the Agency is authorized to provide public markets with the legal means of selling the medicinal product. I think it's an additional competition, and I'm going to bring down the price to consumers. I hope that the case will be handled well at the Council and that it will be referred to a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u61	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to correct the change of pharmaceuticals, with subsequent changes, of free sale. I have to state that I'm completely against the bill. That doesn't make any sense to me. I think it's more important to reduce and make it harder to get the painkillers listed in the bill, such as pandyol and ibuprofen. I'm speaking from my own experience, I couldn't do one last time with these drugs because my stomach's been taken out of this way by a gigantian drug-taking of the relics that it's impossible. For many of the medicines, it's not working, it's just causing damage. It would be easier for us to be looking for solutions. That's what I'm talking about. A senator doesn't agree with me when I look for solutions and look at herbal medicines? We have also heard that many are praying for some of the most analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties of the earth. Natural drugs are evaporating, and we should focus on finding them and promoting them rather than on making it easier to access the drugs I referred to that are simply harmful. I don't think there's any need for that, everyone can get into such medication. Do we not agree that everyone can get the drugs they want? I think we should reduce the dose rather than increase and make bioavailability more difficult than easier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u62	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. I just don't mind people using herbals more. I am a follower of innovation and evolution and an introduction to the fact that the greatest freedom lies in doing things as humans choose, provided it doesn't harm others. The lack of bioavailability of medicinal products may be a problem, e.g. For those of us who live in the country. I've had my own bar mitzvah party in a country where the need for allergy medicine was missing, and it would have been nice to be able to approach them somewhere for a weekend, far out in the country. I'm not going to be in a court of law to determine which medicines exactly should be included in the category of medicines authorised to be sold in public stores. Rather, it is the pharmacist's opinion that the types of drugs fall below and are suitable for them. We're gonna go for a second. Hence, a senator must simply disagree on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'll totally agree that allergy medicine is in the best shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u64	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u65	We agree on that, but I don't agree on the painkillers. I give them their potential to harm, and I know that they have caused harm. I know from my own experience that it is not good to have too well access. We're supposed to stay on pain medication and find other solutions because we know that the minor medicines will only last for a certain time, and then we need stronger medications and even stronger ones. [[Up front.]] It is a vicious cycle that many people may be in and have been in, so we should be careful. But I don't know anyone who's been hurt because of an allergy medicine so that they can be completely agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u66	V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure that we can agree on the subject of the bill because it is not listed in the bill itself which medicines are involved, but is assessed by the EMA. I suppose she would appreciate it based on all kinds of interests and on what is dangerous and what is not. But at least In Sweden, Denmark and Norway, more effective pain users can be accessed. Being able to get a weak allergy medicine may mean that people can get to Reykjavík to get to anything available, where they would simplify their life for very many.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u67	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in pharmaceuticals, which is about most of the drug uses, i.e. to be granted by special requirements and with the guidance of the National Competent Authority that commercial products will be sold in public stores. In fact, a talk presented itself. paritaprevir A little different from the ones discussed in the report, Brá Bárásdóttir's Konráðsdóttir's work, in order to form the factor she mentioned in answering the availability of medicines that are certainly worthy to try any way out. On the other hand, it is extremely difficult for me to escape drugs, no matter what names they are called, that active substances are made in mind to influence specific physical functions. There are really no medicines that cannot have significant side effects. I need to know, at least very often, with some drug- sold conduction unit, especially with respect to adverse reactions and interactions and also with regard to overdose. This is really true of all medicines listed in the bill report that include medicines such as pain killers, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, paracetamol, medicines for allergies. This is true of all of them. I understand the goal of the bill very well, to ensure access to those who may not have it to a sufficient degree now. However, this bioavailability cannot be at the expense of consumers, at the expense of safety, those who would buy them. It is not necessary to produce an excessive dose of paracetamol to cause major injury, severe liver damage, especially if you take a high dose at a time. You do not need a large dose of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as Ibufen and Diclofenac, specifically mentioned in the literature, to develop severe gastritis, even gastric bleeding, and even tightening of renal failure and heart failure symptoms, etc. These hypersensitivity medicines are most likely to cause balance, especially by interactions with other medicinal products. Now the bill's aim is to improve access. Then I wondered if there would be any need for a return on a bill such as this or on the other hand that it would be the agreement to form the possibility to make sure that the sale is performed or that it would be at least There is a potential for information or education to buy. I think it's very important, and that's the arrangement we have today at the pharmacy. Solutions products are sold at the pharmacy that provide some additional information from either pharmaceutical technique or pharmacist. But I can totally see it, and I can imagine it. Tourists have wondered that having pharmacists could be available for particularly smaller stores and smaller rural sales. That might be a little steep. But it's the human life and everything in it that some problems just need to be solved. I think, unfortunately, this bill doesn't get, at least not as it's written right now, quite around those solutions. But they may be out there. I may be getting a little closer from a different direction, but most members of the council are due to my former employment. But I've also heard those voices, as was shown in the contrary. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson, that legislation should be reinforced rather with regard to drug rights. Well, maybe I'm not quite sure of that, but there's a medical opinion that it should. I find myself to be a picture, especially because the group of clients I've been taking most of my time is exactly the most likely group that's at risk of drug side effects, although only because it's taking so many medications and so many possibilities for interaction, that loose conduct in commodities can particularly harm that group, in particular, older people. I will try as hard as I can to handle these matters with an open mind. The welfare committee. But I feel like the bill it doesn't have, so I can cut myself off. There may be a rumor that a person can see the light in it and may be able to make some changes in the bill. But I reiterate what I said before that I don't feel like it's working.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I understand his point of view. But I would point out that the bill is suggested as a law of 2,3/4. mg 24th par. The current law applies also to those who receive this checkup so that the Marketing Authorisation Holder is informed about the quantity of medicinal products sold and that the consumers are provided with the necessary information. Then there's a plan on how this is going to be done. It is a question of whether it is right to accept it on a welfare committee simply to admit conditions, it might well be a way. Or simply to make it better for the members of the committee to be delivered. However, the General agreed to the 2017 Parliament resolution on drug policy to 2022, and one of its main objectives is to ensure bioavailability of all the people of the country to the necessary medicinal products. I simply thought that this was a constant conflict with that policy and reiterates the fact that Iceland is behind a large number of European countries in terms of freedom to sell free-selling drugs in public stores. This is a good thing for me, and I sure hope it is. A senator considered making that progress on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir Conspiracydótteur for his counter-sponsore. In many other lands, these rules may be more lenient, and in fact, they are presented in the report. Me and what. Sometime, members of the Parliament have visited countries where they are. But I don't think that in itself is the most powerful argument. I don't see that even with the approval of the bill or some kind of law change, we should move closer to some other countries with regard to the use of free-selling drugs, not at all. At the Prince's Tip, I think it might be better for people, especially individuals taking many types, to consult with someone who can tell the person what is likely to happen and how, and especially for the side-and-interactions. The senator may have heard of some who do not even go to doctors, who do not attend the clinic, even for the time when they feel they need them. In that case, they may go to a store and buy some freest goods. The choice there may not always be based on what might be best for the individual. That is why the local instruction is so important. I know why. A senator must agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u70	V.E.G. President. I simply trust people. I trust people to determine for themselves if they need to go to the doctor, if they need prescribed medication, or if they can possibly make enough money to buy free medicine. I simply have a case that increases people's freedom to access it. We may not agree completely on that, me and the other. Senator. Yet, I am glad to hear that the senator understands the matter, why it is and the goal of the bill. This is the first step in deciding to just go to the green button and say, "Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u71	Mr. President. There are many things. I don't think of it as a special form of freedom - pardoning the English canon, Mr. President - having a chance to buy a free drug when you think of it. I'm naturally, as I said before, highly colored because I've seen too many side effects of all too many drugs through the ages, and so I'd rather go the way of making these rules clear. But again, when people buy these drugs, I reiterate that there is a possibility of enlightenment, further instruction, and service. Even if we had a hard time. paritaprevir Also, Brá Konsley's beloved Konráðsdóttir trusts people, we must not alter legislation or rules so that we are directly assigning people to dangers that they might not be exposed to if we did not change the rules. I'm at least. there. I think it's very important to remember that when people are possibly on four or five prescription medicines they need to take, it's a rule of thumb, at least in most patients, it is not a question of whether they have any extra or interactions but rather what additional or interactions they are. When a person in that position goes to the store and buys a sixth or seventh medicine because he has any pain or symptoms or any of that sort, it is important to choose at that time to avoid being exposed to additional and interactions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u72	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to correct the change of pharmaceuticals, with subsequent changes, of free sale. I will have to be anti-programmered, especially with analgesics and anti-inflammatory agents. I believe from experience we should have further access to these drugs. Although other countries have adopted this habit, we do not need to make the bioavailability easier. I may be able to understand that in the country it needs to be done. I have learned from experience that after I have had to take enormous amounts of drugs and drugs for the treatment of drug side effects, once such a vicious cycle has been created in people, the situation has become very serious. What should you do and think when you are in that situation? I didn't have to take medication at first. Then you take an enormous amount of medication, and afterward you are in a position to be unable to take medication because you have taken so much medicine that you cannot take it anymore. Then you have to find solutions, and I found a simple solution that applies to the best pain medication. It is a very good solution and should have been developed all over the country; it refers to many strong pain pills. It's going to cool and warm, go first to cold water, and then into hot water. This is incredibly effective and has been very effective, i.e. I'm in a cold water 45 degrees, and I'm there for two minutes, and then I'm going straight into boiling hot water. Some would call this torture, but there are different ways in which people can take cold water. But people get used to it, and I've met people who have been cured of migraines and all kinds of pain just with this. Such a simple thing can help. Instead of having to take painkillers, you can also keep freezing in the refrigerator and cool off the pain area. So there are natural solutions, and they can be developed and expressed more freely. As I said in my opponent earlier, I'd like us to do a good research on the juice. The chemicals have been removed from the oil so that it works, I've met people who use it, who say it works really well for inflammation and pain and all kinds of disorders that have been affecting people. When you read the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory and anti-rheumatic leaflets, these are synthetic drugs, you get sick when you read them. You can see how many side effects there can be. Then we should try to promote physical therapy. Medical therapy can be very effective in treating pain, and we need to build it up much more. It is better for the patient who experiences severe pain to have physical therapy rather than injecting aspirin. It is noted that the matter should be addressed to the Marketing Authorisation Holder and that the product should be determined by which medicines can be sold as a loose sale. I'm hoping that the Agency will consider the matter very carefully but will not just look blind to the northerns, allowing these anti-inflammatory drugs and other painkillers to be sold for free. I don't think it would benefit anyone, and I really hope we can agree on that. I agree that allergy medicine can be sold as a free sale. I use them too, and they haven't hurt me yet. I don't know about anyone they've hurt. I can also understand that getting on medication might be difficult in the country but I think we should solve it in a way other than increasing the bioavailability.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u73	Mr. President. I'm here to bring a bill I've asked for in 149 of Congress. Then it was not granted, and I now contribute it again with an updated report. In fact, in the past a comparable bill was presented at the 146th Parliament, then by members of the Synod of Children, which is a bill to correct the adjustment of basic school law and writing costs. With me is why. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Lilja Hyney Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóðsson, S. Brjánsson, Logi Einarsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Guðgur KristinssonIngi and Halldóra Mogensen coa. It's about the 3rd paragraph of the 1st. 31. The law will pass away. The objective of the bill is to eliminate regulations from basic school law that public authorities are not obliged to provide data for personal use, such as literature and paper. Some talk in the community about parental expense because of literature and other data because of child - school education. The welfare watch and the Children's Cooperative and Home and School have attracted the attention of the public and the government that there may be considerable amounts of money for families, and schools are asked to provide literature and paper free of charge. In the summer of 2016, the childhood formed a special collection of signatures to protest the death penalty because the organization did not agree with the United Nations Children's Convention on Free Basic Education. In a survey of Icelandic rural society at parental expense on the basis of this year's literature, 2016, lists from basic schools were surveyed in many countries on the need for research. The survey concluded that schools made very different demands on which school data should be brought to school. As a result, the cost may vary considerably between rural partners and even substantially between schools in the same rural community. These medical expenses are expected to be particularly difficult for families who have a close relationship with one another. During the fall of 2016 visit, it was encouraged that the cost of study data for a child in elementary school at that time may be in the range of 400 to22,000 k. and that this cost would, in the worst sense, put a strain on less families. In the summer of 2017, a survey conducted by the Strategic Watch Tower revealed that 17 out of 74 rural communities did not have the cost of schooling, such as literature and paper, that year, that school year, i.e. 2016◯2017, but 41 of 74 rural communities would have the goal of not having any expense participation for school during the course of 2017/2018, the last year of school. The success shift repeated the survey in the summer of 2018, showing that 66 of 72 rural communities had a policy of keeping the free data of the school year 2018,2019. Since the survey, one community has still joined them. According to a report by the Department of Traffic for 2017/2018, the survey in 2018 revealed that most rural communities have decided to eliminate the expense of primary schoolchildren from school supplies and are well - offed. However, we should keep in mind that the 2008 high school law shows that teaching in high school is free of charge in high school. It is forbidden to demand or their parents for training, services, study tools, or other material to be used in their studies. In spite of this, in recent years students have been charged with collections of material fees, and since then students have had to place in all kinds of purchases of material, as was said earlier, that could study very much or little depending on how the schools come to meet their students. It is certainly stated in the law that public authorities are not obliged to place data to students for personal use, such as literature and paper, but what personal use is not defined. Can you go to school without a pencil? Likely not, so it is of great importance. As I told you earlier, under the United Nations Children's Convention, the right to non-employable basic education is in accordance with the United Nations Children's Convention. Freedom of basic education is also one of the world's goals for the United Nations. In my opinion, there is no reason to be authorized to leave this on the elementary school law, and that is why, as I said before, the 3rd Amendment of 1 mg. 31. They'll take the elementary school away. The vast majority of the basic schoolchildren of the country are now receiving academic data free of charge, and it is therefore necessary on the basis of an equal policy that all elementary schoolchildren receive academic data free of charge. The education system is one of society's most powerful equations, and equality for education is at the same time one of the fundamental leaders to the equation of all children. When this bill was won, it included During the first visit, I received a letter from the Department of Easyrs to a local community on academic expenses and the reports of the Union's local community on the matter. Furthermore, I used information from children's field, home, and school. The contents of the bill do not give reason to believe that it conflicts with a constitution, and this leads to the keeping of the international commitments of the United Nations Children's Convention on Free Basic Education. Basic schools are being run by the local community, and in 2017 there were over 45,000 children. According to the above - mentioned survey, 67 of the 72 rural areas now have freedom of study. However, it is worth noting that not all rural communities left out in 2019,2020, elementary school. True, it is only 1% of the people living there, but it does not change that this need to be corrected in terms of equality. In view of this and that a greater proportion of the concerned rural unions have already decided to reduce the costs of college students, the overall cost of the bill is negligible for the remaining rural communities because it has often been criticized that we are laying on tax laws and regulations for our communities. As members of the General Assembly, we are required to be guided by the interests of young people in all our jobs at the council. I've said that before, including. When I was a spokesman for children at the General Assembly, my opinion is that one of our most important goals in our work, wherever we are, should be cherishing all children and young people and that they will have the opportunity to enjoy themselves in the games and jobs. Through it, we generals play an important role in the law of law, regulations, and the sharing of funds. To me, and surely to many others, children are the most important group of every community, and they will inherit the land, and to us to prepare the environment that supports their development and development, and as a nation we have committed ourselves to ensure equal opportunities for all, especially those with weak voices in the community, which means that we need to follow the United Nations Children's Covenant to which we have legalized. I believe that we senators in general do too little to discuss children and their issues in our activities at the council and whether or not we can improve the legal situation so that their interests are looked into. One of the things I've mentioned before, and I think it's worth looking at, and for us to bear in mind is that the youth's level is to be adjusted, especially that related in a direct way, such as. school language. I believe that we senators are expected to have a conversation with the Young People Ask Council and the Council for a sort of arrival. I encourage young people to take advantage of government consultations. to provide comments and comments on the subjects they are especially interested in, of course, in all matters of children and young people, but as everyone else, they may be more interested in some particular subject. It's certainly a scene, but I know it's being worked out, and it was the last winter's decision to find a flat surface on how we could make it a best place for young people to arrive. when they came to the committee. I am very happy that most rural communities offer basic schools to children in general, but I really hope that the few remaining ones are now in progress because basic education is required to be free in all respects, and this is not to be done between children by the economy. A greater equality is one of the best ways to promote prosperity and happiness in the society that all of us have to want for our offspring. School is the cornerstone of social equality. Make basic schools truly free, respecting the rights that all children have according to the United Nations Children's Covenant. Let us make sure that children are not discriminated against because of their status or that of their parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u74	Mr. President. Here's an interesting subject. First, I'd like to mention that it happens here at the General Assembly that the Council establishes laws and regulations that then throws the cost on the countryside. Second, I would like to call out if some discussion has been made about the need for study tools and who they are. The Senator said in his review that it could not be passed through school without a pencil. The results of a joint survey were being made in the fourth and seventh grade. They were taken on a iPad. No pencils. The law says, as the senator noted, that the study is free of charge, so I would like to call on whether there has been some debate over this matter as to the need for study. What are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true, as I mentioned earlier and as the senator mentioned, that the cost is being rolled over to local communities. We know that we've both worked as local leaders, and that's why I know that there are very few rural communities left when it comes to this, and that's why it's important, I think, that this is legalized to ensure equality. What are some necessary study tools? It's not really our decision to make, in my opinion. I mentioned a pencil here before and what. A senator of iPads - if there is a requirement for students to use iPads, it's not something I think parents need to provide for their children. It's a machine that costs a lot of money, and then the school will just have to make it seem that all children have access to it - which I assume they are. Of course, we have seen such devices move considerably into schools, which, fortunately, all kinds of social organizations give one year's walk, etc. These are the tools needed by the school that the child needs to be used at any given time. It must always be so that what the student needs to do in order to care for what is laid down, that is, the necessary study tools. And as I said earlier, it's different. During those years I listed, 2017 and 2018, the cost was taken from 400 k. Up to 22,000. There are very different demands, and we know that there have also been differences in the amount of material cost paid for others, e.g. Linked work articles and such. Other schools haven't charged a thing. So I think the simple answer is: Fortunately, the school is varied and teaches in different ways, but it requires some of its students, which they need to have access to. If so, it is essential to study.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u76	Mr. President. You see, we are truly living in a new time. I'd like to mean that the necessary study aid today is a iPad, and we're obviously going there. There's always someone who pays, whether it's locals, the state, society, a company, a company that gives 50 iPads at any school, etc. Although I believe that the rural community truly provides students with iPads, it is exemplary, as is the case in Kópavogur and the senior school in Skavegur, etc. ... sincetheyhavebeengood at this. But why are we at that place talking about some basic information - pencils, erasers, pencils, dicks, long bows, etc.? We've never had a discussion about food in the home study, speaking of how we're moving to having more practical and technical studies. We've never talked about the wood of the construction room as a basic tool. We need to discuss the nature of these basic study tools. It is a panel that each student has and needs. I believe that the local community should pay for this, and I'd like to say again, "Here's the lawgiver, the government, putting some laws that the rural communities will then have to take on and then pass on expenses." I completely agree with the senator that they are not to be dropped into families and homes. I agree with the senator in it. A motorcycle, therefore, can be an essential tool for learning. You, my friend, go and tear a motorcycle for three months and put it back together so that you can drive the motorcycle at the end of the school year. This may be necessary for someone to study.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u77	Mr. President. I thank the senator, but I do not agree with him that motorcycles can be necessary tools for study. On the other hand, we can face the need to resolve the issues of different people in different ways. It certainly is. But here we are speaking in general. We're talking overall, about what is necessary to study. Indeed, family study needs to be done. Just as the school needs to buy books to teach English or to teach English, this is also part of the study tools that are underneath, whether that is so. A senator mentioned, the timber of the building, or the food in the family study. We're here speaking for the overall population, and here are a few other rural societies left, as I said before, and not even all of them are going to go to school. Fortunately, rural communities have taken this into their mouths. We're just supposed to be happy with what's happened, that our communities want to live well with their young people. I agree with that with what. A senator who uses iPads to work in school is an extremely good tool, and he has spoken a lot about it. But if we are to teach in this way, it has to be the school to make sure that such expensive study tools exist. I really wish that this would work out so that they would be gone, the few students living with the inequities still having to buy and pay for extra research.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u78	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in basic school law, the cost of writing. I'm one of the carriers of this bill, but we've been discussing what should be in it. I agree with what has been presented, of course, with everything that needs to be used in elementary schools and children needing. The bill may also need provisions for all children to use tools and tools, no matter what their condition, whether they are disabled or in need of special help. We often forget that not all find it easy to go to school and take advantage of the available evidence. It's kind of strange that we have to discuss it in our time, we're in rich society that we should have arranged these matters by now, but whether it's a credit card or something else that children need they should have access to. We are also to talk about food, that no child needs to be hungry in elementary school. I don't mean to keep this far, but it really stabbed me when I started thinking about the children's access to elementary schools in the country that you see driving kids a long way to such hollow roads that there are basically holes in the holes and the lifetoons shake out of the children. It is not pleasing to see that day after day, through day, and back, children need to go through trouble to get to and out of school. We need to think about everything like this. What happens also in Grafarvogur when children are transferred from school to major traffic pressures, we must dissect and arrange for the children to go to school safely and receive all the services they need in order to thrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-23-24.u79	Mr. President. I am here following a sound proposal for action on policy plans and the future classes of high school studies in Southnes. Transporters are down. Silja Gunnarsdóttir Guðnarsdóttir, Páll Magnússon, Birgir Þórarinsson, Friðriksson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Harðardóttir G. Hardydótir, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and Smári Mccarthy. It says that the General concluded to hide an education and cultural minister ordering a team for high-school policy in Southnes. The group will be assigned to see how to increase the number of CDs in the area in the light of population growth and cultural background and to increase the availability of Bible programs, including the U.S. in the field of technology and innovation, as well as in ensuring future courses of high school in Southnes. The group also proposes that the South American High School for Increasing Opportunities and access may need to be changed by the development and cooperation of the South's rural communities. The secretary would like to introduce the results of the task force as late as June 2020. The country's growth in the past few years has been the largest in the South and far beyond the population population population in the country. They need to be taken into account when planning high school studies in the region, which includes the high percentage of shift workers. They're entering the Continental Airport. This is an opportunity to consider some aspects of changing the school system and taking into account that a basic school can therefore be conducted at 8 o'clock in the evening, but it will start later, etc. There's a lot of opportunities out there. It also says that the level of education in the territory, especially women, has increased, and that is a source of joy. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the support of high school studies in Southnes with regard to the needs of local employment, high population growth, and a wide variety of cultural background populations. Southnes High School development policies must be met and the funding of educational institutions in the area must be assured of the future. The results are as previously said to be in June 2020. It's done a very powerful educational job on Southnes. There are schools and elementary schools, Southnes University, the Central Center for Social Education in Southnes and Keilir, the centre of Science, Education and Business Life, where natural people play together the public and private elements. Especially should we consider the composition of the population in this community. What I think needs to be considered in particular from now on, and that is only included in a report, is that study material takes into account that there are a very large number of people in English as a second language, and therefore it needs to be considered to support students in a foreign language. It's suggested that the case be discussed in the General and Education Committee and I leave this in the hands of a president.
