ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer today, but the Parliament assumes, if necessary, or until the fifth session session is over. Doesn't object to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u2	A respectable president. The International Day is today. In 2015 the United Nations set out 17 world goals to end poverty, to reduce equality, to protect the earth, but these three are linked to well - being and happiness in an unbreakable bond. Happy birthday. But I'm sorry, I'm not happy at this moment. I'm sorry again and again I'm in a hurry to the present and the former governments, especially now and again, assaulting disability, sick and injured people. The camp loan fund has rejected the application of the Femes Worried House Fund for foundation donations to buy disability apartments. 600 people are on a waiting list for Brames for housing. Brynja applied for startups because of 135 apartments with the goal of increasing the number of apartments for disability. This was a 110 - two - room apartment, 24 - room apartments, and one - room apartment. V.E.G. However, on December 5 of this year, the social and juvenile minister of Ásmundur Daðason changed the Regulation for the establishment of the Agency. It tells us that at least 2/3 parts of the budget should be entered into apartments intended for income and property owners in the labour market. It is not to end poverty, to minimize the inequities of equality, as the United Nations says today. No, the message from this government is clear. If the desperate do not agree to their professional assessment, they will not get more apartments, nor will they correct their pension back to the time that everyone else has received, nor will they get a dime away. We continue to impair special property savings, death rates, mother and father's pay, physical benefits, pension pay for continued severe poverty. Trust is gone, disability does not trust the current government. Are you so surprised that on this international day of happiness, we cripples are not going to burst out of happiness?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u3	A respectable president. In recent days, the European Court of Human Rights has often been referred to as some kind of milestone or similar. In the 9th. These minor views are listed as one of seven reasons why the smaller things were right, but as you can clearly see at that point, they do not have an opinion. The first point is that a minister had the right to change the list of emissary committees. Yes, but that depends on many conditions. The matter needs to be reasoned, that's the second point. The minister reasoned. Yeah, but it doesn't make any sense. It was obvious that a judge's experience did not fit in. Judges fell out, while others came in instead. The more experienced judges who were down on the list, they couldn't get in. That didn't work out. The General has agreed to the Minister's motion is the next dot. It does not whitewash the Minister of duty or excuse the secretary's secret of information. The next point is that everything a minister did, the vote at the council, and the whole process was done in a public and transparent way, since it was very controversial in Iceland at that time. Yes, except what a minister of the council kept information to the council. The next point is that the president signed the list. Again I say, the information was held from the council, and the information the president received from the council that it was okay to choose the whole list at once was not correct and not according to the advice given to the President of the Generals before it was decided to select the list in one piece. The order of the judge was generally in accordance with official regulations according to Iceland's Supreme Court. No, under the Supreme Court itself, it wasn't. That was a violation of the project. Finally, all applicants discussed are said to be suitable. Yes, that's right, but, no, they weren't the best. Each of the points on which this insignificance is based is easily understood from the information we have and have received. [[The president calls.]] We were classified, the process was broken. This reflects all the arguments of the minority opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u4	A respectable president. We are living in a time of divisions, a time of isolation and nationalism that robs headlines. On both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, populism has survived as a winner, and people now live with the consequences, politicians who spoke in reality that others had overlooked, the reality of the dissident public, who felt that it was excluded and had lost sight of the benefits of cooperation and harmony. The result is a breakdown that is not yet at the end, but we know exactly where it leads us. Its monuments are seen throughout the continents, the history of the divided and isolated Europe. We even built museums in concentration camps rather than tear them down, so we would certainly never forget the rocky paths of the past. Yet nationalism abounds. Yet, the kingdom continues to be isolated. And Iceland isn't divorced. On the other hand, peaceful protests were held for several days, but instead of the members of Congress discussing the requirement for themselves materially, strange questions were raised about whether Protestants could use church dress or not. The members of the council are to know better than to settle the rights of the Constitution, depending on whether they have compassion for the cause or not. The right to protest does not depend on whether we like the cause. The right to protest stands and falls by democracy itself. There are many social problems that the council needs to address and discuss entirely; matters that desperate, elderly, and also refugees. We can discuss all these matters, and we should. However, we should not put people against one another, as has become the custom, for this is a divisive attitude. If history teaches us anything, no one will make money on it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u5	Mr. President. I'd like to open up the window on a little mystery and remind you that one third of the earth is land, and 37% of this country is new for food production right now. This has led to enormous environmental impacts, deforestation, and extinction of organisms. We know that. Food production needs to be increased by 50,480 percent if mankind reaches a peak that is believed to be at some site near 91⁄210 billion people. Is that not our future scene in this vision? That's exactly what I think. Then I'm appealing to industry and other agriculture in Iceland, fish farming and fishing, and the treatment of these foods, and then an eco-friendly export on the basis of a major food industry, which I call it. Of course, it has to be sustainable, everybody knows. There are boundaries of land and society that need respect. But this, I think, is why we want to have a variety of sustainable employment policies here in Iceland. We're talking about high-tech and knowledge industry. We are talking about the energy - consuming industry that will not disappear from here in the next few years, perhaps decades. We're talking about food production, which I believe should carry the heat and weight of the increase as well as travel services, even health care, which are common. based on climatic and rehabilitation services. We have a very powerful health system that, if successful, can expand the number of people there, serving more than we can. We need to shape future employment policy as first on a similar basis as I have outlined here and not hesitate to start that discussion right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u6	A respectable president. During the last days and weeks, we have not missed the fact that lovers of refuge have stood before peaceful, peaceful use of probes, protests here outside our workplace. Now, you would have thought that the general council members were very good at it, even better, than most, about the democratic system we live in Iceland that they would not give it up here in the public hall yesterday that it would be in some way not acceptable to take advantage of the democratic and constitutiond protests that have done so well in the last days and weeks. Like what? paritaprevir Sigríður María Egilsdóttir's arrival in the past has been the most talk about the protests themselves, what they have done, and not to mention the requirements of the protests. Therefore, I would like to use the short time left to review, of course, and the righteous demands of which the inmates and refugees of Iceland do. This is the way to start the art of force: ▪ This is like a prison, someone is picked up by the police to be checked out. 1st No more dismissals. In 2018, 160 were protected by 790 applying for them. 594 was prescribed, more than 11 persons a week. No official figures have been published 2019, but according to the people who live on Ásb bridge, closed - up camps near Cheflavík, police come almost every night to extract one or more individuals. 2. Material treatment for everyone. Down with the Order of Dublin. National authorities must examine the matters of the trustees who come here to the full before the decision is made. Never disfellowshipped persons, especially without physical intervention, should be disfellowshipped. 3. Permission to work and secure. In order to be allowed temporary employment permit during the trial, a person must demonstrate a rent contract, a contract of employment and health insurance, all without having a social security number. [[The president calls.]] Individuals are required to move out of their facilities, regardless of their family standards and employment percentages, as soon as they receive an interim identification number. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 4. Equal access to health care. Without a social security number, it is often difficult, even impossible, to obtain appropriate health care. There are many accounts of neglect.How many? [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. Honorable President. I'm gonna finish this: -...five-point-five. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. A refugee camp on Ásbourn laid down. On Ásbourn, there are closed refugee camps where about 100 refugees are saved. [[The president calls.]] Safety guards are entering 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u7	The president asks why. Councilmen do not overexpect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u8	A respectable president. In unsupervised inquiries last night. paritaprevir Guðmundur Imur Kristinsson raised questions to prime minister and started his speech with these words, I quote him: A wonderful president. A crown against a dollar's shortage of microfowl is financial violence... And later he says: We can do the best we can. ▪ Will the question be answered by the prime minister when this illegal economic violence will be no more? We're gonna go for a second. A senator is in a group of consultations on the changing social security forwarding systems. December 13th. was presented in the Committee to solve her case and to complete her work. I'm going to quote the book right here with: The 2019 budget is 2,900 million. K. Add to the case under discussion. The body feels very important that these funds will be well spent and that decisions about their arrangements will be made in mind that they support the new social security implementation system for people with impaired skills. In view of the above, the conference team wants to direct it to Iceland's government that in the year 2019 it will be called in favor of a cutback on social assistance, benefits. - Off. It is expected that in a modified forward system, this improvement category will be completely removed and combined with other reform groups, as was done in the early 2017 case of sensibilities. The first step in that direction would be to suggest a change in that, instead of aiming in the amount of supplementation to 100% of the money paid pensioners will be compared to 50% of their income... and 65% of the income of the pensioners who live alone... --◯ It's the least possible way to say that there's a problem. A senator who calls this economic violence rejected this proposal, and the chairman of Iceland's Microcollar Association also rejected this proposal. Even now, from January 1, we could have begun to cut off a dollar and were well off because that action cost 1.4 billion. [[The president calls.]] I draw attention to the fact that at the same time as the Quantum Community is going to sue the State because of this dreary decline, the Qualteric Community rejected this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u9	Mr. President. I'm going to make my publicity today as a medical unit, in general, and especially in the Southland. Southland Health Center is located in Selephoss. The five active bases cover vast areas of about 30,000 km2 and range from Hellishra in the west to the Hornfjords in the east. The Agency has over ten ambulances located at Selephoss, in the City of Rangers, in Viking, Kurdor, and in the Western Islands. In addition to the inhabitants of South Europe, tourism has increased throughout the South, as well as large summer homes in the region. In the past five years, the number of patients in the area has increased by 40%. During 2018, Southland medical patients went to almost 4,100 medical transport, including 1,714 priority calls. Recently, savings were decided on the basis of changes in the way a 24 - hour shift turned into the rear shifts of hospital transporters during the night at the Cradle Summit. There is also a 24 - hour shift at Hvolsfield, a huge support for the work post east of the Puppy Stadium, where many serious accidents have been recently reported. It is also true that no medical vehicle in the first emergency line of South England's Health Organization is driven to some 200 miles [200 km]. Some cars are driving at a hundred thousand miles [400,000 km], so the situation has become the least serious. Mr. President. In this light it is serious that there has still been a post for planned purchases on medical vehicles. A delay was required to be on February 7th, which was delayed to March 13. So it has been postponed until the fall. Mr. President. I feel that there is a great need for our support of health care centers in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u10	President. I've asked a justice minister about children who have been expelled from the country to understand in what respect the National Institute for Foreign Affairs, the person who can call for excommunication from children or their parents, follows the United Nations Children's Convention on Children's Rights. In 1st. Section 3. it states that the best interests of a child should always be the top priority when local, civil, governmental, or legal institutions take action that concerns children. These are steps that concern children. So I ask: How many children have had to leave Iceland because they or their parents have been deported from the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, March 13, 2013? Second, I ask, " How was each deportation for himself justified, according to the rule of 1st? ' Section 3. The contract that speaks of best for a child should always take priority when it includes Governments, in this case Foreign Institute, make arrangements for children? Third, I ask: What information has the government or their agencies gotten about their children's survival to determine if disfellowshipping has been in the best interests of the child? As I've studied this through the child's rights, I'm better able to see a court of law, including in their sentences, not to the fact that a case has been taken on the basis of looking at the child's rights; not in courting that a foreign agency should make decisions that must be sure of the child's rights, that it was for the child's best benefit that his parents were expelled from the country and therefore the child must follow along, i.e. that it was for the best of the child. When I began to study this, I saw that it is often so that the countries that children came with their parents to appreciate it that it was not for the best of the child. [[The president calls.]] I want support for how that was logical and what happened to the children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u11	A respectable president. It often seems that the world's problems are so vast and insurmountable that we as individuals do not matter. The climate problem, however, is not that. You see, that's where we all matter. Whether parking and taking a bus in gray days when hover pollution is above health limits, sorting garbage, changing clothing patterns, considering that carbon footwear is food, or reducing plastic use, all of this is important. However, the responsibility is not for all individuals. It's also with us governments, institutions, rurals and companies. Parts of the Kingdom News on the status of climate and young people around the world are what make the role models of Swedish Greta Thunberg a great deal of life under a discussion of climate change. In fact, the environment, especially the climate problem, is very important to people, and, of course, should be welcomed. You see, we don't change anything if we just throw the problems under a blanket. This knows our young people who gather here every week and call us governments responsible. Understandably, when all the facts of the climate problem are presented at one time, people will be filled with climate anxiety. There's only one thing to do, and that's to take action. This must be done, and we can do what is at the council by being always guided by the environment in all our work here. I have tried to do so, and I will continue to develop and challenge all members of Congress to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u12	President. Once it was accepted that when the Soviet Union wanted to take China, they were taken into Albania. Here we have seen the last few days of the camp on the Eastfield, where people, a group of people in the community who are very dedicated, take advantage of their right to protest. A lot of people seem to have been embarrassed by the alleged temporary messes associated with them. It's even been heard here in this room. I encourage those who thus speak to examine themselves and ask themselves what they really mean. Are they baiting into sidewalk cleaning and treatment of lawn grass? Or do they really feel that those seeking refuge should shut up and wait to be deported? Are these concerns about corruption? Or are there fears, feelings of inadequacy, suspicion? The right to protest, to demand a better life, better equipped to be all of us at the high council and in these halls is more sacred than most others. I've wondered, as I've been observing the discussion whether some of those who have had the highest regard for the alleged corruption and other things in this regard are more concerned with the respect of lifeless statues than are living people. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of the environment and, more importantly, the importance of employment in the climate crisis and the threat it poses. One of the most important functions of the government is to create an environment in which freedom and variety benefit society in general. One of the major subjects in this book is creating a setting that enables the economy to be a more powerful part of the battle against climate change. Business and environmental conflicts are not laws of nature. It's a man-made, home-made problem that is our responsibility to solve. Governments can, for example, act by promoting green inducers, ensuring that emissions are in accordance with strict requirements and create an environment which enables companies to take the environmental reasons for production and supplying products and services into the picture. The best way to reduce pollution is to make sure that those making it pay the cost. It is also important that governments and professional life come together to promote a general sense of awareness. We know that new and challenging solutions are often solved by new solutions, and those solutions are much more likely to develop in cooperation with government and employment, where innovation and products are more likely to be effective than commands and bans. Sports, competition, and innovation are factors that are to exist in every business and now more than ever before. The innovations in the climate field may, for example, be expected to occur. the ability to find some unknown means to reduce emissions or capture carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Governments are to create a foundation, a good environment for innovation in this area. The government has made its point in these matters. The consumers are waking up to their senses, but we're not going on unless we're in business, and I actually believe that they're very good at dragging the wagon here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u14	A respectable president. Now it is during the day when many people warned about the last autumn. The company with which the Roadmaker made a deal for the expansion of the Landing Islands is not able to handle the project properly. In the fall, oral and written, the man and many more, including the West Coast authorities, pointed out to it by means of a new road manager that two important neglects had been on the assignment of the project. First of all, the price was set down by 65% in the assessment of proposals but the technical factor 35%. In other words, the price was more than technical, so it is possible for the person to carry out the task. Second, there was no divorce of efficiency at the tenders, i.e. how much timed recovery could be achieved in a diffusion of time units. It could take a week or six weeks for opening of the dock, depending on what was right for the contractor or what device he had at the moment. That's exactly what's happening right now. Now, there has been a ten - day water depth in the land of the country under excellent conditions but still does not see the end of the port opening. Excerpts claim that the company responsible for the expansion over the past three years had long since opened the harbor, using a waterway five times greater than the current ship. Thus, it might be likened to digging a ditch with a teaspoon rather than a trench. I challenge the development of the road and transport authorities to make the contractor's claim that he will get his own equipment to work. Otherwise, the contract will be canceled and reassigned. This won't do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u15	Mr. President. The Nite Owl website can now read the following, with the permission of the president: Since then, members have consulted the consumers Association because of their loan's conditions change, but creditors have contacted the borrower to increase variable interest rates in unscrupulous loans. In other words, banks are proclaiming growth increases. Then let's think about what this government, under the leadership of the left greener, has done for the banks. The banks were asking that the bank tax be reduced. You're welcome, the government said. The banks were asking for a reduction in the surveillance fee for the FEC. You're welcome, the government said. The banks wanted insurance deposit to be dropped. You're welcome, the government said. Mr. President. It is a special interest in this government to turn down curses on the banks. For that, you can't argue. V.E.G. The secretary of finance recently spoke for yet another reduction in the banks, with the permission of a president: ▪ Here is a way to reduce the tax, which may result in a decrease in growth difference. It is very important that this happens and that people be social gatherings for themselves on that subject. How much are the banks for their own parties? They reduce their interest as high as they can. Secretary of finance said they would do so? No, of course not. They're raising the interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u16	A respectable president. Our pensions are important to us, especially when we are older. As soon as we're going to play a major role, there are various views and views on social security and pensions. That's what we need to discuss. to settle here at the council. Many pensioners disagree with what they have in the past, believing that pension funds would save them from long - term museums for decades. I'm here today to mention just one of the tiny smells of complex factors in this relationship, which is education and information to funds for the use of rights. Timings may make a difference, and a number of funds have woke up to a difficult dream, missing the train. You see, the issue concerns the division of pensions between husband and wife. This exchange of rights must be formalized by a contract with a pension fund and can be a great deal, but it does not happen automatically. You see, we still live in an unsettled state of rights. I have had an example of having discussions between married couples, agreeing, not doing anything, and passing out. This must be done by proben at the latest of 64 years and by 65 years of age. After that, nothing will be changed, it's too late. This may be a major interest in the survival of a surviving mate and affect many in society, the crucial year before we reach 65. A respectable president. Millions of people admire the Beatles'music. It is a worthy birthday present for family friends to provide them with their legal collection. There should be a duck in every home. There you can find countless songs worth placing on the tip of a machine when it falls to this age or at any age. That's what counts when we're 64 years old, with president's permission, I'm sixty fer to the court, should, e.g. To be kind to those of this age, a sound song of joy and a reminder to pay close attention and timely attention to their pension rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u17	A respectable president. I take it quietly to draw attention to the fact that there are two administrative points, countries and rural areas in this country. The switch between these two administrative ladders is quite clear and laid down in the laws set in the high General Assembly. It is important that the management level be respected for the other and that relationships between them are balanced. Reports that contributions to the County Association Fund will be frozen for the next two years, thereby reducing by about Nonetheless, 2.8 billion were naturally surprised, since these contributions are bound to songs that are a percentage of the income of government funds and that are not so simple to freeze the enterprise as reported. The county regime with the European Union in the lead has also responded by signaling that we will not be entertained. In part, the minister of finance has reassigned the plans, stating that there is a suggestion for a discussion. I'd like to underline that negotiation requires that both administration levels be available on an equal scale. The government's representatives need to put together a government budget, but they must not forget that the government's income comes largely through the rural communities, which also provide close service to the inhabitants of the country. In addition to this unexpected shipment from the Board of Directorates, the rural communities are looking forward to recovery failures in seawater and lobster fishing, slaving in tourism, labour market conflicts with strikes, and other factors. Therefore, I would like to emphasize that mutual respect and conversation are the basis for the state, by both administrations, to work together as a means of economic management of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u18	V.E.G. President. I'm going to explain to you the change in the emphasis the committee suggests we agree. The bill contains a detailed definition of the literature of those who provide Iceland's National Publications Index with access to data needed in decision-making. The clear principle in the law is to seek a fixable real estate, but the committee believes that a national record has access to adequate information, which is not the norm, in order to meet its obligation to establish and carry out real estate assessments and to rely on the legal basis for access to data so that marketed real estates can be calculated and the right pressures of public pay and other taxes. Similarly, the Commission emphasizes that a review that has been under way on the rule of the work will be conducted and in full consultation with the strategists and with the change we make here is a further separation and an emphasis on the full safety and average scale.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u19	V.E.G. President. I see that the revised proposal as a member of the General and Education Committee, however it is the opinion of the Committee that decisions on income prices may lead to an increase in the tax rates for the job life far beyond the prices of change or may lead to the cross-interacting increase in real estate costs and rent prices. This I think it is necessary to know before the bill reaches final payment, and a difference in the field is asked for these factors, especially if the change will lead to an increase in rent prices, to be evaluated between 2 and 3. So I suggest that the case be referred back to what? General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u20	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here and celebrate the success of this case. This is an act of justice for people with hearing impairment, making sure that people who are in court and need to be made up of reports and that others will be interpreted only in accordance with the United Nations covenant. However, I realized in the discussion that I would have wanted to see that it would also be done in preparing a case, i.e. before people enter the court. However, there was a common conclusion in the committee view that this was a different matter. I don't necessarily agree, but I support this case because that's a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u21	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the opinion of the management and monitoring committee on the state-research report on Fishing House surveillance. By letter, by day. On December 21, 2018, the President of the Generals sent a report to the National Reconnaissance on Fishing Office surveillance for the Management Board and Control Committee. The committee was contacted by a government accountant, along with the staff of the National Reexamination, a representative of the Department of Employment and Development, and a representative of the Fish Room. A member of the Management Board assesses the implementation of weight gains in different ports and not always in accordance with the laws and administration instructions. The weight management centre is generally limited and inexplicable and has provided substantial variation in the registry. A government accountant doubts that it will produce the desired results and will have to be considered to correct this and ensure effective and effective monitoring of the scale and the registration of marine forces. The control of an attack is also extremely limited, weak, and unremarkable. In view of the number of Icelandic ships and fishing boats, this is a number of problems. They'll take serious concerns and signs of a evaporation. In addition, the actual success results of monitoring are kept in the dark. There are no clear conclusions of success or success. The management of individual or linked bodies over requisitions is primarily based on the announcements made by the curative authorities. A fishing lab is conducted twice a year, but according to the report, a government accountant cannot see that Fishing Office is systematically aware of the control of linked groups over financial sectors. However, on rare occasions, the Agency is under attack in special originals when it is suspected that a license limit has been exceeded. Other than that, the Fishing Room trusts almost entirely in the announcemental labor departments. According to a government accountant's opinion, the control of fish industry by weighting, deportation, and the integration of markets does not provide adequate support to the aims of fish control and to correct marine crops. The surveillance process is essentially difficult to carry out and will lead to activities with great interests involved. A National Researcher points out that the directors of the Fish Lab believe that the Agency is and has been subdiposed by the number and scope of monitoring projects. There is no way to take care of all the supervision she should take into account, including for lack of resources and penalties. In addition, the Agency believes that the Agency will need to review laws on the management of fish fishing through a maximum resources share. According to a government accountant, there are a number of improvements that must be made so that the Fishing Room can monitor effective and effective measures. The aims of monitoring, of what to submit, and what steps must be made to achieve success targets, such as increasing the number of surveillance workers, have to be clearly defined. Otherwise, monitoring of the use of marine resources and the compression of resources will continue to be weak, inefficient, and not consistent with the criteria and decisions of the General Assembly. On the basis of the above, a national accountant presents eleven recommendations for improvement in four categories. These are general monitoring of the implementation of law, weight monitoring, elimination monitoring, and control of the compression of Preservation. A management and monitoring committee received feedback from the Department of Employment and Development, on the other hand, and I'm going to go over it a little bit. The Ministry, in general, agrees with the results of a government accountant, but it says that it may be bibid for effective monitoring. However, criteria can be set for monitoring, monitoring and monitoring status. But well - organized, high - risk surveillance has its greatest results. The Ministry intends to review the tips and suggestions of a government accountant with a Fish Lab and to look for ways to strengthen the surveillance. Possible changes in law, change in practices, priorities, and success criteria will be considered. This was shown at a meeting of the management and monitoring committee. The Council intends to establish a weight-separation directive in which the requirements for equipment and practices are defined. It also intends to investigate the implementation of the charges of weight gain in the law and the duties of the dock authorities accordingly. In this case, there is an examination to make electronic check and direct contact to the FA database on conditions for rewlaning. Regarding the elimination procedure, the Ministry agrees with the importance of preventing an outcast. However, monitoring is difficult. An electronic check may be considered, but more work needs to be done. In order to monitor the integration of resources, the Ministry is aware of a problem that the Fishing Office believes is in the application process, but it does not seem to be a barrier to regular monitoring. The Ministry intends to examine the implementation and implementation of the follow-up of the Agency, see if there is any reason to change the fish management law to explain who are linked and what is real authority. Then the Ministry will take all the guidelines and suggestions offered by a state accountant to give careful consideration and will work on the needed and possible improvements. A fish lab agrees with a government accountant to support the monitoring of fish control laws. Necessary resources and resources must be assured, increasing the number of hunters, and reevaluating the process. The fish lab supports the sentence of a clear range of weigh positions on the port range and the weight monitoring. The Agency also recommends bringing weight to the Agency's waterfront for management. A fishing lab calls attention to the cooperation statement made by Fish Lab and Iceland's Reconnaissance on the implementation of G-texting and monitoring for limited surveillance. In addition, more human resources need to be reviewed forecasts and home and retranslation arrangements. Encourages the Fish Room to be granted access to electronic cameras. There's a support for the Fishing Room to investigate the increase in cooperation between the Agency and Iceland's National Protection Agency. The Agency rejoices, then, because a government accountant encourages the use of lightboats for the control of an outcast. Finally, the Fishing Room believes that a review of paragraphs 13 and 14. the management of fishing so that they serve their purpose, but the Agency has called on it for years. A regular and targeted assessment of the authority of linked parties is required. To achieve this, you need to have a comprehensive knowledge of the latest information on direct and indirect relationships. According to the Fish Room, more clear legislation is needed to respond to compression or even to prevent it. Additional staff should also be hired or provided sufficient funds to obtain necessary specialization. In the management and monitoring committee coverage. The commission says that fishing is one of the most important and lucrative commercial roads in the country. Governments of the public interest are expected to monitor the flow and use of the marine resource as a trust and loyalty to sustainable and responsible fishing. Based on the aims of a fishing policy and the fixture of marine crops, it is important that marine resources be accurately weighed and followed by the removal of subpowers or less priced species. Information on the fishery and landy resources must be correctly recorded so that decisions on the responsible and sustainable use of the resource at a time and the source of the Marine Research Institute on major marine crops are not based on the wrong basis. The Commission reports that fishing clinic surveillance is an important part of the implementation of government policy on sustainable and responsible fishing. Thus, it must be reliable, efficient, and beneficial. Laws and rules need to be dealt with, with strength and protection. Flares, incorrect repercussion, and inhalation are among the most serious offenses against the fishing law. Such violations are in place of economic and environmental violations, which are the opposite of the responsible use of the marine resource. According to a report published by the National Review Office, there are many lacks of supervision. The monitoring factors considered to be undetectable and debilitated. In response to the report, a Fish Room will take over a meal, and a fishing company manager has declared that there is a great lack of adequate control of the Agency. The Commission describes their concern that there is insufficient control of the use of the marine resource. A government accountant believes that the need to take sides is to decide whether there is a basis for increasing the number of surveillance workers. In view of the number of ships that are allowed to keep out on each ship, the committee specifically discussed this and feels that it is impossible to keep an eye on each ship. There is often the problem of violations where the alleged offense is requested at sea. According to the Committee, there is a need to strengthen the monitoring of Fish Room. However, the committee considers a higher possibility than increasing the number of surveillance workers. For example, the use of electronic surveillance should be considered by the economic and innovation Department and the Fish Bureau. It was noted to the Committee that such supervision is widely used, e.g. in Denmark, where it has been successfully used. The Commission also gives the opinion that the use of telecommunications for the use of telecommunications and the use of telecommunications, some kind of shrinkage, in their surveillance activities. Then the Committee encourages increased cooperation between the Fish Room and Iceland's Motion Guard. Sister offices in other parts of the North countries have been very effective in their work on such surveillance. The report and at a meeting of the Committee to act on the order of a meeting group - I understand that a minister will introduce it below, so I'm not going to put any further words into it. It is noteworthy that the report shows that the number of hours of work performed in vibrating Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) monitoring during a certain period of time has not been available for the review of the National Review Centres. The committee also discussed anti - fish management laws and laws on the association of marine crops. In the opinion of the Committee, the wood law must be tightened so that it is at the same time a source of relief and protection. It was noted to the Committee that it was relatively easy to minimize the impact of various weather laws, e.g. in the case of a loss of a fishing license. Therefore, direct the Commission to the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation to keep this in mind of a reexamination of the fishing industry. A State Reviewer also stated the importance of reviewing regulations 13 and 14. the management of fishing so that they serve their purpose, i.e. About a person-in-law. The Commission and the Commission take their minds into account the National Reexamination assessment and also direct it to the Department of Employment and Development to specifically investigate this. The report discusses monitoring of marine levels homemaking. A home-grunt includes an exception to the principle that all efforts should be made to seaports. In the joint declaration of the European Fish Office and the National Reconnaissance Association, on the implementation of GDP, the members agree to encourage the change in rules and to believe that this need to be investigated specifically and encourages the Ministry to do so. There are other things that you can see in this article, but I can see that time is running away from us, so I just need to tip over the results... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u22	The president asks for respect, but time is not quite over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u23	What a pleasure that is!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u24	Time has been set up again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u25	It was unusually quick to pass. Nevertheless, in order to shorten my case, I intend to review the main findings of the Commission and the Commission based on what has been traced here and on the basis of the opinion that the Senate can well read. This is where these factors were most pronounced: The Commission is concerned about the lack of control over the use of marine resources. The Commission encourages the Department of Professional Road and Development and Fish Office to look at more efficient and more efficient solutions for monitoring. It also encourages the Ministry of Business and Development and Fish Office to better ensure cooperation and consultation, as well as to encourage the Ministry of Employment and Development to attack the review of 13 and 14th chapters. the management of linked fish management and compression should prevent compression. The Commission suggests more cooperation between the Fish Room and Iceland's National Relations, focusing on a strict and clear list of information on the scope of the monitoring process, but as noted earlier, it has been semi-barred and could not be provided to the Committee and State accountant with information on the scope of their tasks. The Commission, therefore, aims at the Department of Professional Road and Development in the review of the fish traders to consider extending wood such as subsidies and protection, as previously noted. The committee also points to the Ministry for 1 mg. 13th par. Act on Iceland's Council of Governments, on a lower set of the government, and, cr. 2 mg. 13th par. the same law, for independent governments, but it is discussed in a committee article relating to the Regulation's sentences. The Commission believes that a minister is not permitted to hand over a decision-making agency for the Agency's organization, i.e. Fishroom, complete with a fishing lab manager. The committee gives the impression that such a warrant is legal rather than a minister of his own must recommend the key elements in the operations of Fishing Labs in a Regulation, as it may be followed by a Fishing Room. Keeping these matters in order is a matter of order. The management and monitoring committee, therefore, also aims to make sure that the rules and requirements are strictly clear to the sector and to what should be followed. Under the heading all members of the management and monitoring committee, i.e. The one standing here. The members of Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Brabbur Níelsson's Steindór, Valdimarsson Páldor Valmarsson, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason, Þorsteinn the son of Sæmundsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eliil.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u26	A respectable president. The very nature of this case, as discussed here, was well explained in the prehistoric debate of the Directorate-County Board and Control Committee. This is reflected in the opinion expressed by the committee as to the key points of the review that can be found in a report by the State Review Committee. On this occasion, I would like to thank both the Board of Directors and the Commission and the European Parliament's Employment Committee for the work in this opinion and the review of the Committee. The key point is that Government Research believes that there are some improvements needed to be made so that a Fishing Room can handle its legal resources so that it can do its work effectively and effectively. Like what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned earlier, I have arranged a five - man assignment on this matter under the direction of Sigurður Þórðarson, a former government accountant, to review the indications presented in the report and to shape suggestions according to better - to - date incidents. With Sigurður, son of Þórðarson, there will be four others on the project. There are Brynhildur Benediktsdóttir, Elliði Vignisson, Attorney Hulda Árnadóttir, and Judge Harðardóttir G. A General Hardydótir. To support the work of this committee, which is supposed to carry the heat and weight of the development process, I have also called for a number of people who are associated with this project in one way or another, about 13, as well as those whom I have called after the motion of all council members at the General Assembly. The main strategists in the project to make up this 21 person project management, in effect, are the Fég of ship managers, the Fégage of motorists and metal technicians, Fish Service, Iceland's Habitat Association, Marine Research Agency, Landland Security, Small-boaters Association, Maize, Food Institute, The Association of Fishing Manufacturers and Artists, Marine Association, European Association of the Sports and the Iceland's Marine Union. In addition, representatives of all councils, as I mentioned earlier, come to this work. Between the meetings of this large group of consultations, the five men assigned to me will work out what is stated there. We are in the early stages of this matter, starting to work out how we are going to deal with the challenges of the report. The weight of the vehicle is a plan. I have stressed in a letter to the Management Board that there will be an opinion and an evaluation of some subjects that I will be able to handle here and make suggestions for repairing work and management as necessary. First of all, the cooperation and development of Fish Labs and other public bodies that monitor fishing must be considered. Second, a review of the practices and methods of Fishing Office should be carried out on risk assessment, as well as the management of priorities in regard to marine resources and emissions, much of which is mentioned in the report. We need to consider, as was well explained in the introduction, whether new technologies can be used to monitor fish fishing, such as camera monitoring or telecommunications. Similarly, we need to work at comparing the surveillance of foreign ships into our jurisdiction with the supervision that our ships receive in the jurisdiction of other countries, including national telecommunications in Icelandic economic law. Similarly, we need to consider whether laws and regulations are acceptable to us. At the same time, monitoring of the implementation of legislation on the authority of lawgivers, individuals and other individual bodies over the maximum share departments, whether they are adequate, i.e. ... witha perfect 13th and a 14th. ... ashas been traced here. At the same time, we need to be on the watch regarding the changes and attitudes that are at the top of other nations regarding fishing control. We know that in some parts of the world, this is being done very well, while others have rather gone through with it. I would also like to mention that in the description I am here going to a few quick scripts, we need to look at tips directly on the projects under the Ministry itself, and face the administration and monitoring of the Ministry with this subsystem. This is reflected in the review of the Commission and the review of the main elements in this programme, on the management rights process, as well as on the role of the Agency. This is both what needs to go directly into, away from the Fishing Control. This is primarily a matter of the administrations of the Ministry and that process. I suppose, Mr. President, this work will be completed in the autumn months in the form of the project to the Ministry or to a report. I have no faith in anything other than an excellent state of affairs on this important project. The discussions on this subject have revealed that there is considerable loneliness among members of Congress that this can and should be done better than ever. I also have a optimistic view that the suggestions in this work will be useful, especially when I look at the proposals that have taken place in the broad audience. I am very optimistic that the knowledge that comes from doing this work in proposals and ideas on how we can better ensure the necessary supervision to use the resources of the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u27	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the Chairman of the Commission and Commission and the Commission for a good opinion. I wanted to come up here to celebrate, because I hear that. A minister takes this matter very seriously, for there is good reason. This is a lawsuit against the administration and our surveillance of the fishing road, one of our biggest commercial means. That is why it is vital that we handle this matter well. The responsibility of the council is just as high as it is to criticize that there is a lack of clarity and authority in the legislation. In fact, the minister ended up answering my big question, which was that time line spoken by the minister of the staff, the task force will come back in the fall. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in this context: Does he see that a group of fully formed proposals made by a minister will then be brought into the council right away in the autumn months so that the serious offenses that seem to be in the legislation and in the working environment can be dealt quickly and safely with?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u28	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Yes, there is good reason to take this seriously. I also appreciate good words and agree with them. A senator had the job of an administration and monitoring committee on the case. Indeed, there is also one thing that is well done, both in the surveillance and in the Ministry and in all those related to it and in the ones who work in the article as well. I mean, it's like the other thing that we often wrestle with the cunts, so to speak, if you can say something that's wrong, whether it's the police or our surveillance agencies, it's the skunks that throws down on the whole article. So I want to stress that most of those who associate with the fishing resource do so with responsibility and respect. There are always instances where we can improve. Be serious, then, looking for ways to correct any minorities in the area. I don't know exactly what form we're gonna get suggestions for the work we're starting right now. Depending on the issues involved, this may vary considerably. All I'm counting on is the group of consultations, together with the project management, will work on it. And the most urgent and simple thing to do is to make some kind of contribution that either comes prepared in the form of a legal adjustment or in the form that the Ministry can work quite quickly and effectively with the viewpoints indicated. There's got to be something about the nature of the case every time because there's not some single line in this job. Many surfaces need to be handled, and some of them are relatively rich, such as that. ... thatisabehaviourandprecaution. Other factors on further priorities or analysis will be more difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the highest. Happily, a minister is a minister, so most are doing a good job. Most people do well. But that's the cunt thing. We have a pretty good example of the serious consequences of when agencies were sick, and that's what you're afraid of in this context too. If we don't succeed, if we don't have a surveillance facility, more people will walk on the track and cause problems. That is why I also wondered about the growth of Fishing Room. We are now discussing the government budget next week, and although it may not be directly related to this case, I would like to ask the highest degree. A minister may have emphasized his work to strengthen the very business of the Fish Room. I declare myself ready to work with him on that. It is quite clear in this case and in the context of a fish farming discussion, that the Fishing Room thinks it is, it is well presented in the National Reexamination report, is scarce, and is prepared to care for at least part of his project. We have an obligation to ensure contributions to the Fish Room on government planning, as if to form a financial program that we will discuss next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u30	A respectable president. I appreciate those tips. On the other hand, I call attention to what I agree in the review of a management and monitoring committee, where it speaks of her opinion that there are more possibilities than to increase the number of the monitors, etc. It's not all about money. It's also about fixing things that are relatively easy in some respects to do, such as. The Commission's tip on registration and the rest at Fish Room. To me, it's a bit compatible, i.e. that governments are about to support and strengthen the foundations of the surveillance programme, but also to go into the Agency only itself, and maybe consider the processes that can be improved, as the Commission and the Commission correctly mentioned, in a report of the Government Review. We saw that well in the report how this great noise that naturally follows the movement of the Agency affects the function and may still be a part of it. Surely we will work hard to secure the funding that the patrol calls for. There is no doubt that we will discuss this. By the end of the counter, I have not yet heard in any department that does not accept increased financial resources from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u31	President. V.E.G. In the latter, a minister says that he does not know any surveillance agency that would not accept more money. This is probably true, but here we are talking about a facility that claims to have been subversive and subversive for many years and that she cannot fulfill her role as law by the means of the money available. They are not the only ones who ignore this. This is also stated by Our State Reconnaissance, which is our patrolr, which is under the order of the Council to monitor the Commission for which the Minister is responsible. We think it's normal for a minister to have authority. In his old financial system, he was able to use funding to finance what had to be financed afterwards, e.g. following a review of serious fractures threatening sustainability in the use of fish resources. The new budget is authorized for Ministers to use financial resources within their department when we receive serious information about major failures in the face of observation. What I would like to ask the minister is any of the suggestions proposed in a report he intends to take immediately. You don't have to wait six months while this is on a committee. It sounds like a professional committee, but we only see it when we see what comes out of it. Will the Minister wait six months and allow the circumstances he knows are there to damage the sustainable uses of our resource? That will involve the future. Will he wait for six months to take some of the action proposed in order to comply with the law in the land?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u32	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. For financial resources it was not that the minister had free hands, it had to be picked up in the old system. Funds received charge for financial aid. The new financial system assumes that there are no funding laws. Rather, there are reserves in institutions that vary in size. They are still being built up, and there are not enough funds to meet all the expectations of surveillance institutions, including ... undermyminister,hopetotakeit. The reason I mention this is because we're in every place with a wish to improve the surveillance or other activity of the State. That's a normal view, and I don't minimize it. But I don't. A member of the council says there are also some things in the institutions here that can be considered better handled. A report published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York says that we can begin to study God's Word. In order to be informed, we've tried to support this institution for the prisoners of the small money we have, but it's short enough. When asked if we will wait six months to take action, I will not make any major changes in this project within the budget year, that is perfectly obvious. It's much closer to taking this wide, big, big consultation. I'm telling you, the committee is a professional committee or trying to do it. Although people may differ in their viewpoints to those who may be included in it, efforts are made to include it in the most efficient and most efficient ways, with the aim of looking at the discussion of the report, on the state of surveillance, according to professional views. [[The president calls.]] On the basis of that work, I intend to take some action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u33	President. I'm thinking, under the new arrangement, there's room where a minister has a set fund that he can handle. Yes, there are many opinions that there is a greater need for financial support here and then, but now the Council is prepared to provide a state-research report that the monitoring of the resource is significantly lacking and cannot be fulfilled the law as it is. Then there must be a need for immediate action. And something can be done right away. If I were a marine carol and agricultural minister, I'd think, "What can I do now? I've made my money here. How can I react? I can't do everything right now. I can't reorganize the Agency to be more efficient, not yet, there's a more professional procedure to be started by the Minister. It must wait until the fall because it cannot be done right away. But could a minister consider whether he could see something that could be done immediately for the funds he has to move closer to the Agency's having the law, to move closer to a more sustainable way in which our resource is being taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u34	A respectable president. I thank you again for the enthusiasm of a case. A senator in dealing with them and sharing them in many ways. To me, this is much bigger. In any case, the Agency's doing just fine. However, there are various aspects of the implementation of the laws the Agency operates on which I believe it is very important to respond, and the Ministry is, of course, working on these factors. Without telling me what its components are and what they can do, they can intervene and respond according to the circumstances and materials, to be said, on the part of the Ministry. But the big film that's being drawn up here is that there's not a match between our legislature - it's not quite perfect - and what a fish lab in this case can actually do. Somehow you need to set the factors together into the context of a smaller plan before entering some particular aspects of monitoring. It's a lot more complicated than just having someone to take part in it. I think we need to examine this whole thing. If I was to mention one thing that could be considered specifically and considered, it would be the factors directly related to what is referred to in the opinion of a management and monitoring committee involved in the management and monitoring of the Ministry to the relevant institution. It would be the simplest thing to think of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u35	V.E.G. President. I'll admit it right here, and now I'm surprised when I saw a report of the State Reconsistencies on Fishing Room surveillance for the first time, and when a government accountant was facing a surrogacy. The board of directors and surveillance committee reviewed its contents. In itself, I find a report of the State Reconclusion of a ultimatum over the High Commissioner for a period of time, as well as a judgment against the Council of the Council, of the Fundamental Council, of the financiers, of the people who made financial proposals and of not being aware of the situation. I confess that, e.g. I personally did not realize how badly this institution had become financially. With respect for words, the highest. A minister that all surveillance agencies would like to get more money around this isn't any surveillance agency, it's a surveillance agency that monitors our beach, which monitors our quality of resources. I can't see any better because we can't change the past than we can learn from it, but that the suggestions and tips given by the Government Accounting indicates that treatment is successful, i.e. weighing, missing, and still it is. It seems that only those who walk through the resource in general were generally trusted to behave in a sizable way. I'm not going to throw down on it or to be suspicious of it, but as an old collector of the state funds I still have to admit that trust in the efforts of such interests can be risky, i.e. if your check-ups are not enough to verify that you are being treated correctly. It's like monitoring taxes, etc., it's no different surveillance, except that this is monitoring our largest resource. What we will see in a report entitled Kingdom Review faces two challenges. It's about to fix, i.e. uncertainty about how the Agency cooperates and how the Agency operates and this long-term budget. Of course I'm glad to hear that. A minister is forming a group of consultations. I fear very much that a 21 committee will not deliver some in the fall days, simply because we command such a large group, he will need a bit of room himself to cover what is meant to happen to him. As indicated by the words "whisper. " paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson earlier, is here with work and tips that can't wait for me to fall. They need immediate action. How humans do so in a narrow, narrow position. on changed grounds of how we build budgets, etc. I don't feel in itself the main thing here. I think the main thing is to get to the top. A minister will find ways to strengthen the institutions to some extent while working on future solutions to the way this is going to happen. I say again, we can't, and the Agency can't, and the resource can't wait for the autumn to be reviewed. In fact, there was another part of the report that struck me, a point that had been taking a long time for me. I myself had been pretty sure that it wasn't all the way it should be, you know, about holding on a warrant. I am quite convinced of it, and I just wait to be made backward with it, that among the largest companies in the country are companies that have come up from the roof and have, by distributing the income on other companies which they own, etc., avoid being able to get away with, if I can put it that way. I'm just as convinced that any of these largest companies are already out of this roof. That's why I'm so happy that it's suggested that it be 13 and 14. ... willbe revised. There's one more thing I could add as a private examination, I think it's a good idea to be working on that roof that's going down. It's not easy to lower the roof over a period of time. There's no property record because men can sell away fishing warrants. It's just that the maximum amount of resources is dropping. Instead of having three, four companies that carry the air on this industry, now... If we just look at them cold, they will have the effects of these assets, even if the resource itself is in their national possession, that they do, e.g. Little less political power. We, the lawgiver, are just like kids. If most of the labour markets decide themselves to react somehow or to change the structure of their companies, etc. We don't have any influence on it, not anyone. I believe we need that power and should have it so I say again: Here are things that can't wait. Here are some things that need to be handled right away. In my opinion, we look at it for perhaps six months more that monitoring of weight gain is extremely lacking, as it shows. No matter how we want to do so, it is not acceptable to be properly monitored for an event on board. It must be done. Actually, it's not just about the institution that's under here, it's also about the D.A., and we all know it's very expensive. One of our patrol ships is in the middle of the Sunship, and that is not coming out in the near future. We curse having one ship at sea to protect all the jurisdiction. No matter how serious this situation is, it is very serious, and it needs to be addressed, as the report says, which is extremely successful. There is reason to thank Kingdom citizens especially for how they are worked and how they are installed and how they are clear and clear. It really requires us to take note of it, to accept its indications, and to show it in some specific way even now. Of course, I hope this fall is the judicious group of ministers. But I repeat, during that work we must deal with the financial resources of these institutions as soon as possible. I say again: We've all been missing the situation at the council. I don't know, because I'm not on a budget and I haven't done it, if there's any evidence there yet. I don't know. I do not recall my being on a professional professional committee at the time that this agency has offered special messages in the area where a pot was broken in the organization's financing. But it doesn't matter everything, it doesn't have to point out one or another. It is simply remarkable that these conditions have been ongoing all these years and that no one has fully understood them. We owe both the Agency and our natural resources and ourselves to respond as quickly as possible and then to take the suggestions seriously that hopefully will be seen on autumn days and respond to them as quickly, immediately, because the conditions drawn up in this report are a great penalty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u36	Madam President. I asked the highest. In response to his speech, a marine dignitor minister in response to any of his talks would there be something he could do right away? He says that he now intends to establish a group of 21 people, a large group. Like what? paritaprevir Sæmundsson pointed out that it often takes a long time for a large group to get together and work on it. The minister expects it to run out in the fall. We will be talking about maybe six months before some action is taken. A minister said that there was one thing he could do, that the Ministry itself had to do more control over Fish Room. This has been reviewed by the Federal Accounting Agency of the Generals. It has a law to assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of institutions, to evaluate whether the funds that an institution can gain as the most efficient and most efficient way to achieve the results of the law. That's the point. That is the purpose of the report we are discussing here and offering suggestions for improvement. And here's some suggestions for improvement. It seems that only one factor is intended for the minister to strengthen the monitoring of projects 13 and 14. a law on the control of fishing, so the Ministry itself monitors this facility, Fish Room. It's just that it's not good enough at all. Or what? Is that good enough? Let's read the suggestions for improvement from the General's Institute of Observation, the National Reconclusion, so that our fish resources are not being used in an insurmountable manner for the next six months until the Minister is ready for his team. The Parliament has been given a National Accounting Research, a professional agency, to evaluate what can be done as soon as it offers suggestions for improvement. The first one's on the operation of the law, by permission of the President: ▪ The procedure of the legislation needs to be performed by the management board. 116/2006, on fishing management, and on law No. 57/1996, about contact with crops of the sea.• There's a lot of surveillance to be done. Yes, Minister said he was going to strengthen the surveillance of the Fish Room when it comes to the Ministry. The second point of the proposal says: The necessary measures and resources must be set so that careful monitoring can be done in a progressive and effective manner. Now it's clear that the Fish Room is subsidious. She can't do her legal job. So in this case it must be minimally possible to do now to ensure that, as here says, the necessary resources - in this case capital, so that the Fish Office can determine the standards, hire several employees to do the work that she has the law to do today but cannot do. There are pots inside the Ministry of finance to handle such cases precisely. When there is such clear information about what must be done to fulfill the law, a minister should use these pots to enforce the law. Otherwise, he's not doing his job. He's fully executed. He's to enforce the law. Another suggestion for reform in a State Review report is the monitoring of weighing, with four points. Let's start with the President's permission: To improve the monitoring of the resource use, a clear set of indicators needs to be made in the marine markets and in the control of vectors. A test must be made to determine whether to transfer the weight to the dock range under the custody of Fish Labs. Part of this must be possible right away. To see if this should go under the custody of the Fish Room might take some time, but doesn't it have to be put into this huge group, or what? There is clearly a clear requirement for weighting sea resources and land management. Some of these may be done immediately. Point two on weight monitoring, with permission of the President: The Joint Declaration of Fish Service must follow with Iceland's Habitat so that we can improve the weight monitoring of portv. It is important that the necessary improvements mentioned in the declaration continue to be made so that there may be a reduction in the risk factors present during weighing at seaportvog. Clearly, this can be done right away. There is something called the co-operation Declaration of Fish Labs at the National Recontinental Association in order to further improve the monitoring of the weight at seaportvog. This declaration of cooperation exists, and it can be promptly called upon to require that it be carried out. That's what the government's supposed to do. Point three on weight monitoring: To improve the monitoring of the weightability of the Marketing Authorisation holders, a review of the revision needs to be performed. It must be ensured that effective and effective monitoring of home-wage should be performed. This need to be revised from scratch. This is something that belongs to the Minister's staff that would come back in the fall. The fourth point for Proposition No. 2 on weight monitoring, on permission of the President: There is a need for review of the surveillance facilities for the GAM. To find that there are significant variations in ice ratio, it has to be used to monitor all the weight of the permit holder for up to six weeks. This can be done immediately, increasing the size of the surveillance authorities in the weighed Marketing Authorisation Holder. Suggested resolutions No. 3 A report by the Re-examination of an attack has two points in it. Let's start with the first, with President's permission: The Agency needs to know whether or not to improve the cooperation between Fish House and Iceland's National Protection Agency in the control of an outcast. This is something that would take longer and can be added to a ministerial servant's task force, resulting in the fall. The second point regarding elimination monitoring: While aboard fishing vessels, they need supervision and technology that could save time and money. This can be done immediately, the first part of increasing the number of surveillance workers so that there is a higher level of observation on board. It should be done right away. The future technologies are things that can be waited and entered a ministerial servant class, and we get something out of it in the fall. But the other one can be done right away. Suggested resolutions No. 4 of Our Re-evaluation, so our sea resources are not being badly treated, and we follow the laws on sustainability and the monitoring of our sea resources, the monitoring of the integration of resources is being carried out. There are three points. Let's start with the first one, with President's permission: The regulations of 13 and 14 will need to be reviewed. track No. 116/2006, about the control of fishing. so they serve their purpose. It must be ensured that the exact time between two or more parties should be clearly linked to their implementation. These provisions need to be revised. It takes time. It may enter the Minister's staff. Point two of the three on the Summaries compression: ▪ The management of linked unions over resources must be established on a regular and targeted basis according to Article 13. corrects the control of fishing. This can be done right away. This is just a collection of data, that the data are summarised on the authority of linked parties over labour sources. It's just a matter of evaluating who has the authority to do this. You can immediately assign someone to that assignment and would need to be done. Third and final dot in motion for monitoring the integration of Preservations, with permission of the President: ▪ The way to monitor the ownership of agricultural companies and the relationship between marine species needs to be reviewed. A targeted monitoring of the ownership of a fishing company is required so that the Fishing Room will have the latest information on bone and indirect links between marine parties at any given time. It's a property report. I used to work on such a project at the local Contestant Institute, it was a government and property report that the Agency did for largely a grocery market, I think, maybe more extensive, I can't remember it in the face. It's been 15, 16, 17 years since I did this. Someone has to be assigned to this mission, and it's done. This can be done right away. However, it seems that a minister intends to wait for six months before launching a checkup and collecting information and data and monitoring on the basis of a work declaration and a law and an increase in funds. The report makes it clear that there is no money to enforce law. The minister does not intend to enforce the law as suggested by the Government Accounting, he intends to wait for six months. I don't think that's okay. I'm going to see what we have to do at the council so that his minister may be responsible for his duties in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u37	A respectable president. We'll discuss a report on the Management Board and the Commission's opinion on the report. The report contains the results of the review of The State Reexamination at the request of the Council since March 2018, which was published in December 2018. The aim of the report was to investigate the work process and results of the Fishing Office during the monitoring of the range of revenues, emissions, and the compression of markets. Other projects were not there. At the same time, the management and surveillance of the Ministry of Employment and Development were investigated by the Agency. The Commission and monitoring committee discussed the report of their meetings and obtained the opinion of the employment authorities that follow up with the opinion of the Directorate-County Committee on the Senate document. I'm signing the opinion of the management and monitoring committee, and I agree with what it says, which is the opinion that the chairman of the Committee has been referred to here in a discussion of history. However, I will pause at several points in the report and the opinion of the Commission, but I would like to first say that the report points to some opportunities for improvement, including with more efficient cooperation with ports, clearer targets, and clearer priorities in the monitoring and use of technology, as well as the need to review certain laws and rules for fishing and monitoring. Fishing clinic monitoring is an important part of the implementation of government policy on sustainable and responsible fishing. Thus, there must be trust and efficiency and benefitability, and especially between the Rapporteurs and those under observation. The main conclusions of the Official Review have been attributed here, but a national accountant presents 11 suggestions for improvement in four categories. Some of these proposals are being worked with in the Fish Office, and it has been reported that the Department of Employment has started working on other harvests. I'd like to discuss some of the ways in which we can improve. There is considerable discussion on the increase in staff in surveillance. I think it would be right to examine it as much as the use of electronic surveillance. An electronic check was found to be a practical solution and a number of monitors. In Denmark, electronic monitoring for good results has been used, but changes in formulations of these could be observed. It has also been shown to consider whether a fish lab is allowed access to electronic information on real-time weighting results and permission to use remote air travel in monitoring. It is encouraged that the Fishing Room and the National Guard work more together, which has been effective in the fishing Homes in the North. One of the findings of the management and monitoring committee is that the employment and innovation services and the Fish Office provide a better basis for cooperation and consultation. I believe this is very important and emphasise the professional leadership of the Directorate-Progression Ministry in the shape of monitoring despite the need for knowledge and implementation in the Fish Lab. The report states that two laws recommend the obligation of a minister to set Regulation. On the one hand, there is the need for reference to the operations of Fishing Houses. This law has never been established, although the law remained virtually unchanged from the time the Law was given in 1992. I think there's a good opportunity there for the present highest. Minister to make things right. The lawgiver has authorized a minister to set such a directive and will not be allowed to do so. Comments with the bill at the time, which became the law of the Fish Room, are as follows: ▪ It is not proper to legally bind an organization or division between fish firms. The Agency's work programme, which has so wide a field of activity, must always be made up of changes. Is it normal, then, that these matters can be handled as best you can at any given time and cost as much as possible? Thus it seems clear that a minister cannot fully deliver a decision-making authority to a fishing manager. It states that rejections should meet the requirements for the weight gain of marine resources and the monitoring required in a Regulation and that the Ministry can prohibit the introduction of marine forces in individual ports which do not meet the requirements of the Regulation. This Regulation has not been established either. However, the report on the Ministry's response shows that it plans to set the limits of the waterfront policy and that there is an opportunity to set the requirements for a more specific mechanism. The Council intends to investigate the implementation of the charges of weight gain in the law and the duties of the dock authorities related to it. In this case, there is an examination to make electronic check and direct contact to the FA database on conditions for rewlaning. These points, I think, are very important. Technology offers a number of new opportunities, both for direct electronic communication, direct link between scale, cameras, and other ways to look at national information systems. In such cases, it should be noted that monitoring should be performed in accordance with monitoring around us, including we weigh from share stocks and where foreign ships of countries are gathering here. One of the factors in the Fish Room's response is that Fishing Room recommends bringing weight to the docks under the control of the Agency. That's an idea, however, I don't understand. The inspector can hardly have custody of the project he is to oversee. I believe, however, that with good cooperation with the ports of the country, clear demand for facilities and performance, and good guidelines, there could be a significant improvement in the degree of weight loss on the docks and the efficient cooperation of the Marine Office and Iceland Reconnaissance, which must be effective at all times. The report says that there is good cooperation between the Ministry and the Fish Office on improving the surveillance. I welcome the response of the Ministry of Business and Development to set up a project management to review the report and the tips that must be agreed on. Similarly, it is important to take the meeting place as high as possible. A minister went over here before the price was most effective so that the tips can be processed and the improvements made as soon as possible. However, as mentioned earlier, the key to review workforce, cooperation, and cooperation between all parties, review laws, and see the top of pages 13 and 14. ..of the management of fishing.....for the maximum catcher sector. It is therefore important to monitor the use of the marine resource and to make contact with it sound and in accordance with law at any given time. You need to have full confidence between the Rapporteur and those using the resource on a fair and efficient control so that everyone using the resource is aware of sitting at the same level. Thus, public interests will be best maintained and sustainableity in the resource use will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the story talk. I'm not really able to resist, they're so rare, these white ravens, the council members of this discussion, that I'm going to use this opportunity, and I'm going to think of a matter that attracts the influence of Fish Room to Akureyri's operations. It was quite in the news at the time of the transfer, and it was highly critical and discussed that things had been better handled. The report shows that there is a high number of workers involved, expensive transport, a negative impact on the working person, etc. and then it can be added that in a annual report for Fish Service 2015, I think, I have found that in these circumstances it took a great deal of effort to defend this nuclear activity, that less powder is put into items like quality surveillance and other things, and it takes no prophet to realize that there is a reason why a fish lab is getting this loss score in a report today. I was kind of wondering what. A senator may agree that we see here an example to show how government agencies are not to be brought, anyway. A senator feels that this is part of the case and that we too have learned lessons here. All of us are interested in building up jobs in many parts of the country, including that people who live in areas, whether rural or rural, can prefer to be interested and skilled. However, that it is quite clear that there are ways to find out other than to carry a power messenger and that preparation is not better than it is in this case and that it is part of what has had a negative impact on the vital activity being carried out there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. To tell you the truth, I was surprised when I saw the report that what is missing in the process, I can't see that the report is in any way direct reference to the noise that was inevitable because of the move. On the other hand, that is exactly what happened. A senator said, "The workers' choice grew over a period of time. However, it is natural to think of the group of employees as being quite scattered, not all of them in one station, before or after this transfer. Well, at least I think, like a whisk. A senator pointed out that the majority of those who came to the move in their day would do something different than that if they went back into it now. I have visited the Agency, the leading office of the Agency in Akureyri, and I have experienced that there was a great deal of calmness around the operation and a good worker in a new position after the headquarters of the move was resolved. I just want to reiterate that I was surprised not to see any of these faults directly linked to this root.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for what she said. As a matter of fact, I'm going to quote a report from the U.S. president's permission: It has been reported in the management department that it was the assessment of Fish Office and Business and Development Ministry that the uncertainty of the situation created in June 2014 was greatly influenced by the announcement of the then marine road and agricultural ministers for transport. Then it says: The 2015 Fish Office report showed that to protect nuclear activity, other functions, such as quality, improvement, and development work, had to be reduced. Substitution would have affected the ability of the Agency to carry out its legal duties... I'm the next thing I'm sure the causal relationship is pretty clear here, but it's already done and done. I wanted a second objection to see what I thought. A senator has it when we are trying to unite in this project, to make it possible for people to live around the country, because we build a better community like this. There are many ways in which you can do this. Modern technology can make sure that people can do the work anywhere, e.g. through a high - speed network - wet. A senator sits on an environment and transport committee where these things are being discussed. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me that this would be a better way than by carrying an invitation to entire institutions from urban areas, from the capital area, or from one place to another, it doesn't have to be just from here on out, i.e. To transport them fishy? Is it better to use technology and make such an arrangement that people can leave home or wherever they choose to live rather than move entire institutions from one country to another?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is important to have the opportunity to discuss this matter, even if we have just been through the material of the report. I don't think we should rule out any avenues, as in this institution's case, which actually has several operations. A fishing room has a work station in the capital area and several people throughout the country. If I went back to the previous question, it might have been possible for me to think about this change over a longer period of time with the council back to a new location. I honestly don't know exactly how it was, not in detail, and it doesn't come out that way in the report. Technology is very important. I think we also have an opportunity exactly when we divide out surveillance projects to institutions, monitors that have to be done around the country, I am here to form a reference to the fish farm bill, that we think it is possible to take care of the monitoring materials from institutions that are already present in those areas, such as If that is true of health care, clinics when appropriate, fish clinics work when it is appropriate that we sometimes legalize those who somehow make unnecessary travel expenses on designated institutions and carry assignments from the existing institutions of the country. I'm a great spokesman for the use of technology outside. In various projects, technology can benefit us so much better than it is now, including in the university environment in both directions, where we gather knowledge from the country's settlements and take it to the country, to health care, and to all kinds of knowledge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u42	The president would like to remind members of the Parliament that the material on the program is being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u43	Mr. President. A report by the Government Review and the opinion of the Commission and monitoring committees is the subject of these discussions. The report is a rather sad reading, I think I have to use a little strong wording. We are deeply lacking in the way they have been handled, if we are judged by a report by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York. That is a sad guess because we are talking about one of the most important jobs we Icelanders in the long term. This is a industry on which we all own a resource. Hence, it is sad to think that governments have done no better than they do. How sad to know that we do not think better about the resource and its resources and that we do not have more control. It is a privilege to make use of this resource, and privileges need to be used well and should be closely monitored. The report shows that it is not. This is also a bit sad because the report shows that this is a situation that is not all at once discovered. This is not something that happened six months ago or several weeks or months ago. The condition seems to have been ongoing. In recent decades or decades, it must be thought of the responsibility of those who have been most effective in this regard. There is no need for a specialist to realize that those who have handled these matters are primarily two political parties in Iceland, an independent party and a forwarder party. I feel that this is a rather severe penalty for how the fine groups have directed matters that we receive such reports. A lot of the report is very serious. Weighting, evaporation, etc. However, I would like to pause primarily with the factor that I find most serious that is that we have decided to have a system based on the ability to use the resource. They've got warrants, or goodbyes. It was also set when this control system was placed on the wisdom, right, and normal way to limit their share in the resource. This has been set up in a set of rules that are presented in the report to be defective. Most seem to agree that the rules and relationships are highly defective. But it is one thing to have faulty rules, which should, of course, be added, but the other is worse that even after rules are honored, humans have had no opportunity to follow them. I think it's very serious that we should be so careless about making sure that there are rules about the wealth that the people share I listened to the highest. Secretary of the sea will respond to the report and report the events ahead. I'm a spokesman for getting used to big projects. I feel that there is reason to mention that in many respects the minister is responding wisely. He calls people to action. He declares that there will be a plan on how to deal with this, extensive cooperation, etc. On the other hand, there are things here that could be rushed a little by, i.e. that you prioritize tasks and decide what is most important. I thought there was a little bit of a lack of ambition for the highest. In an effort to speed that project up, a sea chief minister makes clear his priorities on the main points of the matter. All that matter has been discussed a lot. There has been a high frequency of evaporation and monitoring. You will be told how to tighten and improve the monitoring of who owns the quatane and whether they are indirectly using the system defects to increase their share. There is no need to do detailed research on the problem. I think the problem is totally clear. That's why I would have suggested at the highest. Minister to at least Accordingly, the five - man committee set a strict limit of time and a clearer description of what to do first. Of course, it's good to consult, and he said that a large audience would be set up with 10 to520 parties, and I heard him say. Even now, there are many stakeholders, and of course, it is only natural to have a conversation with them, but in these matters too, stakeholders guard their interests, the nature of the matter. At times, stakeholders and governments need to speak clearly and firmly because such work can be drawn into a way to get their way back and forth. If people are going to try to solve this completely, I'm afraid that the agreement will be difficult and slow and that the reconciliation will ultimately mean that the goals we're going to not be reached, which are to ensure that the interests of the public are cared for in the management and use of the resource. We must not forget that this is the issue, that the resource is controlled and controlled, according to the interests of those who own the resource and should enjoy its crops. I think it's a guide that's very important to the highest level. A sea chief minister must explain and keep his mind focused on such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u44	A respectable president. We're covering a report on the National Reconnaissance on Fish Room. When you read a board of administrations and monitoring committees, you kind of put the sound. It makes it clear that a national accountant will evaluate the implementation of GDP in different ports and not always in accordance with law and administration directives. He says the law is being violated. I ask myself, " How long has it been possible for this matter to be violated? ' In general, the monitoring of the Fish Room with weighing is limited, inexplicable, and weight-grading arrangements provided significant variations in registration. So there's the law and the wrong registration. It must tell us something is very serious. We're talking about our second largest industry today. I think the tourism has taken over. We're starting to calm them down. But we better not act in that area, as we did in front of our fishing grounds. According to the opinion, the President's permission states: The elimination follow-up is also extremely limited, weak, and nonremarkable. ... In addition, the actual success results of monitoring are kept in the dark. There are no clear conclusions of success or success. ... According to a government accountant's opinion, the control of fish industry by weighting, deportation, and the integration of markets does not provide adequate support to the aims of fish management and to adapt contact with crops in the marine environment. It is said that on a large scale, we are simply environmentally feeding on fishing grounds and fish in the sea. It must be a little strange, though, that from the time the country was built, we, who believe we've been a fishing nation all along. According to the opinion, the President's permission states: In Denmark, electronic monitoring for good results has been used, but changes in formulations could be observed. The management and monitoring committee considers it proper to consider that a fish room is allowed access to electronic information on the real-time weighting results and access to the use of telecommunications in its monitoring activities. Danes have taken up a much better surveillance system than we do. The question is, if it is true, why are they far ahead of us? It also says that a fishing room has been prepared for 2013-2017 and therefore cannot be properly monitored. The report also shows that the number of workers at Fish Room has decreased by 29% since 2008 as the number of projects has increased. Then, in addition to that, a fish living room has pointed out that the Agency would need to be improved by a regular work to support its role. Was it deliberately and deliberately causing harm to Fishing Room? Was she making sure that she could not follow up, could not do her job, with 30% cuts and more projects? Given this, something like that must have been going on. In addition to the Commission's opinion on the state-of-the-art monitoring of the Fish House, the European Commission's opinion of a report states: ▪ An accountant noted that a single-relevant deletion study had not been conducted in over a decade, and a long-term-dependent evaporation data collection of data was gradually summed up during the past few years. In a news report at a mlblís, based on what appeared at Koscosis, it says this puts it this way: I've been on many ships. Everywhere, the sailor told Trausti Gylfason in his commentary on RUS this evening. It showed footage taken at sea by Trausti in 2008-2011 and showed a great evaporation of fish, which laws forbidding evaporation. It's just a mess of the worst kind. And, of course, very serious. The officers like this are not supposed to be allowed to hunt; the Eyþór Björnsson, director of Fish House, told him when he watched the footage of the ship Countberg. The show showed that in some cases fish were systematically thrown into the sea, sometimes during each period. Now I can't be fired for this. I think it's right for you to show up, to tell Trausti on the show, but he lost his job earlier this year. The images show how cod, kara, mackerel, and ewe are thrown into the sea in large quantities. You don't know what to say. I used to do small Christmas Eve 30 to 40 years ago, handpoint, net, and troll, and then no one came to mind, on the boats I was on, throwing some fish into the sea. It was all new. But now it seems that there is another requirement, and there is no monitoring. Fish can be discarded without supervision, and we do not even think about keeping electronic surveillance. We're thinking of setting it up, but Danir's been through it a long time ago. In view of the employment committee, it also says: It is therefore important to monitor the use of the marine resource and contact with it in a reliable and legal way. The Commission welcomes the quick response of the employment and innovation department to the public accountant's indications and encourages improvement according to the results of the report. It is not surprising that today there are laws and regulations that need to be encouraged. I think it would be really worth checking it out and getting a report on how this could possibly happen. Who is responsible for this? This must tell us that someone is responsible for the complete surveillance of the paralytics, that fish can be thrown out and that our resource can be taken care of in this way. This report also points out that the monitoring of the Fishing Room, which has the compression of markets, is primarily based on reports made by the hands of the labor authorities. It seems that it is the intention of those who are hunting and possessing these resources that are using these resources, without paying close to the right price to the nation for, for reporting. They are to be self-sustained and self-monitoring. I think this is a sentence against us here at the council and members of the council. We must set a better example. We must realize that there is a requirement for other natural practices. We've discovered the last Friday that here on the East Coast, young people come to protest, to fight for nature. Much of this is being treated respectfully with our resources, making sure that no major damage is being done. Then there's another one, building a giant house over a Oceanographic Institute. I'm asking myself, " Should we mention that Lorna? ' [[The president calls.]] Only in memory of the lost fur, others to reminders. If we don't take better care of the resource, what will happen to all the other institutions? Will they be like the hairy - gone?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u45	President. We'll discuss a report on the Management Board. We will also discuss the opinions of the Commission and the review of the Commission and the review of the employment committee on the report. Because I'm sitting in both sides. The matter is related to me by members of the Parliament when it is discussed in both places. But I'm not going to extend the discussion at all. The denominators speak extensively and, at least, are very thorough. Perhaps it is my origin in history or journalistism that causes me to consult the source that is this time the state reexamination report. To me, she tells me everything that needs to be said. There's a lot of whisks out here. Its contents are handled well by members of the council. There are four suggestions for improvement that the National Accounting Study especially emphasizes. I think we should listen specifically to them. It speaks of the implementation of laws, weight monitoring, monitoring of an attack, and then it is one of the things I'm going to make up a special subject, i.e. Monitoring the compression of Preservations. V.E.G. A sea manager has established a group of tasks to review this, a collaborate, and preached in his excellent speech to a conclusion from that work to be expected in the autumn. I understand that people want to take immediate action. If I have long observed the management system, I have to say, though, that I think it's pretty quick to work. At the next legislature, I hope we can discuss laws, bills and suggestions to improve the situation. What's really about what I wanted to talk about, and maybe it's the debate we're primarily going to have in this council hall and in some committee job in my opinion, is a fourth proposal, a control of the integration of resources. Evacuation of an event, there are various pathways, such as camera surveillance and other such, telecommunications, weight loss. These are technical solutions that I will wait for from those who are better familiar with them than I am before I go into them better. The procedure of fishing management must be strengthened by monitoring, and necessary measures must be ensured, so that careful monitoring can be performed in a consistent and effective manner. This is the key, in the opinion of the State Reconnaissance, and we need to resolve in this work and monitoring of the integration of resources. President. The system we've already established is based on the principle that no one person can have more than 12% of their resources. That's key. We can discuss even too much - a roof should be lowered. But the basic basis for achieving that system is for the roof to hold. When a government review tells us that it needs to be examined, strengthened, even sharpened by the law, we should listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u46	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a report by Kingdom Review on the surveillance of the Fish Room that was requested to take the initiative. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. As noted in the report on November 21, 2017, it may be said that it was a specific reaction to what was presented in the newspaper commentary article RUS 21 November 2017, which showed that the Marine Office failed to fulfill its obligations according to law. The report has been discussed both on the job board and, of course, the administrative and monitoring committee, as reported here in the discussion, but it is very important that we also discuss the report, as it is not only a review of the SEC, but also of the government and how the monitoring procedure has been carried out. By permission of the president, the results of a report published by the State Reconnaissance: ▪ Seafood is one of the most profitable and profitable jobs in the country, and the public interests are high for monitoring the flow and use of marine resources are solid and in accordance with law. I think that we can all agree on this, so it's disappointing that the results of this report show beyond any doubt that the monitoring of the Fish Room by weighting, delinquency, and the integration of resources does not work as well and does not provide adequate support to the aims of a fish - fishing management agency and correct the flow of marine crops. This confirms that the request was necessary. The report is a review of the management department and the monitoring of the Fishing Room by means of sea resources and evaporation, as well as a clear tip to the Generals on the need for reviews of Article 13 and 14. the law on the control of fishing in terms of both authority and contact. In the context of this review, it is important that the authority of the linked bodies over markets be examined in a regular and targeted way, and I would like to agree with that. Mr. President. One of the findings after the 2008 collapse was that surveillance agencies were too weak and did not have the strength to react. In fact, people went so far as to say that government surveillance had simply failed, and better than the observation, there might have been less failures. According to a report by the World Congress Committee of the spring of 2010, a key factor was that the lack of monitoring for the implementation of law and financial policies was among the factors responsible for the collapse of banks. Thus, the SEC, the primary responsibility for monitoring of banks, had not increased in line with the growth of banks and did not follow the changes in the way banks carried out. The Commission also points out in its report that considering the management of the UNECE and its provisional funds up to 2006, it is clear that it was too late to raise the financial resources of the Commission to increase its ability to follow the rapid growth of the Icelandic financial system, complex property links in financial markets, and increasing the activities of surveillance providers abroad. But why am I reviewing this here and now, Mr. President? Yes, after reading this publication Public Review, I can't help seeing a similar pattern here and wondering if it's possible to make the same mistake twice. Clearly, the development of a fishing facility in line with the changes that have occurred in the fishing industry in recent years and decades has not yet been observed. I simply doubt that it was a real political wish for a fish lab to ever become a powerful observatory and to be reduced rather than the rest. This lack of political will is revealed not only in the fact that legislation has not been changed as needed and has been suggested and that the funding of the Agency is not sufficient for it to fulfill its role. As a result, the Agency is constantly dealing with problems that arise instead of being able to perform groundwork that can prevent problems from occurring. The situation may be compared to a home with five children and only changing diapers and feeding, but it is difficult to keep clean because the vacuum is broken and does not want to fix it. And, of course, there is no time for children to go to violin classes or sports or such luxury. Mr. President. Reading this report gives rise to many red lights. One of them is the compression of labor warrants on a few hands. Another is the monitoring of the weight balance of seaports, which suggests that weighing people are not able, because of the work situation, to be careful about the composition and ice rates of road resources, as well as those weighing often associated with family or friends traders, especially in smaller rural areas. According to a State Review report, their data indicate that there are differences in weight implementation, and not always in accordance with the laws and regulations of the government, and that there is insufficient monitoring of weighing. It may be skeptical as it is both weak and unremarkable. In addition, monitoring for people who have a recalibration permit or a home-wage permit. There's a lot of trust that we give sources with such permission, and as already noted, the Fishing Room is not to monitor unless the fraction of the weight is broken. We are confident that the rest of the cases will do their best. Information about saving and compositing is the most important requirement to take into account when evaluating institutions and their yield capacity. Misinaccurate or inaccurate information on the catch will inevitably lead to inaccurate calculation of the state of fish stocks and thus increase the risk of getting too close to them, so we have a lot to do with the right information. Mr. President. In many ways, this is a turning point, often resulting in great interests at stake, as shown in a report by The Watchtower. In addition, the directors of the Fish Lab have repeatedly stated that they consider the Agency to be subversive, which has been the basis for the number and extent of monitoring, as well as the inability to perform all the monitoring it should take into account. for lack of resources and penalties. V.E.G. A seafaring minister recently came up against it. paritaprevir The Oddný Harðardóttir Daughter, whom he gave for entertainment in the United States, believed that the remarkable and good cameras and new technologies and new knowledge come into the process of improving surveillance. Actually, I didn't see much fun with that discussion, but I agree with the highest. Minister on the importance of such a development. I strongly encourage him to bring the camera bill into the council first so we can get the technology to join us as soon as possible. I remind you, though, that these also come with the cost to be expected and that electronic equipment does not prevent the need for human resources. This is not to say that electronic surveillance can reduce the number of monitors, but it comes on an additional level. Mr. President. In this context, I want to remind you that the Fish Room is intended to play any role in new fish breeding legislation and that there is concern about how the Agency is going to play the additional role if there is not a substantial increase in donations to the Agency in the financial programme which will be submitted next week. Mr. President. This report is a judgment against the administration and, especially, the European Commission. However, the Congress cannot accept responsibility, for it is apparent in part that the Agency's sources are inadequate in the law, as well as that that which needs to be added to the Agency's funding. Thus, we members of the Parliament need to ask ourselves what we can do to improve the environment of the Fish Room and make it possible for the Agency's personnel to handle their assignments, both when it comes to funding, and just as much as it seems to be unsatisfactory, some of which seem to have been very difficult to change. It seems mainly that there has been a lack of political will for a former minister, and I refer to a report by the Government Review of existing legal bills but did not succeed in the political process. The highest will. However, a sea economist for change seems to be there, and I hope his will for these changes, i.e. to strengthen the control of the Fish Room and its sources, it will be as much as it has been to change the development. I hope the staff are the highest. A minister has arranged for rapid, reliable work, and the order to the council for the first. If not, I trust the U.S. Senate will take up the task of reviewing regulations 13 and 14. track No. 116/2006, on the control of fish fish fish, and possibly on the other hand. In view of the discussion in the past, we should do so as soon as possible. especially in financing. Mr. President. We are fortunate that in Icelandic fishing roads, we are strong parties, and we can boast of being among the best nations. But to monitor strong sources, you also need a strong organization that holds the interests of all Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u47	Mr. President. We will discuss a report on marine resources monitoring and monitoring of the Fish Room. There is also a debate over why. The management and monitoring committee on the same report. It is clear to everyone that the fishing route has been the most attractive and profitable of the land's roads, and it is still extremely important for national preparation as a whole. Therefore, it is important that the resource is handled by people who practice the job well and pay the cost to the community they are due for it. This is because of the way food is taken from the grip of a fortune, brings it to land, and for further processing and export, that numerous points of contact are created in the whole process of skunks, such as the highest level. A minister named them, offers to ignore rules and appointments. Of course, what the Fish Room has to do with it is one of the most important factors in implementing the policy that governments set out for the successful use of the resource. I'm going to spend most of my time reviewing the report in very short terms. The main problems are thought to be an illegal evaporation, slow monitoring of weight gain, i.e. by means of a scale, and by smooth monitoring of the compression of the Projects, the three teams. Substitution has assessed the implementation of weight change in the waterfront range and the monitoring of the FBS with weight reduction in general, indistinguishable and providing substantial variation in the registry. Government reviews doubt that the surveillance will produce the desired results. Government reviews also believe that monitoring for an event is limited, weak, and not critical. A major factor in this weakness is the number of boats that have a license. There is evidence that a relapse is considerable and should be taken seriously. Then there is a special problem in evaluating the results of the treatment of an event and in failing criteria and standards. Regarding the third point, control of labor departments, National Reconnaissance can also find that the control of one individual or linked bodies across the labor departments, and it cannot be specifically carried out, but it is supported by a fish lab at the base almost entirely by the reporting labour departments. In fact, a report by the State Reconnaissance is a major offense in monitoring the marine resources. Overall, the decision by a government accountant is that fishing clinic surveillance does not provide adequate support, as is said, in the aim of a law on the control of fish fishing and the association of crops. However, it is recognized that monitoring is difficult to carry out and that activities with great interest are involved. A fish lab considers the Agency to be subversive in relation to the work it is intended for. In many respects, the Agency considers the legal environment to be unclear and the lack of individual sources for action. There was also a lack of knowledge about the latest information on direct and indirect links in the marine environment. The report says that proof in many kinds of cases has been difficult because of the problem at sea. Mr. President. According to a report published by the National Review Office, there are many ways to improve the surveillance of the Fishing Room. The factors examined were considered nonsensible and frail and have been included in the Fishing Room. A fish - room manager is said to have declared that there is a great lack of adequate monitoring of the Agency. Mr. President. What can be done? First, it is completely explained that the current situation is not working. Wherever they may be, surveillance providers must be moved, the tools that are sufficient to ensure that contact with the marine resource is in the best way we want, environmentally sustainable, and that fishing is paid at the expense of human beings. A decision must be made to determine whether the increase in surveillance is a solution or not. The Commission and monitoring committees believe that it needs to strengthen the monitoring of the Fish Office and mention electronic surveillance, but there would not be a need for so many patrolrs. Indeed, statistics on the true-time weighting of the fishing lab would be a major step in progress that could produce considerable efficiency. However, I place a large question mark on the use of so - called downstances in monitoring work. Admittedly, it would have to cover a few walls of personal protection first. Increased cooperation between Fish Labs and the National Guard is also necessary and would be able to achieve much success there. Of course, at that time, many of the last few years of our lives will have to be removed from the National Guard. In recent decades, our weekend service has proved to be our pride and beauty. It is suggested that the penalties and penalties of offenses be firm. That's where I put a question mark. I believe we first need to increase the quality of the Rapporteur's resources as well as to further clarify the legal environment so that they can be legalized as e.g. I'm in an illegal evasion. I think the problem is a little more convincing than the lack of severe penalties in that matter, at least for evaporation and exacerbation by weight. A detriment in itself is a severe punishment and is soon to be carried out. Then, when the case goes that way, there will be punishment for judgment. I'm especially celebrating, as shown by the opinion of both men. The management and monitoring committee, to start work at the Department of Employment and Development in order to review the report. Perhaps a reaction is to be expected within a short period of time. Other than that, I am concerned with many here who have expressed themselves on the report, which is certainly a judgment against the surveillance of the marine resource. A fishing facility has not been fully enabled, either if you are looking at the legal environment, financial resources to the Agency or other aspects of support, to monitor the resource in order to provide sufficient control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u48	Mr. President. I'm not going to spend a long time in a moon, and I'm not going to read from this report much, as that has been done earlier today. I have to say, though, since I am a very interested person on the fishing road, which has been our most important industry at least During the last 150 years or from the start of a decking project in Iceland and natural, and since it involves our most important resource and common property, I was shocked to read about all the willing items mentioned in the report. In view of the Commission and the Commission's Commission on the report, it says, on permission of the President: ▪ An accountant assesses the implementation of the ratings in different ports and not always in accordance with law and administration directives. The weight management centre is generally limited and unpredictable, and the weight-grading arrangements provided significant variations in registration. It also says: "The discontinuation follow-up is also extremely limited, weak and unremarkable. " And so it says. ▪ In the opinion of a government accountant, the control of fish fish fish fish management does not provide adequate support for the control of the fish industry by weighting, deportation, and the integration of markets. The result is that monitoring for the use of the marine resource is inadequate. When I read this, I thought it might be anything else we've done about our most important resource and industry. That's all I'm willing to do, i.e. We have fine fishermen and fine designers, but the whole system around them, legislation, remuneration, etc. is something that even violates the moral standards of ordinary people. We know how it is with the distribution of resources. Some form of stress began to be granted by patents, some 20, 30, 40 years ago. The people could see the benefits, but they could not foresee the faults. They have been faced ever since, yet they have never been able to unwind them or to set new rules on that matter. We all know that in many cases, those who have obtained permission on the resource will sell it on ten or twenty times the price they pay for it and that without usually working the water. We also know how the laws have played sealands in many parts of the country. One of the latest things I've heard is that I was pointed to the last weekend in terms of the legal structure we have around this, that the current currency of the marine resource is determined by the contribution of companies, i.e. The worse the outcome, the less you have to pay. This is, at least, not an incentive to run the companies well, although this is done in many cases, but by building all kinds of costs at companies, it saves against paying for the use of the marine resource. We officers and I have long said and fought for some intelligent sale of these fishing warrants, that we find a reasonable market price for them, and that would bring money that would solve, for example. the case we heard the High Priest howl, that there was no money to do this surveillance. By walking wisely and reasonably about the resource, the money will come back. Sadly, the country's leading conservative groups are now ruling, the groups that have never been mentioned as taking reasonable measures to solve one of the main problems of our society. I feel that this report, like another nail in the chest that sinks our political bitch around the fishing grounds and makes contact with the fishing grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u49	V.E.G. President. This will be a report on the management of Fishing House. I'd like to mention here the role of the Fish Room and refer to the Agency website, with permission of the president: To protect the nation's interest in the responsible use of marine and water resources is to do what is right. According to the law, the Fishing Room has many roles. A report by the Council's Accounting presented several counts of tithing and solutions. As we discuss three separate issues, I wondered, " Would I not have had every reason to discuss the three issues separately? ' I believe that it is not appropriate to mix the rules and subsidiary laws, how or if they are followed by laws, and the control of marine resources use and emissions. I wondered, " Can a Fishing Room care for both of these teams? ' It's clear to me that the Agency is very successful. And if the Agency is successful, it will not be able to do its job. It's a very bad thing to say, 13th and 14th. Let not the work of fishing be performed, which also are the laws of the Gentiles. ... toletthegain of the total resources. It is clear what the Lawgiver's will was when a fishing law was passed. At that time, a clear will was shown on how much each enterprise could have a provision from the national community. Part of the report discussed association with crops, evaporation of another name, and weight gain. The weight of marine resources does not seem to reflect the amount of products produced from processing. It's a public rumor. It is simply possible to adjust the size of an ispirator to a higher degree than it really is, and to sustain it, or to other sources not produced in accounting, there is a firm fraction to be treated as a fraction. However, it is difficult to determine the magnitude of these fractures. I'm going to include a few points on the administration and monitoring committee's opinion on the state review report, with permission of the President: ▪ An accountant assesses the implementation of the ratings in different ports and not always in accordance with law and administration directives. The weight management centre is generally limited and unpredictable, and the weight-grading arrangements provided significant variations in registration. And go on: The elimination follow-up is also extremely limited, weak, and nonremarkable. In view of the number of Icelandic ships and fishing boats, this is a number of problems. They will take serious concerns and signs of a relapse. Surgeon monitoring is currently being carried out by fishermen in Fish Room, who monitor fishing vessels and who monitor their work on board. Every ship has a range of surveillance positions. Seamen have also been surveyed as they are asked for an outcast. Perhaps you can add that the so-called VS or VS-fund was at its time, including so that, even if it is damaged or not worth much or something, it could bring the catch that enters the ship. The rules are so that 5% of the countries can go to this VS fund. That's 80% of the value given to the state and 20% are going to make it. At first, this fund was used to run a Meritional Research Institute, but something has changed over the years and regulations have been changed. It worked very well back then, but it would need a review. But go ahead, with President's permission: According to one reference work, the Management Board of Fish Labs feels that the Agency is and has been subdiposed by the number and scope of monitoring projects. There is no way to take care of all the supervision she should take into account, including due to lack of resources and laws. It has to be called by what the wood code is, how often it is used and how long it will be since the time of the fracture episode, i.e. to investigate and decide. In addition, the Agency believes that the Agency will need to review laws on the management of fish fishing through a maximum resources share. Which direction should be revised? Do you want to change the rules for reassignment departments to rise or decrease, or is that fundamental? One leads to compression, one doesn't. I'd also like to mention the part that deals with the response of the Directorates and Neomechanical Ministry and Fish Office. It says, by permission of the president: As regards the monitoring of the suspension, the Ministry agrees with the importance of preventing an outcast. However, monitoring is difficult to perform. Here today's technology will help us, and of course we should be open to what it offers. A variety of tools that could be useful are always becoming less expensive, and modern fishing vessels are generally well - equipped and well connected to the environment. What Fish Room even has. To say this is what it is, by permission of the President: The Agency also recommends bringing weight to the Agency's waterfront under control. A fishing lab calls attention to the cooperation statement made by Fish Lab and Iceland's Reconnaissance on the implementation of G-texting and monitoring for limited surveillance. Besides increasing human resources, a review of the forecasts and home and recalibration arrangements will be required.◯ This is very important. It is important to know how home-wage permits is issued. Does Fisk have anything to say about them today? That's a question. The management and monitoring committee reviewed, including, by permission of the President: ▪ Laws and rules need to deal with violations and at the same time be powered and protected. I miss the Committee's opinion that there's no suggestion for motivation. Here's what I'm saying, in this system, there's an incentive to bring all the fish to land. As the situation is today, despite the fact that the understatement is only 50% of the saying, little fish are of little value, and tires are hardly a wedding. That's me thinking about this VS thing again. I would also like to quote the section on law monitoring. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Internet also spoke of an exposé in violating the law on the control of fish fishing and the law on the association of marine crops. In the opinion of the Committee, the wood law must be tightened so that its strength and its protection are at the same time exerted. Here I am worried that ship commanders and sailors will be made scapegoats, but they are often under intense pressure from counterfeiters. I mean, it's supposed to be the most valuable force in the country. Then we have a problem. It would continue to be a subject of motivation to come with all force into the country, and I encourage all parties to work for the least possible occurrence of this evaporational issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u50	A respectable president. I am so happy that the debate over a report by the National Reconnaissance of Fish Room began at the Parliament's Hall, and I personally highlighted this in my work as a professional committee for the discussion to come here. Why? Because it is a huge interest in our people. Because there are rich public interests in this country's second largest industry, we are very much prepared for the best way to handle it in terms of fish management. As we have seen today, the report is very good and accurate and can be considered in the main points that are taking place as soon as possible. It's like the highest. A fishing minister has issued a consultation committee of 21 persons. This is certainly a step forward in the matter for many reasons, both because it needs a full reexamination as well as because it is evident that there is a lack of agreement between various groups, different stakeholders, different institutions, state and those who are actually involved in fishing in Iceland and the industry. When there is a lack of communication, there is a lack of trust as well. That's what I'm going to do at the end of the discussion. But the report is good, turning to the role and operation of Fish Houses, monitoring of marine resources, monitoring of emissions, and monitoring of resources compression. These are the factors involved in Fishing Room. The first thing that was discussed in the Committee I participated in was that the Fish Room was subversive and efficient. It seems that the transfer of a fish lab from Reykjavík to Akureyri would not be planning a very reasonable operation, at least not well prepared enough to continue working well and of the north. This must be examined and clearly learned. The decision to perform the same important work in terms of public interest, big employment, north or south, and each country without any preparation, is not to be made to make the necessary diagnostic work needed to make informed decisions as to whether it is a good idea or not. Then arrangements must be taken so that if there are fractures at the start of the operation in a new location, this can be addressed with rapid and reliable response. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In discussing this point clearly, a sea chief said that it was a bit like he was still hoping for the best in that material, the move would have happened, it would have been done and done, and the beginning problem, and there was a mistake that would somehow improve itself. I hope it's the highest. A minister will accept it only more from his office and ministry and will not simply rely on God and will for that purpose. But again to the report and discussion of it by the Committee. All the major things have happened today, and I don't have to kill all of them. I'm going to go out there as a colleague. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson, put tremendous emphasis on it when he directed it to the highest level. Minister that there are things you can do right now. It's the slow way back home, if you'd thought, at the top. Secretary of the sea to attack on many things immediately. We really can't afford to wait for the results of the consultation group. They will probably be very good and detailed, and they will need to be checked and used as an improvement in the group, but we cannot afford to wait for the kind of work that will take place at the same time. There are a lot of things a minister can do as soon as I encourage him to take a word. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, to himself and see what he can do now. The main thing that surprised us was how little consciousness was in the Department of Professional Railroads about the evaporation problem. It struck me as a bit Spanish that the Ministry was surprised. I wish I had more time to go to all the points I believe a minister can go on immediately than e.g. It seems that weighing on a marina in the fish lab's custody will be the next logical step in that matter. We now have a major problem in the litigation industry. For those who are not particularly at heart in the word of the word, and for the way it relates to what we are discussing, it turns to rewinding secrets. Then, for example. so that they weigh the fish at port, and there's someone who's fixed for us. Then they have permission to rewoven in the freezer and even say, "It's a lot higher than we thought, but the previous weighing said. They might say 25% is inprosentan. I'm sorry. There are these things going on. In the vast majority of cases, honest work is to be done, contrary to the job. But we're dealing with the fractures here, so it's normal to wear them. For example, it is necessary to attach itself to the furnace. If there was a port hope in the custody of the Fish Room and stuck to it, it would make 5% of it, and if the re-array license were reviewed with greater attention, the risk of such fractures would be less likely. This is something a minister could get into right away. Now is the time to expire, so I'm going to take note of what I promised at the outset, which is a prominent lack of trust in the article. It is not just a lack of trust but a real feeling of suspicion. It's not good at any cooperation. For example, it was observed that men who monitor ships often fail to feel welcome there. When men are just doing their job, it may be stressful not to experience welcome at home or at sea in this case. I hope that the group of consultations will make things better. I want to finish my speech with the words that I hope to the highest. A marine minister listens to this because trust, consultation, and cooperation are such major aspects of a major operation. I hope it's well checked by a minister so that such activity is efficient for us as a nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-20-81.u51	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss this report as a matter of course. Harðardóttir So many members of the Parliament have spoken up and described the details and also their opinions on how they will react. I'm not going to go beyond that evil. I'm just gonna mention a few things here. I would like to first mention, in particular, the four men who came out and described the methods they had witnessed and started, which will then arise and hopefully go into a process that will lead to improvement. But these men stopped their potential and their work, and I think they deserve their gratitude by means of them and by their marches. True, we need to learn lessons from this, a number of lessons, and we will do so. There may be other challenges, including the fact that we should not listen to the often heard speech that has often been heard, that monitoring is bad, that monitoring is undesirable. In fact, there was a special word here a few years ago, that had become a surveillance industry, which was supposed to indicate that there was something such as self - surveillance, self - monitoring, and self - occurrence, rather than the public service. We've got a follow-up on the P.R. and the public good. Let us always remember that. This may be in line with the plans of a law-enforcement bill set up before the General Assembly, the director's bill for fish farms, where there is a plan to become a meeting committee on fish farms called, where stakeholders and stakeholders are even able to form more parts in this consultation committee. And this meeting committee is to evaluate the research of the Marine Research Institute, to assess the basis and processing of the data of the Marine Research Institute on Risk Assessment. In other words, she should look after risk assessment and monitor the surveillance. The interests of the interests should monitor the surveillance. That is, in fact, what may have happened to the Fish Room, i.e. that interest stakeholders have been given too much control over the resources available to Fish Room. There is reason to warn that such views are a dominant factor in our association with our resources, since this association is not a personal concern for those using the resources at a time. I think it has to be admitted that the transfer of Fish Room to Akureyri from Hafnarfjörður ill Fishing Company is a bit much. Although it is certainly proper to maintain that the staff of the Fish Service have worked faithfully and diligently, it was not a measure of good fortune. Nevertheless, this transfer of the Fish Room weakened indiscriminately and weakened the health - care provider, thus strengthening those who do not want for some reason to have good surveillance of their work. But I'm not going to extend this whole thing any more. I reiterate that there is reason to strengthen the monitoring of human society with our resources because these are the resources of the nation for the next few centuries.
