ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-10.u1	September 2nd. received such a written message: Iceland's number tells: I have decreed, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet to meet on Tuesday, September 10, 2019. As soon as I publish this, at the General Assembly, everyone who has a seat is invited to come to Reykjavík for a day and then the General Assembly will be appointed after a church service at the Court's office. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. Lock into sites, September 2nd, 2019. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to assemble on Tuesday, September 10, 2019 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. Fine generals. I'd like to welcome you to the council and wish you good luck in difficult jobs. May the great minds of this nation be desolated to show reasonableness, tact, and tact in human relations, respect differing opinions and viewpoints, but also stand firm for your own convictions and hold up your own cause in the service of the people. This will no doubt be the case in this hall. There would be no news, though. That's what he's made for. Differences mark a powerful council and a powerful society. His name is the sound of the narrow - minded and oppressive force of tyrants. Optimism also prevails in a powerful society, not bitterness and bitterness, dissatisfaction, or fear. True, there are always so many things to do better, and certainly we will never know what the future holds. Tragedy can strike unannouncedly. We know this from long experience in close contact with the forces of nature. We defend our interests and continue to make our voice sound international, the voice of peace and freedom, progress, and equality. But we do not govern world affairs, we have always had an effect on the outside, and we will continue to do so. In reality, uncertainty is a different word for the future. Indeed, caution is a fine price. We can guard against the careless, careless examples, but we can also guard against the anxious, fearful, and angry ones. At times, we may have nothing to fear but fear. Fine generals. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Earlier in this century, Ingibjörg Haraldsdóttir mentioned the importance of hope in a hard world. The poet said: Since then, I remember the world being destroyed. If it wasn't the atomic bomb, it was the imperialism, Communism, AIDS, violence, capitalism, pornography, mange, drug use, the greenhouse effect, the religious persecution, the warist, the disaster, the threat of terrorism, obesity, hunger, waterlessness, the death of the tongue, the death of the poem - not to mention the vision of a future in which every Chinese home has a car, a refrigerator, and a washing machine. [...] There's always something we need, and there's still hope. Yet we are still here, and the world is still beautiful, the migratory birds are still on their strange flights, and the poets are still cultivating and feeling the joy of creation. Despite all the hatred and war, in spite of everything. Is that not true? Despite everything, should we not be courageous? And courage, what is it in this room? What is it on the world scene? At least it is not courageous if a person succumbs to the highest priority, the person who succumbs to curses rather than to reasonable opinions. Good people can also consider in what company they can end up, how moderate and delicate speech can be avoided to extremes and outbacks in other people's affairs. And before people begin to get old and take all these words to themselves, I beg you, fellow Americans and senators, to remember the wisdom that can be found in the famous song of Carly Simon, the fine singer: 'Stop this vanity,' to think they are sung about you. Yes, democracy tradition is best protected by reasoning and listening and reevaluation, not by bullying, euphemism, and prejudice. The problem, however, is: We do not live in a world of simple solutions, the absolute truths. We can admire a Bjartur í Sumarhús Houses, its persistence, and its quest for freedom. At the same time, however, his obsession with selfishness and personality disorders can be brought upon others. This is fiction, but the real world has a similar lesson about many aspects of one story. Thus, we may marvel that our hard work in the cod wars, while acknowledging that more was needed for the conquest of countries, for the development of seafood that was in our favor, and not for the damage to the importance of battles between East and West. In fact, they now seem to have come up with many estimates that our country is once again on the highway. Then there is the key to distinguishing caution from suspicion, standing firm, not fearing the outside world. There is nothing new under the sun. Few things connect us with a century more than the Allied Council of the Icelanders, founded on beautiful markets in 930, the center of society for centuries and again after home administration, sovereignty, and the final part of 1944, when Iceland became a republic of the Parliamentic government, as stated in Article 1. The Constitution, on the basis of our administration. Ásgeir Ásgeirsson was the second president of the republic, the first to be chosen as a national standing. When he first formed a council, he put it this way: At the Council, the people are hearing a war of interest and vision. The elections and divisions are the payment we pay for the execution of our fists. Needs will tell them all over the country and in all walks of life. Groups develop policies and combine them in administrative cooperation. Then comes the reality of the situation, limiting its ability. Even members of Congress without being accused and governments sometimes have to do more than seem good and something beyond expectations. In any case, all this progress and high culture is compared to that when officials called from work during the time of high-resurrection war and marched through the provinces, killing, devouring, and eating up farms in the Sturbable world. That was well said in 1952, and Ásgeir's words have been quoted ever since. That's what my predecessor used to do, e.g. at his first session in the office of President. Here, you see, older wisdom echoes, a warning not to make people or to group people contrary to the answers made by enemies. It also points out that while differences are to be endured within the council as well as at the end of a vote in this hall, the media are a hallmark of a powerful assembly and a powerful community. In other words, he is one of the lessons of the Puddlers. Let us keep in mind in this country, continue to introduce it to new generations. A few years ago, the Þórarinn man Eldjárn, son of another president, did so when he brought a short picture to the young gentlemen of the son of Snorri Sturluson. Sometimes they disputed with Órækja and his son Noori, who wrote to the Þórarinn, and then added: Then Snorri said that the Órækja was a presumptuous man who brought upon them the trouble. The órækja answered with a full voice and said that Snorri was a coward. "Same, negotiate, negotiate," said Snorri when a dispute arose. Smash, hit, hit, answered The Órækja. True, it must be acknowledged that Órækja who lived as a father was, and Snorri's last negotiations did not go as if he had chosen. But this is how the past is complicated. It does not provide simple answers. Similarly, at the same time, we show humility in our dealings. Nobody's perfect. We are all weak, excellent generals. None of us are greater than the office our people have entrusted to us. I reiterate my wishes to the senators for the well - being of the legislation of the country and nation for the benefit of it. At that rate, I'd like you to remember the foster world by rising from your seats. [[The senators rose up from their seats and prime minister, the daughter of Katrin, the daughter of Jacob, and said, Our whole president and earth. Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]] [Presidents in Schola Cantorum sang every quick step by Jón Nordal.]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-10.u2	I'll tell you what. General members and members of the General Assembly welcome the sentence of the 150th legislature. Special congratulations, I present a newly appointed minister of justice, now taking its first steps in the minister's office. As a matter of fact, the Minister of Justice Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn is second among those who have served as Ministers in Iceland, after Eysteinn son of Jónsson. I'm telling you seriously, it's a pleasure to see young people, and especially young women, begin to take on such leadership while they are still leaning on their share. In this, travel, industrial, and innovation ministers, Þórdís Kol Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, present at third place in the list of the youngest minister of history, the prime minister to the 5th and the speaker to the 6th. In other words, the three women that the youngest has accepted ministers in Iceland all in the present government. I expect to have a good and upbuilding cooperation with the new legislatures and to hope that our work will be a country and nation's advantage. I also greet the new office manager and all the staff of the Generals, and I know from long experience that they will put forth effort and do their utmost to make a success of the work here at the council. A prime committee arranged the Council's death plan for the 150th legislature in mid - August. having a traditional agreement with the government and with the heads of Congress. It was published on the Generals' Web site on September 3, September. Although the strategy is basically the same as in recent meetings, it is expected that meetings will last a few days longer until June and there will be experienced since the previous council. The Presidency Committee has decided to change the President's work order to the Board of Meetings. The change is forced to act counterlessly, not requiring changes in the council, since the President of Congress has the own authority to make an answer. The change has been made in two ways. First, there will be a member of the same category, and a speaker is not permitted to give an answer. Hence, it will be permitted only if there is a particular situation, such as the prerogative of the members of the council, or that they disagree on the matter, or that the terms of the matter are not at all divided by class lines. Second, response to repeated five - minute talks will not be allowed. As a result of these changes, the results are being brought back to the values established at the 1991 decommission. I'm thinking of making further improvements in the procedure of the council, and some of these calls for changes in the affairs of Congress. In June. So I asked for members of Congress to appoint a member of the committee to revise the mood and have already held their first meeting. I think it is very important that we finally complete a review before the end of this terms, and that improved Congress could then take effect at the beginning of the next election period. In fact, the commission is intended to discuss possible minor adjustments that could be applied immediately during this council. At the end of June, I mentioned that in view of experience, there would be a review of the standards of the people in general. In charge of the Presidency Committee, I worked with me for the changes to the chairman of the Commission and Commission and Legal Office of the Council. Then, at a meeting of the Presidency Committee in August, proposals were presented for changing protocols. I've requested a council member on the Presidency Committee that they present their members in the council, as well as that they will now be sent to the review of the European Security and Cooperation Committee and the National Committee. Giving them reviews and according to incident signals from members of the council, the matter will return to ongoing discussion on the Presidency Committee. In spring, the changes in information law were made to the force of their values now take place in the Generals administration. Although the General has so far been abated by information law, the Parliament has sought to arrange information for the public and the media in accordance with the law. However, by the adjustment of the Law, there will be clear regulations for the construction of the project in both the council and the regulations of the prime committee to be placed on the basis of them. The Presidency Committee has already discussed the rules of access to data from the General Assembly, as well as the design of a bill with a relevant change in Congress law. I expected a prime committee to set up the rules later on this month and provide the bill. A long - awaited new building will begin later this year. Earth work offers will be advertised in the days ahead, and it should begin in November. It is then assumed that there will be an invitation to work on the building itself, and a building will be advertised in the middle of the next year and aim for the beginning of the fall of 2020. End of work is scheduled in March 2023. All cost schedules are designed to maintain expenses within the financial framework. It may also be noted that yesterday at the construction of the building, volunteers were opened up and received two offers, both within the budget. This meeting will soon be postponed, and I'd like to ask the members of the council and our guests to accept the occasion in toast. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister, to take me to the front of the hall and to toast. This meeting will now be postponed until the next hour. 16th
