ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u1	At a meeting of the Commission and surveillance committee yesterday, September 16, 2019, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Hevarddóttir was elected president of the Committee and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson II, vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u2	Mr. President. I was standing in a pit last night, talking at the top of the word. Prime Minister and complained about the lack of communication by the government with the United States on transport plans. It resulted in the ultimate success. A special presentation meeting on the government's transport plans is being announced by the secretary of transportation, but it seems so enjoyable that as we are considering here the government's tax policy, two-thirds of the Council are being announced for a press conference at the same time in the Department of Transport. I wondered, " Where is respect for the council's duties if it is really expected that members of the Parliament be separated from a matter of tax policy and the government's tax case to attend a press conference? ' I feel that this is an extremely ill planning and must make a comment, for I have every intention of studying government policy on transportation, but I also have my heart to discuss the taxist of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u3	Mr. President. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir The village of Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson and suggest that the president discuss this with the government. He's at times kept her things up, including. To the assembly where he spoke of a thick political stand and such, he must be able to talk to them. Yesterday's highest claim. Prime Minister that it would never have been done more in collaboration and opposition. It's just not true, and it sucks that there's a panic plot of road plans in the capital area at the same time that we're going to be discussing here the basic aspects of income tax change, child support, bank tax deduction, and other things. I propose that the president speak to the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u4	A respectable president. I'll take my mind off this. I had signed up for this statement by a travel minister, but since I was also going to a Senate hall, I see that I can't be in two places at once. So I will not attend a travel minister, and I felt completely ridiculous when I saw that this was set at exactly that time. I ask: Was it a coincidence or what? Since the government must have known that this was the case today, it should not be put at the same time as a presentation in the important language that is a traffic jam in the city of Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u5	President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Víglundsson's Þorsteinn stone that it is highly unnatural to have all members of the capital area present at hand. 15 today at the same time as here is the time of a meeting and a discussion of the government's tax policy. A senator rightly pointed out. There are two factors in my situation, either to postpone the meeting that the secretary of transportation has announced, for of course the members of the capital area want to attend that meeting, or to interrupt meetings during that meeting. There's nothing else in the situation. It's unnatural to do this in this way, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u6	Mr. President. I agree with the speakers who came to the puzzle before me. There's no doubt about it. No matter where we stand, we all want to do the right thing. We want to work together. It is as if the government is not well acquainted with the Council program. It was a two-hour lunch break. Two days this week is not a meeting tomorrow and Friday. Why on earth can the government not plan more and more in cooperation with and with respect to the Allied Council? It seems to me that the government needs in these matters, like many others, a specific help or assistance, whether on transportation or elsewhere. Perhaps it is the case, that the government is trying to keep as many members of the council away from the tax talk to hide that it is getting a bit complicated and making the tax system impossible. [[Take it up, think of turning down...]] Why interfere with the tax system and raise taxes even as well? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] There is a subsequent meeting in the Ministry that goes out to raise taxes on the southwest corner. [[The president calls.]] Are we being fired by members of the southwest corner from the council during the time? I'm asking why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u7	The president proposes that the tax issues will be discussed when they are on the program below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u8	Why is there no way to discuss them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u9	It would hardly be necessary for the President to get involved in a material discussion about taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u10	I want it written...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u11	The President is not talking with members of Congress. The president says what he wants to say, and members of Congress are listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u12	There's freedom of speech at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u13	President. I was just going to be a subject, as usual, and join others in the state of government, but I have to admit that when I see a president perform this kind of thing, it's a little too difficult for me. It is repeated in telling us how and where to express ourselves in this chamber, and how to do so is intolerable. I already got it out of the way. I'm sure there's a delay in a meeting with the secretary of transportation and a discussion of transportation in the capital area. I'm so used to this kaossi, there's never any preparation, you never know what's going on at this place. You're almost back together, and I'm just glad people stood up here and said, "Here and no more. " We want an organization on this. We want a break in order to be able to participate in two very important discussions, which, of course, should not be at the same time. I'm sure it's a matter of time for the president to meet us and arrange this so that we can participate in both discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u14	The president had not yet arrived to hear, would listen to members of the council, and then express themselves on what they have had to say. It just so happens that the President agrees completely. It's impossible for the Ministry to order a large percentage of the members of Congress to meet at the meeting, and that's what I'm going to make comments. True, it is not against the entire government. If you have just noticed, it is one minister who has invited a group of members of the council to a meeting at the council meeting, and that is not good. Of course, that does not prevent a number of situations from being stumbled, such as. a large #metoo conference starting at this time. 2:30, where many members of the Parliament would no doubt like to be. However, it is different with international conferences or in cooperation with more people than where the Council itself does not seem to notice that there is a work programme in force at the General Assembly. It doesn't make any difference that the president makes comments that he doesn't have language when he makes his point. There is nothing wrong with making comments about the subject being discussed, for example. the tax issues below, under the completion of the President's conference board. It's only natural that the president grants that material. It is only natural for members of Parliament to handle the job of the Senate or to make comments that can be applied to a meeting government of the council, but there is no room for tax discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u15	Mr. President. I come here to agree with those who have expressed themselves about the arrangement that we are offered and to ask for the guidance of the President of the whole General Assembly, not just the president of the United States, but the president of the whole Council, and ask: In the person who stands here to fulfill his duties as it stands in the council and to attend a meeting to discuss the government's tax policy or the one present with other members who have been called to the Supreme Assembly. A secretary of transportation to introduce the government's transport program, received a presentation last week, to attend the meeting that the government is giving us at the same time? We need guidance on this matter because it is expected that we will be in two places at the same time at work. That doesn't mean that it's the highest. The prime minister will discuss the matter with us tomorrow because this is happening in 16 minutes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u16	If the president had just noticed, all members of the capital area are being invited to a meeting, which includes both Reykjavík and the Southwestern district. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Of course, there are more than half of the members of Congress, and it does not work that such meetings take place, so I will send a message and request that this meeting be delivered. [[Upwards: 35.]] [[...advanced transport committee.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u17	Mr. President. It is for reasons to make a comment about why all members of the council are not invited to this meeting. This is the capital of the country where 80% of the population lives. Of course, it's not just the interests of capital citizens, it's about our best interests in the country, that there's a good traffic issue here. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, I thought it was not unusual for her to go to just the material of the subject because it would like to discuss tax issues on two fronts, on the other hand, traffic charges, and on the other hand, general tax returns here. I am grateful to the highest degree. A president for making comments on this, but if he was smart, he'd agree with it. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, delayed a meeting until this traffic meeting is finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u18	No, President doesn't. This program is long arranged, and the General does not allow others to stir it up. It is others who bring meetings that include them in the Generals program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u19	Mr. President. Sadly, this cannot be harmonized, but of course we will also share these comments with ministers. At the same time, I'd like to underline it - and I hope that I have freedom of speech in this chair and that I am protected from the prominent members of the Council so that I can answer them materially, I hope I may defend my freedom of speech here - that is, of course, a subject of thought. We're in the first days of the council, a new council, we put it last week, and we already have a collision. It is as if the Commission intends to control the legislature authority in their jobs, and it does not work at all. At the same time, I'd especially like to rejoice that the president is planning to take this case, and I hope he does so on the grounds of the council, not on the grounds that he is a sponsor of the government, which seems to be associating with the council lightly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u20	The president will avoid repeated attempts to make this claim, in a mild way, that the president is biased in his work. They use the wording it chooses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u21	Mr. President. I'm going to agree that it's unfortunate, to say the least, that this meeting in the Ministry is being announced at the time of this important discussion. However, I was going to give my highest commendation. President. There's been some comments from what happened here. Councilmen of the government. The president of the Allied Council of Iceland has made these comments. V.E.G. The president has promised to deliver these messages to the highest authority. Minister, this will not work. V.E.G. The president has explained why it is then that more than half of the members of Congress are being proclaimed away. In other words, the president has come to me, that I have heard all the legitimate comments of the day. Senators of the government opposition. So I'm just going to give the highest commendation. The U.S. President of the Generals for responding this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u22	One is long to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u23	A respectable president. It's good to know that the president has a good team here in the hall who pick up his glove for him, although I feel that he is fully capable of doing so himself. Thank you very much. The president for taking over this lawsuit, and I trust it will be directed to the highest level. A secretary of transportation to postpone meetings'time when it is possible for members of Congress to attend. It is irreverent in the activities of the Parliament that a large part of the Parliament's campaign is being carried out to meet a meeting that has been called on at the same time as a meeting meeting on important matters of government. I suppose the highest. A secretary of transportation has been conscious that both a meeting was under way and what should be discussed here at the same time. But I thank the President for his good response, and I trust he will take the initiative to postpone the development of a transport minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u24	The first vice president has an opportunity for President to deliver messages to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u25	A respectable president. Today, in the Harpa three days international convention of #methoo under the heading '-Mounting Forward', or # I like: let's move on. More than 800 persons are enrolled and about 80 lectures from a series of instructors, akvistas, politicians, and experts. Today, two years have passed since the revolution began in community media, when women around the world reported sexual harassment and violence that people had long ignored, ignored, or silenced. In Iceland, women presented a political challenge to the politics under the ensignment of the # Obscurus, followed by various groups of women. There, sexual harassment and violence were exposed in all professions, in all age groups, and in all parts of the country. It is truly a social ill. According to a recent study, things have changed, but many things have not been done. Business policy has been made that harassment and harassment are not tolerated, and procedures have been clearly explained. Professionals, research, and seminars have been consulted at work. The political groups set up a cooperative site and have held educational and collective conferences. The discussion of sexual harassment and violence is more open, and stories are rather religious. The latest example is from the National Church for improving the handling of such cases and for those with resistance. While the discussion is being held, and that must be done, it is not merely an incentive to act out and return the shame but to improve the work done on a solution and set clear guidelines for communication. The purpose of this discussion is to continue changing society and reduce the number of bacteria that do not respect boundaries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u26	President. Recently, Iceland's Haggis published a fine work analysis and how the trend has been there in recent years. The positive effects of this analysis, although we are temporarily dealing with the work market recession, are from the year of collapse, 2008, the number of jobs at the labour market has increased by 30,000. Of course, it reflects the energy that has been in the economy at this time. What worries me, however, is that at the same time, many people in the imaginations have been completely replaced. These are the sectors that we are eager to talk about in this hall to give us a future. We regularly talk about the fourth industrial revolution and all the opportunities it holds, but over a decade, nothing has happened in this sector with us. There are also signs when we watch the exports of mental intelligence. In the same way, they have been more and less active for over a decade. It is clear what the problem is, that it is the instability that this industry creates. Perhaps we should listen to the article itself, including A fine head of these companies, Hjálmar Gíslason, who spoke of it at a business breakfast meeting in our company that perhaps we should stop censoring ourselves as we speak of competitive positions and conditions that may be especially acceptable to commercial and professional life. It particularly shows that a business venture in which I would say that because of the great impact of seabeds and other factors opposed to the uptake of a useful currency in this country, this important matter would have been completely silenced. It must be a concern for government, Congress, and the rest of the economy when an equally important industry has completely stopped for a decade. It's a lost decade of vision, and I think we must carefully examine what causes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u27	The President allows to intervene in the discussion and inform us that the earlier planned meeting of transport with members of the capital area has been postponed for some time at a time in advance when another and a more favorable time will be sought. All of them will be able to experience joy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u28	Mr. President. Yesterday a report on economic issues was presented in Iceland, which was returned to OECD. There are various grasses, but I would like to make a special discussion of what is said about public infrastructure and public investments. It points out that there is a need for more effective management when making decisions about public investments, how to follow them, how to monitor them, and how to make sure that they produce the desired results. In particular, there are two examples, one by name, a Cave tunnel, and an ongoing building, a renewal of the Land Hospital. I mention this because in April 2018, the Council agreed to agree in a counter-election proposal that dealt exactly with the guarantee of quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of public investments. There the minister of finance is expected to provide suggestions on how to improve before November 1, 2018. So it's going to be a year since that alone case came out. I have not seen that any job has been returned, any committee has started. I think it's really serious because there's so much here to do. We may be. starting a large period of performance. At least it is. We're discussing large transport improvements in many parts of the country, and it's very important that there's a regular procedure to ensure the best use of funds. [[The president calls.]] There's no rule today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u29	A respectable president. I spoke in question class last night at the highest level. Department of Health for Emergency Emergency Hospital It is clear in the mind of the minister and all of us that there is a problem, a great crisis, and a lack of people as well as time. There is a possibility that it will take time to complete the construction of a new hospital that in the future will ensure a normal flow of patients but now we're standing about 40 space at the Land Hospital, mainly because of a lack of nurses. A respectable president. In time, we can be more attractive in caring for our health - care providers. Today, it is our job to respond promptly, to shorten the reception time of the emergency department from 22 hours to the widespread international event for 6◯8 hours, which requires staff. The situation needs to be improved as much as possible, and the number of employees will need to be increased. We need dozens, even 100 nurses, to do this properly until the situation is fully improved. We need to call out to the nurses and hospital staff who have gone to other jobs, and that is what we do only by making the work environment and the reward more attractive than they have been. This can't stand waiting. Despite billions of years from year to year, the shoe goes into the business of the health system. The emergency room is now in crisis and must be resolved immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u30	A respectable president. During the past few days and weeks, the office of the State Marshal has been very much in the discussion, and it seems to be an individual. It is important to examine the matter from all sides with the goal of building trust within the police and its districts. The Police District is nine national bison. The examples vary in size and population. For example, the North African Precinct has 1,3300 km2 with over 30,000 inhabitants. Naturally, most police work in the capital area where most residents live, but the area is less large than the size of the country's inhabitants. The work of police officers in the country differs considerably from that of police in their capital area. According to them, the governor's understanding of the diversity that the work has to offer at one time is seriously lacking. As one nice policeman said, with president's permission: The boss only watches statistics. The use of vehicles is one of the key elements involved in the implementation of law enforcement in the country. In view of this, it is safe to say that this matter is worthy of reevaluation. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has decided to shut down the U.S. Marshal's parking center in the present picture. A team has been appointed to consider future prospects for police services across the country. The Marshal has run the police parking center and is responsible for the maintenance, maintenance, and renewal of all police vehicles along with all equipment, but the police authorities have rented the cars from the state police authorities. A respectable president. Now I trust the Minister of Justice. Reexamination is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u31	A respectable president. Economic and quality of life in Iceland are high, and this is made clear in all international indicators. Yet, living things are so wrong here as in other parts of the world. Over the years, we have focused on economic growth and GDP as a measure of society's mechanism of action. In spite of the importance of these criteria, it is conclusive that quality of life will not be measured solely. There are other factors that affect people's everyday lives, such as health, housing, employment, education, income, air quality, and water quality, to name something. The Government Treaty required setting up a transnational group on the development of a good quality of life. It should, in turn, make it easier for governments to monitor the trend and change in society and to support policy development and decision making. I took part in that work, and the group has now produced a report that may even have been published. We had a meeting yesterday. We hope the report will benefit from further development of the indicators and have set up a range of 39 measures in three groups, i.e. Social, economic and environmental factors. We even examined. public opinion of factors relevant to the quality of life itself as well as the characteristics of a good society. We asked those questions first, but they also had a high level of communication, housing, education, and recreation. In some areas, we lack real standards, especially in the environmental dimension. But because I have had much medical discussions, I would like to mention one example that struck me at that job. It is that although women can expect to live longer in Iceland than men, men can expect to have more years of good health. According to recent measurements of quality of life since 2015, women who were born that year can expect to have 66.2 years, while men 71.5 years for good health, even though life spans indicate otherwise. [[The president calls.]] This is one example that should make us reflect on what we need to do in health matters to improve the interests of both sexes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u32	A respectable president. Last year, reports of an increase in the number of armed calls by the Special Forces. This was followed by a query from what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. Recent reports from a governor I'm not going to list here are just enough to talk about. It is commonplace for police to threaten unfounded transfers to people at the station if they do not agree on physical and occasional news of the misuse of sensitive personal information, which is expected to improve over time after better personal protection laws. More important, reports on police surveillance indicate that more monitoring is needed. Officers want trust, police officers want the frame clear, police officers want to support their duties, at least the officers I've talked to, and even police officers who have spoken at the council and have written articles about it. At one time, the Pirantars proposed a Synod resolution proposal for independent surveillance of police work and practices. We waited to reexamine it when a police surveillance committee was set up because we wanted to see how the experience with that committee would be experienced. Now, we have the experience, two annual reports, and we believe that more recent news transfers as well as reports from the ideal committee that need an independent agency to monitor police activities and practices. So we're going to ask the case again, and in fact, we've submitted this council resolution, which I hope will be considered here on Thursday. I wanted to come up here and advertise it a little, but also to emphasize at first that it is not an error in itself against police officers. Police are ordinary people who do a certain job with all their advantages and weaknesses and monitor the only system in the country that can be exercised physical authority is a question of how we want our infrastructure, how we want to keep the box around the important agency that the police are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u33	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying something. paritaprevir Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson earlier. Early in the Senate Hall, my request for a special discussion on emergency hospital problems, especially because of a serious situation in the hospital emergency department, was asked. The discussion made it clear that there was a major initiative in the construction of nurses within a few months, who were going to make a complete change of the situation, along with the opening of a hospital hotel. We members of the Central Party did not vote for health policy at the highest rate. A minister who was approved at the last assembly, where much of the policy is concerned with land hospital operations, activities that now seem to be in trouble, as recent reports show. There's been talk of a need for control over the hospital, so I agree. I also say that even emergency control is needed. It is a question of whether it is right to have a local hospital as a $200,000 person under the same roof as a national hospital that takes care of the whole country, but the first step, the first thing to take, is to recognize the problem and to admit that raising money to the hospital is not doing much good at this time. In addition, money should be increased to others in the medical field.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u34	A respectable president. When saving the current government from medical expenses, in the system, by e.g. lie down so low in saving urine catheters for people in wheelchairs, which can cause infections, blood poisoning, and even kidney failure, are far removed. There is a continuing severe medication shortage and tilting at the Land Hospital. The ER is so weak that it has become intensive care by means of an analysis that it can break down on both hopes thereafter. At the same time that there is a more serious situation, and surgery in the health system is expanding. Monitoring agencies are ten times over the budget. The Media Committee had 10 million 2008, a budget of 2018, with 56 million. From 2018●2020 it is to go from 56 million to nearly 500 million. Since 2010, monitoring agencies have increased by nearly 9 billion or from 12 billion to about 20 billion. At the same time, the government is upset with the physical training system, which is necessary because weak people need physical therapy. Note that at the same time that the booth is expanding by billions, the current government finds exactly the ones to be saved by, saving urine for people in wheelchairs. Is it possible to lower? And assault the health system, physical therapy. What is the effect of attacking the physical therapy? Yes, it will have the effect that there will be more people who need to go to the hospitals and block the system even more. Is that our view of the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u35	President. I'm gonna have a word with what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, would like to start by thanking him very much for granting that request. Hv. A senator discussed the matter in the discussion of the debate of the prime minister's need for reason, especially when it comes to politics, how important it is that we base our stand on science. There's been a considerable discussion of global warming, the climate problem, or what we call it. A lot of people agree on that subject. I'd like to mention the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the World Bank, the World Bank, the World Bank, the United Nations Economic and Social Services Office, the EU Environment Agency on Weather Predictions, the European Environment Agency, the Asian Investors Bank, England Bank, the International Committee on Climate Change, the National Weather Office of Iceland. This is by no means an inexhaustible list, but all these institutions and scientists have warned of human warming and have encouraged us to respond. I'd like to ask you what. Senator two questions. Counts 'em out. A senator that speeds up human climate change is a fact, or does he disagree with all the above scientists? What does that count? A senator's job is to cope with climate change, if he agrees that it exists?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u36	Madam President. There's a reason to thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to discuss this important subject, one of the biggest subjects we are facing, not just in Iceland, but in the whole world, climate change, environmental issues, and how we respond best to them. So I wind in answering questions of some kind. I believe then that increasing greenhouse gas emissions, carbon dioxide, and other gases will affect climate and contribute to global warming. Since we prefer to have the earth relatively much as it has been while we humans have stayed there, we want to adjust it to warm and warm. Secondly, I think, so I'll answer the second question which. A senator, who is very important to respond for this reason, but he reiterates what I've said before, that it will be done only by the fact and science, not by showyness. That's what I've made comments about the environment and on climate matters, especially, that I feel that the reaction is all too much on virtualism, action that is not in order to have a real effect. I mention, for example, what seems to be the main reaction in Iceland, to shovel in a ditch, which I can see no better than to be able to have the opposite effect with the increased emissions of methadone, 23 times more effective greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. It would be better to grow a tree on this tube. All of this is about the ability to operate, according to the size of the problem. That's why it was nice to hear it. A senator refers, for example. in the United Nations and the World Development Organization, for in recent days, I have given much attention to the secretary - general of the International Development Organization, which has just pointed out these same things. [[The president calls.]] We must approach it based on science and facts, not on fear or fear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u37	Madam President. I'd kind of like to take part in the discussion that was going on here, but I'm just going to talk about the job. In recent years the number of so - called secondary committees has increased greatly, both by the council and by the government as members of the Parliament. The work of these committees is an important way for representatives of the National Committee to reach an important job, sometimes even a small business, that may not be done or may at times be done in less democratic ways. This development, I'm celebrating. The increase has created a time pressure at a council that is not bigger than this and especially competition for the few hours of the week that do not depend on regular committees or meetings. We saw examples of this just a few minutes ago. These secondary committees and international committees are essential, but it is also necessary that they do not interfere with other important matters of Congress. I wondered, " Is it not necessary to make more space and even permanent space in the council program for the work of both secondary committees and international committees, but not merely to hope that all of this will fit just before noon on Wednesdays and maybe Tuesdays and then all Fridays? ' It may also be appropriate to mention the importance of those who also have time to go out to the community and talk to people but who are not always here at Quosina. A great deal of talk has been made that the Council deals with matters longer than with any other Assembly. I say no more because, elsewhere, the process is simply different, even more efficient, it is usually emphasised on the work of members of the Parliament at the expense of a so-called ◯pleriny conference, by permission of a president, i.e. A full conference. I mention this as a personal introduction to future employment in the mood changes in the state of Congress, hoping that efficiency will be enhanced. It's kind of a suggestion that we speak less and work more that I don't know how well we're gonna get. Of course, I don't want to limit the freedom of speech from members of Congress, but maybe we can create some kind of culture that reduces the need for expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u38	Madam President. I'd like to make a conversation between climate and human rights today, perhaps especially as the vice president of the European Parliament, one of the most powerful international agencies involved in Iceland's human rights, where climate is becoming more prominent members of Congress. Yesterday, the Amnesty International Greunberg and the Climate Race of Friday'sForFourFuture provided a prize for the tremendous important work they've done in just one year to draw attention to and demand that more radical public action be needed to prevent an even greater temperature of the climate. Yesterday in Iceland, at the same time, Iceland's Department of Amnesty received a prize for their radical action against disaster. I sincerely congratulate all of them on the prize and encouragement. This award for major international human rights organizations shows that climate change is closely related to human rights and the fight for them. Michelle Bachelet, director of the United Nations rights and director of the United Nations Human Rights Council, discussed the very close link between climate change and human rights in its opening work at a meeting of the Council of Human Rights over a week ago. There, Bachelet claimed that the climate threat had become the greatest threat to human rights in many parts of the world and one of the greatest sources of civil war and conflict, the indigenous rights to life and food for food were threatened by forest fires in Amazon forests and the melting of Arctic ice. Environmental concerns need to be faced with threats and even attacks, especially in South America, and public talk that humiliates young people who worry about climate, their future, and future generations have become more common. An increasing number of hurricanes and storms, such as what happened in the Bahamas, will not only kill residents but force them to flee their homes. It's also a fact with the vast Sahel area of Africa. The political thing we need to deal with that crisis is not there today, Greta Thunberg said. That is why each of us must exert pressure on those who bear the responsibility from all available places and cause people to respond. Let's take this to heart, sometimes politics, who handle the crisis and support the demands of young fighters for more drastic measures to prevent further climate change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u39	Madam President. In Iceland it is estimated that some 20,000 people suffer from depression. Of these, the depression of older citizens is a special problem. The problem is in that, to some extent, it is hidden and unidentified. It is estimated that up to half the proportion of older citizens exhibit symptoms of depression than in the general population. Loss of mates after long marriages, loneliness, effortlessness, immobilisation, loss of independence, existence, financial worries, social isolation, and even life - style can be a more important cause in older cities than in other populations. Depression can be a life - threatening disease but is often cured. Then depression is one of the largest risk factors for suicide. Therefore, it is important to examine the incidence of suicide and suicide attempts by older citizens, but this should, of course, be approached with great caution and sensitivity. However, Madam President, in recent years the suicide rates of older citizens have increased. However, the depression of older citizens has not been investigated properly in this country, and we in the United States have now made a suggestion here at a council to remedy this situation. Tests and measures are needed. Madam President. Clearly, older citizens' depression and their distress affect not only that group but also all their family and family members. I think that getting a case is more important for the council to unite and agree. Depression and loneliness are not expected to be normal consequences of aging. Politicalism is especially about how we feel.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u40	A respectable president. Like a snooze. Haraldsdóttir I'm going to move some words to a report on the benefits and quality of life that was presented yesterday, but I and the senator were privileged to sit both in the work force that won that work. It may first be said that this is a long time period of time, and it is seen in the reactions the report receives in which people of all political colors agree that economic growth and production are an enormously imperfect instrument to bear up the government's business if we are to appreciate its benefits. This is the highest room here. A financial minister who emphasized this social change at a conference yesterday, where these standards were introduced. You see, although economic growth may be increasing in the community, even though domestic production can be at the highest, e.g. The number of people who refuse medical care is increasing, inequities may be increasing in the community, long weeks of work may afflict a large number of people. These standards are among those we recommend on a level that is much more important to the government's policy to show that society is expanding in the right direction for all of us. I encourage senators to learn about this, but I would like to mention two things that made me a bit of this job. First of all, there has been a lack of information that is regularly updated in two fundamental areas, on the part of work and privacy, and on the other hand on environmental issues. There we don't have enough time-consuming to access such a level as I would like to see. This is something you are working on and will be working on, and it is very important. Second, what we have been able to do in this report is to link consumption not only to the alleged positive economic growth but also to the environment because it is simply a matter of freeness of economic interest to the disaster we are facing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we are to master a disaster, we need to do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u41	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for 2020. The bill suggests a change of several laws according to the criteria of a bill for the budget of 2020. The details of the bill are of many ways and both impact on the income and the pay side of the budget. I will now discuss some details of the most important things, but the review is not necessarily in the order that is found in the bill. First of all, the price of a centenarian tax update is paid and paid. The bill contains suggestions for a 2.5% rise in the so - called Cronian Catlets in line with the prices of the budgetary bill. At that time, the estimated 12 month change in the index of consumer prices is over 2019. This is 3.4%, based on Economic Standards. However, a greater than 2.5% of Iceland's FREE price target is not expected to be expected, but this is to consider that a statement was made on the basis of the biographer agreements that cost would not be raised unless the cost of inflation was met. What's underneath here? Here is a charge under oil, a general and a special charge for fuel, a special mile tax, a car charge, a fee of alcohol and tobacco, a fee for the elderly and a special price for the state radio. This increase is expected to result in a total total of 1.4 billion dollars. Yearly including side effects on cost taxes, i.e. Part of that amount is due to the side effects. The impact on the index price of consumer prices is estimated to be small, 0.07%, with an increase in radio charge and charge in the elderly's labour fund not included, but these charges do not affect the index of consumer prices. Second of all, tax records are due to the financial cost. The bill suggests changes in the share of monitoring costs according to the law on paying costs to official financial monitoring. These changes reflect a targeted check account of a total of 2,330 billion. K. The total budget of the UN is expected to be 2,479 million. K. and other income 42 billion. K. This is how the Agency's total budget will be estimated to be 96 million. K. and will be brought to the drop of the Agency's own money. The changes taken into account by the Management Board's management plan are expected not to affect the survival of the State Fund. Third, payment is paid on the charge of a credit agent. It is suggested that the current rate of cost on the charge of a credit agent will be 0.00737%, which is reduced from this year on. The Act on Payment stipulates taking into account the management or management loss of the function of an agent's agent to determine the amount of pay for the next calendar year. The innuendo income of the cost is estimated to be 286 billion. K. in 2020. Fourth, there is a price to pay for the elderly and the radio fee. So it is suggested that a 2.5% increase in cost to the elderly, in line with the prices of the budget proposal for 2020 and the previous published resolution I have referred to. According to this, the price will be 11,740 k. to each currency at the pressures of public pay in 2020 due to income in 2019. It is estimated that the increase will give the State budget 65 million. K. in addition. At the same time, it is assumed that a special price for State Radio will be raised from 17,500 dollars. At 17,900. In line with the policy set here. The estimated additional income of the increase is about 120 million. K. every year. Fifth, it is the cost of nursing and the expense of the household. It is proposed for temporary purposes in the law on the affairs of the elderly. Is it to prevent the increase in the cost of domestic activities in nursing homes and nursing homes from being removed from the spouse's income? It is also suggested that temporary legal requirements be extended. This means that money must be protected from the elderly's management fund to cover the cost of nursing by 2020. If the bill is legal, the government budget will increase by 200 billion. K. from what else would have been the result of those decisions. 6th, the interaction between the micropower markets is social security and pension funds. The bill suggests an extension of temporary provisions to help prevent the interactions between the social and biofuel disability policy-making process in 2020. It is then assumed that in 2020 and this year the sum of the money paid on a income pensioner's income insurance and household support will be the same. Free income is now 1,315.200. every year equivalent to 109,600 k. per month. If this does not extend, the default share of biofuels for employment will decline from 1,315,200 k. This year at 300,000 dollars. and would reduce improvement in the disability and rehabilitatement of pension patients who have a job income over the holiday target. In other words, we are supporting more with these groups, since if this law is not extended, expenses would decrease by 1 billion dollars. in 2020. Fourth, an extension of temporary legal requirements for employment reimbursement and the activities of labour responsored funds and insurance laws requiring that reimburse funds are not made by the general insurance fees in 2020. A similar law has been applied for 2013 in the year 192019. However, the current budget remains to be estimated by the employment and pension funds of 0.10%. At the same time, it is assumed that agreements between financial and economic ministers and social and child - care ministers on the part of the Agency will be made in agreement and that in the next year, the state fund will provide a budget for reimbursement of funds. Eight, it's the parish fees. The cost of fixed charges is expected to increase from 925 k. per month according to current law at 930k. by 2020, about 5 k. The law's contribution to the parishes of the Church and other religions usually changes according to an estimated change in the average taxation product of individuals 16 years of age and older, as well as an increasing number of individuals. However, as in budget 2019, it is now expected to secure the money of parishes. The budget bill expects a total of 3,286 million. K. The contribution to the terms of application fees should be taken into account in terms of the general terms of the bill and therefore accounts for a total increase in the budget of 2019 13.7 million. K. Nine are related greenhouse gas emissions and recycling costs. It is assumed that the amount of emissions would be increased from 1,256 k by the ton of related emissions. of 3,025 k. meets the change in the average price of emissions in the European Economic Area as it is during the year that ends on July 31 of the previous year. In addition, changes in vehicle processing fees, plastic stores, hay-plastics, oil products, paints, colours of printing, defenses and electronics are provided. These changes are expected to have a negligible impact on the income of the state funds. In terms of growth reform, it is suggested that provisional rules of calculation for interest reform will be extended one more year, meaning that the system's calculators and guidelines will be the same in the next year as they were this year. On the basis of these forewords, costs for interest are estimated to be 3.4 billion. in 2020. 11thly, the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases and the tax on public and inactive waste is available. The bill suggests that new taxes will be taken, on the one hand, from fluorinated greenhouse gases transported to the country and from the spread of public waste and from decommissioned waste, called green taxes. The aim of this is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions so that governments can meet their commitments to climate and achieve the goals of noncarbonization in the year 2040. This taxation is new. In other lands, it has been introduced and made successful. It can do so within a short period of time if solidarity is reached in this material, and here the key is that options for other inhibitory greenhouse gases are to cool down and to grow. If I begin to deal only with fluorinated greenhouse gases, I'd like to know that the gases that have been exported to the country are among them. used as a cooling agent in the industrial cooling system. It is suggested that taxes be placed only on the gases themselves and chemical mixtures that contain them rather than on products or equipment requiring such gases. It is suggested that 2500 dollars be laid. per kilogram of fluoroy greenhouse gases for each ton of carbon dioxide equivalents, defined as a stimulus of 10,000 k. per kilogram. This is similar to the approach used in Denmark. In this bill it is estimated that while the change is taking place, income will pay off the tax and be able to study up to 600 million. K. This year, however, as a result of a reduction in the market of both taxes and other measures to reduce their use, it is clear that income will decrease and hopefully disappear. Regarding the price of public and inactive waste, it is proper to make good comments received from the local government level by the direction of the box presented in the summer months. I would expect the committee to consider the observations made there, but from the level of local government, there was an idea that the level of government would receive this measures but also worry about too rapid induction, but we assume that the introduction will be step by step. So here it is suggested that taxes be placed on the price of public waste and deforestation, but direct greenhouse gas emissions from waste management are largely caused by waste management. It is suggested that the tax will be paid at 15 K. per kilogram of total waste except for inactive waste and 0.5 kr. per kilogram of contaminated waste. Based on the latest figures on the quantity and composition of waste, it is assumed that the tax could initially provide up to 1 billion, but that amount would naturally decline if more results were to be achieved. It is estimated that about 40% of waste is derived from homes but about 60% from companies. As a result, considerable effort is needed to secure the situation, welcome, and participation of the households in further categories. Since there have been considerable targets for mitigation, it has to be expected that income will fall together each year, just as I used to trace earlier. This tax is designed to support these enormous goals. As I traced earlier, it is assumed that temporary arrangements will be made that in 2020, next year, the tax will only be introduced in half half the time, i.e. to pay only half the amount of tax laid down in the regulations of fluorinated greenhouse gases and because of the incidence of overall decomposition. This suggests that in 2021 the total tax will be paid according to the regulations of the law. It is therefore assumed that the use of new green taxes will increase income, as I have explained, about up to 1.5 billion next year and possibly about 1 additional billion in 2021 but it is not good to predict exactly how fast this income will decrease, in other words, we do not know exactly what the results of this action will be. I expect the Committee will want to have a conversation with stakeholders in this subject, including evaluate how well we are equipped to introduce this change as quickly as this one would expect. When all of this is summed up, you can note that the suggestions I have been using here are of many ways. The same can be said of the effects, they vary in resources, prices, and riches. The increase in radio charge and cost to the elderly is a total of 185 million. K. but there is no effect on the index of consumer prices, as I used to trace. The prices will increase income by 1.4 billion and will be responsible for the impact I have mentioned, 0.07%, on the index price of consumer consumption. We assume that the green taxes will temporarily increase income, as I have been doing here, and then there are unchanged criteria for growth reform that affect expenses for growth reform as well as I have considered. Other changes may affect either the income and/or the remuneration gate, but the combined effect of this change is considered to be negligible on the second part of the bill, but I have particular traced here. According to this, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u42	Mr. President. It's an interesting bill, and it's a little bit about how far we're going to finance public service with tax and services. But in view of the fact that one of the joints of this bill is involved in the interaction of the disability payments of public security and pension funds, where the so-called cross-react of the bill is being prevented, I would like to ask the highest level. Secretary of finance for further plans for the execution of a so - called crown versus a dollar on micropair. I can't see in the bill or in the new financial release program that it's financed. Since this is being discussed in an indirect way, I'd like to call for the minister's comments on whether or not there is still a standing to eliminate that defect in the case of micromath. And how's the top? Ministers to finance it, if this is not expected in financial planning on the other hand and the financial bill we are discussing in the winter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u43	A respectable president. As the Minister of Social Affairs has announced, the funding guaranteed by the Social Security System in long-term programme will also be proposed. Helps to receive a crown as he has proclaimed it. Other than that, I would say it's unfortunate to be working year after year on temporary regulations such as we are discussing in connection with the interaction. We need to extend the global re-evaluation of the disability reform system so that there will be less temporary regulations and we will reach a country with a review of reductions such as the one mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u44	Mr. President. Looks like a budget bill and an all-time bandworm. Minister only assumed more than 1 billion to meet the wishes and natural requirements of disability. The cost of decommissioning a dollar to a dollar has been estimated to be about a hundred and twenty - five billion, so the account does not quite work out. We set here a five - year plan that doesn't make up the money. We expect a financial bill, which also does not expect these funds, so again I wonder: Do desperate individuals need another year to wait for their legitimate demands and again and again to wait for political parties who have all promised not to take away this delinquency, to finance their suspension? I agree with that word. Ministers here need to complete a full reexamination, but the desperate, some 21,000, these battles in the entire district, have grown weary of waiting for this step to be fully taken. Of course, if we are to do so, we need to make sure that we do so. [[The president calls.]] And 1 billion will do the dose in the case of a 10 indiscriminate rate of 15 billion. costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u45	A respectable president. Now I'm not a spokesman for a dollar in particular. But I need to remember how this matter is being brought to a close. It was the highest. former prime minister and chairman of the United States, who made legal arrangements for the special progressives that were especially directed to those who had nothing other than combated social security benefits. It was an inexpensive part of the operation to introduce a crown to a dollar's degree. For every cent that people had on a job income, pension income, capital pay, other income, it was taken from them the cost of living. This is a system established by the Conspiracy. Of course, when talking about taking a cent back from the loan, one must ask: Should a special supply be dropped, as originally planned or not? That is what has delayed the review of this case. We've been meaning to bring the special extension into the global improvement system of social security, and this has called for an overall review. Refusing a cent against a dollar does not necessarily mean that a person is going to have a special extension without any impairment. Then it would have all come to mind, and we would have brought something completely different from what the former chairman of the Controversy was instigating. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u46	President. Thank you very much. Minister over the tour. A minister may agree that it is appropriate to accept all the preliminary rules being there and to be extended. It seems that the most permanent provisions in our tax laws are all sorts of provisional regulations that we are so extending from year to year. But what I wanted to ask the highest. However, there is something not to be found in this bandormi, which is a income plan of more than 3 billion, on the other hand, on the increase in traffic pay and on the other hand, the increase in cost of travel paid on a budget-based budget. It is expected that the additional pay will be paid to tourists at 2.5 billion and more traffic expenditures, over a quarter of the increase in goods and fuel costs, up to 900 million. Today, there are repeated rates of excessive tax changes and therefore, it is very difficult for e.g. The job life adapts to a changed reality. In view of the fact that there is still no longer any suggestions on how to make these tax changes, I ask: Is it a requirement to withdraw them, or do we expect to expect to be added to them later? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u47	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that of all the more than 900 billion of our financial programs, we try to do our best in conversation with the council to break down, even to hundreds of millions and possibly smaller sums, even to tens of millions, exactly what is the basis behind the total number. It is true that in recent years, a financial program has assumed that some sort of application of come-or-exchanges, or some other implementation, as we only touch in the Treaty, would come on the income side and that is one of the underlying factors of the total budget. We have no implementation and no final decision on whether such a payment will be undertaken. We're currently worried about the position in travel services. I could in that relationship, for example. Pointing to an enormous degree in Iclanland's operation in the early part of this year, it is quite clear that the load can hardly be added to that situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u48	President. Now I realize that the highest. The minister is used to dealing with large sums of money, and this refers to them about That's 1,000 billion this year's budget. But what I'm pointing out is that although it's not a giant figure in the very large context, the estimated travel agency is still 2.5% of the budget, and it really makes no difference. But that might just be true - because the situation seems to remain the same since we discussed a financial agenda in our time and, of course, the thought of a financial plan was still the same. By increasing the perception of state affairs - and there is no unusual requirement for the release of a bidden in spring, it would either be carefully implemented in a financial bill in the fall or simply made a clear declaration that it would not be. And that is why I reiterate my question: Is it a requirement to increase this fee, or has it been decided to cancel this payment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u49	A respectable president. What we want to do primarily is to stick to our goals of living. We're looking at the entire sector and the entire budget team, we're going to publish and discuss underlying factors. The answer is true. A senator said that such paybacks - income - powered currency, as is the general practice of currency - were an underlying prerequisite for them. In effect, there is a statement not to suggest such remuneration at the input of the bill, but a crucial time regarding these underlying criteria will be the first time we get a new national forecast and a list of revenues and reciprocations. Then we will need to evaluate: Are we in need of further provisions, and are we in a position to follow these underlying factors? [[The president calls.]] At present, we do not assume that such receipts will be implemented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u50	A respectable president. After looking at this bill, I see that there's quite a lot of charges and ups under there. Based on the accuracy of each new tax level, the lowest level, I ask a pensioner. Secretary of finance whether it was calculated how much this is in centenarians, what is coming in on taxes and charges with this. I can see that this must be a considerable amount, and there are new fees to be paid as well as other costs. This will have a tremendous impact on those with the lowest salary and compensation in this country. Why is it not calculated exactly how much charges are being raised in dollars?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u51	A respectable president. This bill is the most important item we're talking about a dollar rate, and then it's just a question of whether we can look at it the same way. If there is a high price rate per year during inflation, we will be looking at the Ministry of finance to reduce the cost. That is, in effect, a tax reduction. Even if the cost is increased by percent, the same could be said, while the price in the country is not in terms of the cost. That's what I want to do. But the way this happens to each one depends on how many beer men drink, how many gallons a man buys, and how many gallons of fuel are used in the household. How the charges and taxes mentioned in this bill affect each household are only varied from home, depending on its size, patterns of consumption, etc. The overall impact of the bill on prices is 0.07%. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u52	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers, but it tells itself that there are new fees that must be involved. But there's something else in this thing that I put my eyes into, and it's about that there's supposed to be a vacation market that's going to remain the same. If a cut-off target is not to be raised according to an index, 2.5%, we are talking about 2,500, which is an increase in the number of people working and about 30,000 dollars. A year's basis. How, then, can this be fair? If this is normal, why is this the only thing taken out of the room? I also find it surprising that unchanged arrangements had dropped by a billion per year, i.e. if it wasn't in there. [[The president calls.]] This should be inside, this is to try to encourage disability to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u53	A respectable president. That's a very good tip for you. A senator that, for example, if at any point we were to agree on a fixed capital level at a commercial holiday market, it would be completely unwise to let the holiday target follow the same criteria as that of an e.g. The personal discount we are suggesting for future growth in the land. However, this particular vacation target has been jumping up and down. In general, when we discuss the costs and costs of lifting them, we are wondering how we can create the motivations and lift up with people who want to save themselves, but we are also looking at the cost of sacrifice that results. If so, I mean that as we raise the early income goal more, our ability to support those who are unable to earn money is reduced. We can't spend the same crown twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u54	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his story. I have two questions. In section V of the bill, there is a change in the law on the payment of costs in official financial control. The report says this is a down payment on business banks, as well as on insurance servers, pension funds, and municipal loans. If the highest. A minister might argue why it is necessary to lower the charges on this party if necessary, it would be good to get it here. Then I want to ask the highest. Minister to this new tax, in terms of sentencing. It's a new tax, like the highest tax. A minister rightly mentioned, to be returned 2.5 billion in 2021. The industrial organization has criticized him somewhat, saying that this risk is that it will only be a clean income for a government fund where there is a lack of facilities and resources for handling such wastes. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking for the Minister's comments about the industry's Association comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u55	A respectable president. First, then, about the price, it is intended to be paid under financial supervision. As I traced to my prehistoric debate, the fee will be sufficient for that, plus the money of the Fed. This price is eventually determined after a formal consultation process and the only problem that has been involved in it actually focuses on the scope of the observation in the country. The country's financial companies have asked themselves if it takes a lot of regular work, these many employees, that much surveillance. There we have rather wanted to go forward in such a way that no one could doubt that our surveillance partners would be equipped to keep their perspectives on the market and on the things hidden from them. The World Bank Fund has also been very relevant. [[The president calls.]] I need to give a brief mention that these comments need to be considered. What we're trying to do with these charges, inflation, is a change in behavior. We're trying to get a change, we're not going to a income gathering operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u56	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I have some doubts about the need to turn down the check-up fee to the business banks. Now it's time to lower the bank tax, and I would have felt the need to continue the normal surveillance of business banks in the country. Hence, this stands in opposition to what is stated elsewhere in this arrangement. Regarding the tax on the price, it says the highest. Minister to be changing people's behavior. Yet, these are 2.5 billion. This is a substantial amount, and that's why, I think, is necessary for more details on how this procedure will be conducted, e.g. with families in the country. That's 6,000. in the coming year of the state's budget, and it'll probably be $12,000. when the induction is complete. For example, there is a considerable amount of money for poor families.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u57	A respectable president. I just want to encourage the committee to review these comments carefully. I like what you're doing. A senator is realistic in this regard. If options do not exist or take longer, situations need to be listened to. An example of an excellent arrangement that has proved effective in this regard would be the due. This has made sure that, instead of throwing away a used beverage, we have an amazing recovery rate of drinking containers for the budget of buying and then reimbursement. We might imagine achieving similar results in the category of guards against the guards. But we're going into a new field, and we have to listen to what the developers bring up, including the rurals and the rest. A senator referred to him. [[The president calls.]] That's where the Committee's working.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u58	Mr. President. I'm not going to have many words about this bill, but I'd like to shed some light on things that I think we should just think about. First, I think this sheds interesting light on the interaction between taxes and services, how we finance the expenses we are prepared to spend. We in the Union have rather talked about financing the government with taxes primarily, and we have services, patient fees, deposit fees, etc. to a minimum, but, of course, they need to be there. Many of these remunerations are perfectly natural to me, and I'm not going to interfere with the individual charges of this speech. But in general, and I think I'll come up with a little bit more when we discuss the bill that is involved in changing the tax system, I think we need to be much more radical when it comes to how we build the tax system, who should carry the tax burden upstairs and in what way. We in the United States, and there should not be any surprise, the UN has called for a higher capital tax, higher resource costs, higher pollution taxes; these are all the revenues we should take on rather than leaving the class or lower caste at the expense of the state, whether through the taxes paid by these classes or through the individual currency paid for their service. I'd also like to mention at the outset specifically that although we're talking about the side of income, we need to be on guard when it comes to the expenses of the state's budget. I just want to say from this hearing that we on the budget board have had an updated risk assessment for the year's expenses, 2019. At the beginning of the year, a 9 billion risk assessment was expected to exceed the budget established in budgets. This risk assessment has now been updated. It got worse by 22 billion, so by this year 31 billion are expected above the budget and to finance it, of course, the government fund needs to make money. That's even. ... doneinthe bill. I'm on a budget board, not on a financial and business board, but I'd still like to encourage an economic and business committee, who gets these bills on the subject, to look at this total budget. I understand from members of the committee that there is a possibility that they could be able to look at the increase in dollar figures, what they are doing, and how they have improved their ministry. Of course, all of this is about improving the ministry. There is no goal in itself in adding to the charges against citizens or businesses. The purpose must be to improve the public ministry. That's what matters, and I think left men and right men can be completely united in it. It's the service that matters, not necessarily the centenarian that goes on that assignment. But to say that they are not surprised to learn that some part of the government is experiencing a considerable lack of financial resources, as well as large projects, especially on welfare matters. We recently received a presentation on a budget committee, and much of it is headed for four billion dollars of the Land Hospital. This year's tilt, and sometimes this tail is very predictable. We are accepting funding or bandorm, as in this case, which we do not know is sufficient to meet the requirements of the institution. We also need to be very realistic at planning, and I think we can be totally consistent with that. There are three things I'll specifically mention here. It's only being added to the interest, but it's actually like a dollar. I'd like to remind you that the growth reform system is almost gone in Iceland. I think there's 3.4 billion in it, and we see that about half of those who enjoyed interest here in the past are lost from that system. I think I and the highest. The secretary of finance does not share the same ideologies when it comes to growth. I think growth reforms are a very necessary means of our welfare system, to meet the costs of poor families when it comes to financing their housing. But when half of it is just passed out of the system, because the damages are in that way, I think the system is faulty. We need to be much more handsome in ensuring normal interest capitals. When she was last in the government, she put a lot of emphasis on growth and child support and in the terms of the Commonwealth period, she put together in the 100 billion dollars, considerably more than this government is doing in terms of child development and growth reform. We are devastated, and if we look at who loved it most, it was a low income family. The growing benefits of the income - stricken families reached about half of the cost of housing that this group had. For less money, interest rates are quite important. On the one hand, there is a traditional law that a part of the elderly's enterprise can go into business. The idea of a treatment fund for the elderly, a nose tax, was to be built up in nursing homes, it wasn't supposed to be a business. It's not like any new political bitch. All the governments I've been tracking the past few years have been doing this, taking the money, at least. Part of those who are to enter into the fund of the elderly, and to go into business. I think we just need to stop; I don't know when the right time is in order to help the elderly to get what he was thinking about, which is new to the elderly. This was merely a place for pollution taxes and green taxes, and I think we should use them more and more. Pollution is too cheap for this country. I believe economic catalysts have an influence, that they affect our behavior and the behavior of our companies. Transmission taxes have the most practical tax, so to speak. Tax is generally unefficient, but pollution taxes are practical, as they are able to cover the social cost to the person responsible for it. If pollution is simply too cheap, the cost of third party falls. I support my whole mind all the good ideas involved in raising pollution taxes, green taxes, and we're supposed to take a closer look at them, taxing those who are polluting their expenses. We will be able to handle the cost of their power, but we will also achieve changes in behavior. This is what we need to consider that to a greater degree than what is now being done. Of course, this is the big thing today when it comes to disaster. We don't just need to get the people in the country and in the world to behave differently, we need to get the companies with us on this mission. In particular, the polluters are involved, and it is key to big business, any company, taking part in the struggle to prevent disaster. The questions, challenges, and challenges that we face will be larger than we can see in this regard. Finally, I'd like to mention just what I mentioned in return to the highest degree. Secretary of finance for the decommissionment of a crown to a decrease, which is part of the bill being discussed here. They're talking about this mixing of disability stores, social security and pension funds. Everyone in this room has said many times that they want to take away that break, and I know the whole story, why it was set up, etc., I'm not dragging feathers over it. But I think it's a long time for us to take this step, but it costs money. There are about 21,000 micro-organists in the country, and we are directly involved in their terms. I don't think it's acceptable when half of the micromanagers earn less than 220,000 bucks. for tax. Half the disability has less than 220,000. It's not an acceptable number, I know we're all agreed on that. If we look at 70% of the microchip, they'll earn less than 300,000 dollars. This is a group that, in many cases, cannot gain additional income and is at the mercy and mercy of decisions taken in this room at an elected time. One of the factors that this group has put so much emphasis on is to take the step of removing a dollar from a coin. But the cost of $15,12 billion can be reached for 1,000 billion dollars. I don't know. I mean, it's a financial bill, it's really there. Here's the highest. Ministers for various tax reductions, e.g. on bank tax. Cutting off the bank tax costs about 8 billion a year when it is done. It is the political will of the government to have the lowest capital tax in all the North countries. We can see that the fishing expenditures have dropped 40%, from 11.2 billion to 7 billion, since that government took over so that there is nothing irresponsible to say that we can truly finance a dollar's delinquency. I agree with it as the highest. In contrast, a minister said that an overall review must be completed and that the so - called provisional principle has to be discontinued and this step taken. Now that we're halfway through the season, I think it's a group that's just been waiting too long. But this money is not to be seen, either in the bandormins, on the budget bill, or in the financial program. I just want to make it look great. Minister, who I know has the wallet in this government, to ensure that we will complete this step before the election season ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u59	Mr. President. What brings us into the middle class about this bill is new taxes. We in the Middle East don't particularly like new taxes, much prefer taxation. It is stated in the financial bill that billing taxes to 17 billion will be canceled, i.e. that those who were supposed to pay taxes at $17 billion. to the state funds don't come to pay them. These stitches need to be worn and the need to know if collections cannot be added. It is estimated that there are 80 billion tax frauds a year, even more, according to a recent report that has been presented. The plan is about 200 million. K. increased IRS during the coming financial year to be returned about 250 million. K. ... ina treasureofthecreet. This shows that it is far from the time we face the serious problem that involves this high amount of about 80 billion, the estimated failure to make a trust in a trust fund. First, I want to review a new tax as discussed at 34. gross, tax on fluorated greenhouse gases. This gives a considerable amount of money to the government, but this tax raises some questions: How much of the tax is, for example. to come because the government fund is going to destroy these undesirable gases? This tax has to be reasoned with, i.e. Does he want to destroy these gases? A discount is given the first year of 50%, followed by full induction. Then you'll ask, "Is this going to be the first year? " What is the real cost of destroying these fluorinated greenhouse gases? You ask yourself, " How much of the tax system is the direct tax returns to other uses, how expensive it is to destroy these species, technology is present, etc. ' Many questions remain unsettled, and you wonder whether this will affect the equipment that has these gases - will cause them to rise? Does all the cooling equipment in the country raise? Is that how it is? Or does this just apply to industrial cooling equipment? I feel that this is inexplicable and needs further discussion and explanation. Yeah, it's going to be all right. It is minimal for taxpayers to know exactly what the tax goes and how the tax system works. I feel that there's a bit vague in this, and here's a new tax that needs further discussion, and then it's about how it goes, for example. to the companies in the country. Does this cause a heavy impact on the companies in the country? We are faced with increasing unemployment, business is even breaking up employees - can this affect the survival of our companies? We need that information. Then there's the price I came on in response to the highest price. Minister, 6,000 K. in every home. It's probably coming, after the induction, to be about $12,000. in every home. This tax is due to be paid 2.5 billion in 2021. I mentioned in the contrary that the Society of Industrialism criticized this tax, and I rejoice at the highest. A minister introduced the need for a good review on the committee, and I agree. The company and the homes of the country want to do a good job in waste, but if sufficient and necessary measures are not available so that waste can be disposed of properly, this tax will not solve that situation. How vital it is that this should be discussed on the committee, and it will not be started with a new tax system that does not bring in what is intended. But it has so much in this government that it has continued to move on in these green taxes without being able to determine its results. I'll come in on it later, especially with regard to the carbon bill. Then there are some interesting points. I mentioned, for example. 10th par. that discuss official financial monitoring. You ask: What demands does a state fund make in return for the work so that there is a normal agreement between real - life growth, so to speak, the surveillance, and the business goals of a government fund? The question is, Can the SEC run the operation any way? It is said that the price should meet the costs for monitoring. True, walking on your own money is beginning to happen; it was the government's decision that the surveillance would take its own money and that the charges are being dropped. I don't see the purpose of reducing this fee to the banks, as mentioned earlier, especially in view of the fact that the bank tax is about to go down. I'd like to specifically mention the 21st floor. that discuss the State Radio. The price paid by virtually every citizen in the country is to be raised, of course not young people and older citizens. The Government Radio receives over 4.8 billion, and there is a need to discuss it in this Senate Hall whether it is reasonable to place so much money in this institution. Now there are ideas of taking the Kingdom News out of a commercial market, is the government budget just paying it? These charges are rising by 120 million. K. in the coming financial year of the bill, and I think it's only a modern requirement to review whether the public will be for putting so much money into this business, which is, of course, on a competitive basis. Finally, I'd like to enter the carbon bill, although it's not mentioned directly in the bill. It was decided on the last bill that it would rise by 10% this year and then about 10% next year. In terms of this price, there are now an estimate of 6.3 billion or 6,340 million. K. The rate of tax recovery is in the general public and the public car owner, and especially those living in the region where the use of electric vehicles is very limited. As we have seen in the discussion, we should not forget that not everyone can afford to buy an electric vehicle, and such vehicles are not suitable for everyone. It is quite clear that this cost, which has been raised substantially in the history of this government, is worst on the incomeiest groups and those who cannot afford to buy a new electric vehicle or a car that is less efficient. It is also very interesting that the highest. Environment Minister has acknowledged that the results of this payment are difficult to assess. It was noted at a meeting of the Commission of the Environment Department that the Ministry cannot determine the results of this fee. Of course, the results of the price cannot be determined. Are we using less diesel, less gasoline in the country? We don't have any numbers on that. This is something that needs to be settled. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that the results include the rapid growth of electrical vehicles. Yes, it is a pleasure to do so, but this tax must be put down on the people of the land in a fair way, and that does not make those taxes. Some senators have simply rejoiced in this taxation that I find very strange. How can we rejoice over something that is recognized as unappreciative of the results? It's perfectly clear that this has to be done. We know that while automobiles release some 6◯8% of carbon dioxide, automobile owners carry about 90% of these emissions - related taxes. V.E.G. A financial and economic minister would also need to be evaluated for the household composition of the rise in carbon pay. There's need to know. One question: Is there not a danger of taxing the most subsidized group in other parts of the bill to support? It's necessary to come out. The price to raise is at the end of the year by about 10%, which means an increase in gasoline and diesel oil. There is great uncertainty about global oil prices, which quickly rose by 20% as a result of events in the Middle East. This is something that needs to be identified, the result. We then know this by means of the carbon emissions and the canals that have been mentioned. There are no figures on how many new canals are dug every year. There's some information to be provided, it all seems more and less unsearched. Mr. President. Granted, climates are serious, and in the Middle East we view them as serious as everyone in this room. On the other hand, we make it clear that there is a right way to go, which leads to success. It is normal for taxpayers to be informed on new taxes, whether they are tax taxes, carbon taxes, or taxes on fluorinated gases, gases, whether they are effective. I am convinced that the public would show understanding, at least in greater understanding, that this taxation is taken up if they were to know the result. But that is not the case. I have no perspective on this matter, and the government has only continued in these matters to show that it is doing something. The action lies in tax increases, and no one knows what the result is. I must finally say, Mr. President otherwise it's a traditional bill. However, the key repercussions are slightly lower than the index rate, so it is a good example and relate to the natural biographies. I think it is necessary for this work to be done in the future, not always to be a government fund, which is expected to go up each year's annual expenses, which will eventually raise the inflation rates, raise the loans of the households, etc. That is positive, and you ask: Is it only because the law is in the biography agreements? Does not the government take the initiative not always to follow inflation with all the increases that go on each year? Other than that, I think I'll come into this discussion later and as the wind unfolds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u60	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. After listening to him, I wondered how he himself had been able to get along, and I'm kind of going to have to say it. I ask: Is there any of the income - related teams around here that he can cut himself off or not? And how would he put such a bill above his head? He even had. a comment on money spent in preventing taxes - what money does the senator consider acceptable to be in that category? He mentioned the 100 million that are put in it, above what has been put into it, and he has shown himself to have worked, and I ask what he thinks he needs there. In view of the fact that all of this is impossible, he must have some ideas about what he thinks is suitable. It's hard to say that it's impossible, and not enough, and that you can't give back only very small, if you can't support it with some kind of reason. As a matter of fact, I believe that social monitoring is a major success, and we've seen it when the IRS goes to a company and something like that. It affects many and, in a short time, many people, who are paying taxes back in time. That, too, is important, as well as the big things we have seen during the past few years. It was not the grand sum that the client in the capital area was moved to follow the Airbnb, but it has produced remarkable results. He claims that it will result in continued success with an increase of about 400% in registration. But I ask the senator, and I'd love to get some serious legal suggestions on how he makes a living. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I stressed in my speech that success was achieved by these new taxes, that we knew exactly what those new taxes were paying. I specifically crossed the carbon bill, like what's-her-face. I guess a senator has heard, and then I specifically mentioned the tax. This is what I have emphasized in my language, that we know the results. It is not available in this tax system, as it has been shown and confirmed by the Environment Ministry, as I mentioned. In terms of tax and tax returns, the bill, as I mentioned, also shows that tax returns to 17 billion have not been returned or are written down. We need information on this on the committee and the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, has just established this, and agrees with me in that we need information on this, and that's the best thing to do. But as for the tax cover shot, you're right about it. There needs to be a convergence, and I believe there needs to be a perfect solidarity, a parapolitic solidarity, to deal with these issues. I personally believe that 200 million dollars. raise only 250 million, I think it's a very low amount, and 200 million is, of course, 200 million, 200 million - there's a natural coin in it, and, of course, I'm celebrating it. But you ask yourself, " How are these results calculated, etc.? ' I don't think he's enough for this amount, and especially not given the total amount, 80 billion bucks. This is something that all classes must join together in, how these things should be done, and how they should be handled. [[The president calls.]] I think that's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u62	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. However, there may have been few answers, but the lack of research on which taxes are effective and what taxes they do not. I named Airbnb earlier, and I hear the Senator agrees with that. I agree that transnationalally we must unite in wanting to avoid tax collections. However, the taxes listed here, e.g. The fluorated tax is a means of approach used in Denmark. We're not just snatching it out of thin air. But, of course, I trust it. A member of the council calls out from now on, that this will be handled very well on the committee. It has this bill, like everybody else, that we should go over it well on a committee. But we must face it, if we agree that we live in disasters and human disasters, that the watch is not good, it's just not good, I think we can agree on that. What are the motives besides those who come to people's markets? It should be very burdensome, in my opinion, because it is to encourage individuals to classify. The Senator must have some ideas about what he would like to do, other than waiting for some conclusions. Can we wait, if we don't put the taxes on, after research and follow-up? Whether this has been successful after two or three years? How should we investigate this? We can do a poll, nobody wants to pay more taxes. We know this in general. [[The president calls.]] I feel like what's being said here is a little bit of loose air, and it's not logical. Just as the senator points out is tested in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must have misunderstood my words when she says that this is a loose catch. I think that's the point of this particular tax system, i.e. The price. It has been criticized by the industrial organizations, as I was well acquainted with these materials, that the situation in which companies are offered and even individuals are not satisfactory. It may be minimal that when this tax is laid down, all its facilities are constructed and built up so that these things can be okay. I'll agree with that with what's happened. A senator that is not suitable for growling. I would have wanted to see that it would be decomposed. But this tribute is laid in all the houses of the land. He'll be, when he's finished, about $12,000. and it's a little bit of money. There is no watch in the South, where all waste is burned: are the houses of the South to pay this tribute? The answer has not been answered. So there are some things that need to be considered in this matter, such as the highest. Secretary of finance mentioned. I'm glad he brought this up on the committee, and we have to go over it; these are the highest amounts, these are 2.5 billion, and it's a spontaneous and legitimate requirement for the taxpayers to be done on this matter. I think this tax system, this new tax, shows that the start has been made without enough basic work to be done, which is clearly seen in the criticism of the Industrial Association.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u64	Mr. President. V.E.G. A financial minister has introduced to us plans for a host of tax increases that, to a large extent, will affect prices and inflation, both directly because of the relics presented here, but also because, as the experience shows, the rise in the state will lead to increases in other products and services so that there will be a multiple effect of this. It has been noted that there is a 2.5% rise in centenarians and that is lower than the inflation expected and referred to in the biographies agreements called. Yet, this apostasy from the policy that was set in 2014 for the State to no longer be the cause of raising prices in the country. It is most inappropriate for the state to be the first of the year, to raise its expenses and services for expectation that inflation will become so, and so much, in the coming year. It is, of course, the State is giving up the ups that follow. It is not only traditional centenarian elevations that have been introduced here but also new fees and new taxes and a high priority on so - called green taxes. I'm sure this is better than any tax and other fees that go on the public because they're green, they're supposed to have some noble purpose. But as to other taxation, should it not be in general to have a noble purpose? Or can we expect from this government that it will start paying special health taxes or health costs, special welfare taxes, and therefore people will not complain, these are welfare taxes that will be useful to people's well - being? Or the security fees, the safety taxes, so that the law enforcement and safety of the public can be maintained? Green taxes and green fees are just taxes and fees and increased spells on the public population of the country. Worse yet, they actually approach being a nose tax and settle the nature of the matter relatively against those who are earners, for more and less all have to pay those taxes, the punishment that the green taxes really are. When you go through the bill as the highest. Of course, a financial minister recommended earlier appeared a long list of various elevations and in XVII. section is presented with changes in recycling laws. Twenty-fiveth. says that instead of $350. 900, instead of 700 bucks. Come on, 1800 k.. For 26. par.: Instead of 16 kn. I'll be right back. 28 K. etc. All of this is on the same book. The amount of recycling costs of any kind will increase substantially, and it affects all the resources that people need to use in their daily lives and, as a result, is widely distributed throughout the community and has an overall impact, and in all cases there is an increasing penalty for the general population in the country. There is also a change in the XVIII environmental and resource laws presented in XVIII. section; on taxation of fluorinated greenhouse gases; and then pricing tax, which is an entirely unprecedented idea, in my opinion. Another green tax, another penal tax, and in this case, it is to punish people for buying things, even buying foods that need to be thrown out. In fact, it's a tax for real. How interesting it was to hear the highest news! Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, earlier described this as not a tax designed for income gain but for consumer management. In this case, I think that it's become the Independence Party's policy to attack a consumer control force, to tell people what they're buying, in this case, to try to get them to least buy at least with a special fee for shopping, for buying things. But what makes this even more remarkable is that at the same time the government trusts in increased consumption in order for the law to work. While it is suggested that the public eat, buy, buy things, and, at the same time, expect the public to continue buying things so that the budget works. This is no small price for men to lay on, 15 K. per kilogram of contaminated waste. No doubt it will be the same with this as with the other penalties of this government and the last, that they will only increase progressively and in each case will explain to us that it is all right because the purpose is so noble. The cost of processing on a variety of packages is increasing, plastic wrappings, and what interests me especially is that the processing fee on the hay-plastics will rise from 16 k. a kg to 28 k. per kilogram. This is a very significant increase, as is true of other increases presented in this bill. But why? Why punish farmers in particular for using products they need in their production? All I know is that farmers in general are holding the plastic they use and putting it in place when it has finished its function. Why, then, punish them? Expecting to use less of this plastic, i.e. My product? Are they supposed to produce less hay? Is it possible that they would go back to using the old baloney? What is the purpose of punishing farmers for producing food in Iceland? This is just another example of developing European food production and agriculture from all directions that are particularly strange because there is little better way to protect the environment and especially to deal with climate change than to promote European agriculture, domestic food production, and consumption of that production on the land, especially. This, I would think, directly contrary to the environmental aims and would include some kind of punishment for standing in Iceland and producing food. Sadly, much of what has been presented today is the same thing. These are penal taxes rather than something positive. It has been mentioned, although it has not yet been introduced to us members of Congress, that we are expected, by descriptions, to be innocently paid to people for their journeys. The points I'm referring to are not in the budget bill, and that in itself is peculiar. This has been hidden until the introduction to today's presentation, and then the meeting will be held at the same time that this meeting began. But, according to the description, they will go even further to punish the citizens for their existence, for buying food and things, and for going their way, with an amazing payment to come in, apparently an endless, expensive and inexplicable task called a city line. But now I'm probably going out a little bit, and not because it's all on the same book. The conclusion is that although the government introduced these financial laws as a tax reduction, it is not. There is an increase in budget for the public in the country that is best seen by looking at the big picture and by the fact that the government's taxes are now expected to increase by an average of 40 to 750 billion per year. Amazing amount. In fact, in this year of 2019, tax revenues had been expected to increase, but in view of economic developments, they have had to reevaluate it in a reduction. The tax revenues do not increase as much as man expected. Yet, the next year, with economic problems continuing to arise in order to cope, an enormous rise in income. This is due, in part, to the number of remunerations that have been mentioned here today. Of course, this is also in part because the government assumes that people will not be told that they can't travel anywhere and that they can't buy things, no matter what happens to criminal taxes. The conclusion of this budget bill will be that in two years, since 2018, the government's tax returns to an increase of no more than 10%. In two years, the government's tax returns by 10%, and then they present it as a tax reduction bill. Quite remarkable, Mr. President. The big picture shows that the government is laying increased spells on the public in the country. It is likely that she feels that she needs to be able to live up to growing gaps, but it is also very important in the way this is done, with this nasal tax shown in any sort of green penalties, with remunerations that give up the game for high prices and an increase in index number in the new year, with generally negative motivation for employment and the public in Iceland. In other words, speaking of environmentally, Mr. President, it's not sustainable financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u65	A respectable president. It is an advantage to describe the development of tax increase as the income of the state is increasing with increasing interest in the economy. That's the way it was, for example. when we are. A senator was in government together that the government's income was growing very much, but we were still paying taxes. The taxes were reduced, we were reducing the burden of people and companies. That's exactly what we're talking about here, and completely out of the way to argue that when a centennial fee comes along after a country's prices, we're taking back all the benefits of other tax reduction initiatives. The overall impact of the government's proposals is to reduce curses, as they would not be supported by the labor movement if that were the other way around. It's perfectly obvious. But I didn't say in my background that I thought green taxes were good because they were consumer control. I never used that term. However, I said that we were trying to influence behavior, and then I was referring, not to consumption, but to the fact that we would achieve a change in conduct through the waste. Then we are primarily hoping that it will become increasingly classified; that when we have garbage, waste that can be classified, which is a store of consumer goods or other things, we will do it and return it for recycling, but we will not bring it unclassed, undesirable. That's the changed behavior I'm talking about. And in both of these cases, when we're discussing the green taxes on this matter, there are options. Fluorinated greenhouse gases are not the only ones that can be considered to advance the cooling media, but there are other advantages, and we are trying to get changed behaviors to use environmental benefits and that humans are more in sorting than recycling. But I've done so many times here in a discussion of history and in protest that I want the committee to be very careful about whether or not we're in the position to make the change right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u66	Mr. President. First about the highest note. Minister: I make a comment primarily on how much taxes the State makes while economic growth is not greater than it has been seen. In fact, I thought the tax revenues would even increase slightly more slowly than the economic growth. But as it is, tax returns during this period seem to increase much faster than economic growth and thus include increased spells. For the highest possible comment. It's interesting to hear the highest possible sound. A minister says that this should include, not consumption control, but some kind of behavioral modification, as I don't know better than that it was introduced in a way that should be reduced. But okay. I agree, of course, that we should promote recycling and that waste is being treated as environmentally as possible - and that it is not a particularly environmental means of disposal. But at the height. A minister has noted that in the case of these fluorinated gases, there is another option that may be in the right position at the highest level. Minister, the problem is that there is no comparable option available to deal with the current waste. Already there is extensive recycling of materials that can be sent to recycling, although it must be said that a large proportion of them will go out to Sweden and other countries that simply set things on fire. But we haven't built up what I think the government should contribute to, today's high-tech garbage dump, just as humans have in Oslo, to form, where garbage is used for energy production, where garbage is burned in a environmental way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u67	A respectable president. It is a good idea that we consider the further use of waste within the country for building up the spirit. A senator brings up, and I believe that we can both, if we're to classify politicians - not for recycling, but to define us - in this group of realists. The important thing is that we're looking at numbers that show the extent of the damage in Iceland that's worrying. We can see in neighboring countries measures that release fluorated greenhouse gases with new and environmental benefits and that we want to contribute to their development in Iceland, i.e. increased category and quality or environmental material in cooling medium. I'd like to say again and again that I've been listening for comments that were made to the plan of the box, and many have been told, both that we're going through this very hard and that the infrastructure isn't there to go into this vast class. The rural governments have had the view that they should be authorized to pay the price because they are responsible for all of this. You might ask yourself, " If the person who has not been promoting a change now had the whip to strike himself, would that not be the case? ' These are all the points to consider. The key point is that we need to first agree that the magnitude of the event is abnormally high compared with the available resources and we are not, for cooling media, at the rate of time, compared to neighboring nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u68	Mr. President. I think this relationship can just end up in a positive tone. I agree with the highest. Ministers, if there are harmful substances in which other harmful alternatives are preferable, surely should contribute to the appearance of the more harmful neighborhood. More often used. With regard to the watch, I'm just going to make up what I mentioned earlier, that it's not environmental unless it's any less. It relieves enormous amounts of greenhouse gases so that it certainly takes other ways. But I would like to see the government contribute to their success rather than punish people for having to take advantage of the only way in which there is to go. For example - so I reiterate it - there is all the grounds to be incinerated by a lot of environmental policies than was ten years ago, I'm not talking about 20. It is completely modified technology, and even plastics can be burned in a kind of environmentally appropriate way as natural gas. In fact, overall household waste - and this is information from the U.S. Environment Agency - is the most environmentally dependent incinerator for energy production, obviously environmentally friendly than coal, oil, and gas. Hopefully, the government will contribute to our using technology to create more options for classification and incineration rather than further emphasis on punishing people for using the only available resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u69	Mr. President. There are many things to say about this bill, much more than you ever wondered about the fact that some nine pages of largely dollar - scale changes could be said. It's for many things that's good, but you're never completely satisfied. What's really bad, so you start with, there's a few remunerations, though fewer than last year, that are related to actual costs, but there's nothing to show what the real cost is. I've talked about this a lot before. Of course, it is a political decision to give an actual discount in certain cases, e.g. I think that it is politically acceptable that the cost of return to health care should be fixed and manageable, regardless of the level of service. In general, though, charges should be based on an existing overview of the actual cost, and while it is not an overview, I will always resist certain increases in the number of dollars. We need to know just how much things cost to know if it is normal for them to rise. Despite this general problem, not all the increases are bad, although there is quite some political reconciliation in Iceland regarding the need to take climate cover very seriously and take action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful pollution. Most of the bill we're discussing here turns to environmentally related charges in accordance with the pollution policy or, by permission of the President, to the polluter pays principle. I think it's a good rule in some ways except what it ignores a better explanation that's being leveled in the light of what's called, by President's permission, perhaps translated as a perimeter effect or something like that, i.e. Not all of the real cost is shown in market prices where marketing prices rarely take into account e.g. how much it costs to clean up after the party is over. This kind of environmental expenditure is a means of slightly correcting it. The bill primarily targets the fluorinated greenhouse gases, mainly sulphur hexafluoride, several mixtures, and HFCs. It's good that we're dealing with it. In the past, some substances of this fluorolated class have, e.g. CC material, just banned. These topics are harder to ban than the others because they are much more useful. So it is good for this to fail, because in some cases other options may be possible. For example, sulphur hexafluoride is some 23,900 times more potent greenhouse gases than CO2, and this does not focus on the reactive nature, as someone mentioned in pontta the other day, but on the extent of heat density. However, this material is extremely important, i.e. sulphur hexafluoride, in the safety systems of the electrical distribution system, has been used in high-voltage leak block, i.e. the high-voltage version of the leak currents that we have in our houses. And there are, of course, other things. As that example shows, many harmful substances are important to our society, and we need to find practical ways to limit their use and disposal. It's, for example. It's okay that sulphur hexafluoride is in some closed space, but if it escapes under bare air, it's bad. However, in this particular situation there are other options, such as air pressure, oil, gases and carbon dioxide ruptures. This kind of charge may result in the use of environmentally high-voltage spillages in situations where it is possible. It is not always possible to use them in return, but it is something that is realistic to do in many cases. I mention this point, which is technically and really a part of the present, which responds to the comment given at the time. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, earlier that money has to return something. At times, such expenditures are simply a means of controlling consumption away from worse methods toward someone better. In this case it is a consumer control of electrical companies. What I find worse about this bill is that while rising charges and negative impulses are inflated on the fact that pollution seems to be much less used to create positive incentives. There's some of the motivations I've read about, and I've thought of the last time I think we could take into thisulia, e.g. We've got a merit tax discount on electrical cars today, and it's just very nice. But there is no comparable worth - tax discounts from bicycles and electric bikes, which are in many ways better off when available. Such discounts would be to support energy exchange by others and in some ways more powerful and would fall upon the government's ideas of improving bicycle transport to the highest level. A secretary of transportation was introduced during the days. So I think that this type of discount would cost very little to a government fund, but it has a lot of effect. Another induces the value of taxation for public transport that follows fixed timing and cab service, on the other hand, the value of short - term weighted bicycles and electric bikes is worthy of extra taxation. Such a service requires that it be very cheap to be used to a reasonable degree. But in my mind, the approach to such services is more like cab service than a rental car, which is the other parallels you might find. No one's suggesting that we go to a credit cut on rental cars. But if it's more like taxis in the way the public uses it, you might consider whether such discounts were appropriate. Then I wondered if the environmental impact of the tvin and link trucks is as high as they've been talked about. I suspect that the overall environmental impact of an electric motor that takes the first few miles [a few km] or that helps the cars to move out after red light is not, unfortunately, sufficient to justify continued discounts. I'm here, in effect, saying that maybe we should skip the value of a tax discount, because there are cases of motor trucks having some of the resulting CO2-efficient less than equal fuel trucks. However, there is considerable carbon dioxide emissions, and I don't know if we really want to support it. Perhaps this could be compared to an economic (economic) system, by permission of a president, or to the bread crumbs theory, which assumes that if environmental cars are added to the economy, things will gradually improve and eventually leak. This is one of the few places where the bread crumbs theory is not quite 100% wrong, which is an interesting phenomenon. But it would be a better use of government funds to offer a higher price for very separate cars, actually starting to eat it up from below. For example, there are still some cars on the roads that, although reduced, are still well over 170 or 180 grams of carbon dioxide per mile. However, there may be some cars from the last decade of the century still on the road, and if we can get them off the road a little faster, this could have more effect than trying to increase the number of the others from above. There may be something to consider, and I hope that such ideas will be discussed in the Economic and Business Committee. As you can understand, I've lost my way into the environment a bit, which is the biggest bite of this bill. And that may also be what the bill is, the tax system is being used for a certain political purpose. I'll review my review of saying that the tax system is not and will never be neutral. It always describes a political view of how society should be built up. It's totally normal for us to talk at least how to be present and how to function, even if we let it be too deep in the general discussion of the building up of the tax system because of whether and how to earn a income tax and a merit tax or capital tax is just as much a question as how a community would like to build up. I just don't see any harm in the fact that we're using this tax system. Use probe: Taxs actually have the responsibility of preventing too much inflation if you examine modern economics. Then it's just a question of where we want the cost to come down. These expenditures are a way of letting the cost go to places where we have found something lacking and normal that we continue to do so because we are certainly a major problem in the community that will not be solved by waiting and hoping. I think the result is this, and I'll finish my point by saying that I'm pretty much comfortable with this bill. Of course, it can be fixed a little bit, and I can't wait to get it done more on the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u70	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill to legalize the change of various laws because of the budget. It's mostly talking about an increase in the rate of pay. In fact, the saddest time to go through all those charges is - I tried to count all the groups that are being raised but gave up, they say it's just an index, an average of 2.5% - nowhere shows how this is involved in low-payers and high-payers. During the discussion I had earlier, we answered the highest. Secretary of finance, he pointed out that the matter of taxes was about that, for example. I can buy a beer. Let's just say that, let's take a six-pack of beer into the picture; the increase in it takes a lot more on unemployed, low-paying people than on high-payers. It wouldn't be fair if it was a fee for lawbreakers, e.g. For example, traffic laws that we can deal with would be related to income? Finds earnings tied up these charges. Wouldn't it be fair that if two people break the law, exactly the same law, they have to pay the exact same percentage of their entrance into it in fines? In this way, we should think of the situation contrary to the thought of a prime event and the increases in which people are always being cut to the least. This bill contains e.g. I've been raising the cost of gasoline and oil. It also involves something that will have tremendous impact right now, an increase in world market prices on gasoline. That increase alone can eliminate all the tax losses ahead of us to be better than that. How, then, will the government compensate for the worst of these increases? And we also made our move here in return on a vacation goal. It suddenly enters one point that somehow cannot be included in this index. I'll put it in absolute silence. There it is, as I said, taking 2500 bucks. in a month of the micro-organism who are trying to work. If we put it in the context of tax increases, and I will do it below during the discussion, it tells me that in this case we're talking about some of the highest taxes and impairments that exist in our system because those who go above 109,600 bucks. ... onthefreemark, nearly 80% of their income is due for tax. And what may be the most odd thing in this context is that there is a large group out there who can't take advantage of it in any way because the pension fund consumes a vacation market. Then they try to work and land in this 80% tax immediately and even higher because this can affect more teams. It's really amazing that we're going to create such a system. And we're also supposed to ask for an increase in the state radio. That's 2.5%. This may be increased, but the cost of disability must not be raised. Of course, anyone on the lowest salary should be excluded from paying those $1,500. To the state radio, which will be 17,900 bucks. Then there is another factor in the new cost, the green tax on waste disposal, and we can also talk about greenhouse gases. They're talking about pollution of cars. Who are on the most polluted cars? They're the ones who hit the oldest cars, just sluts. It's ridiculous that they will be punished the most that can't afford to switch to more efficient cars, let alone buying electric cars. And that's what I say, they're always being punished in the opposite direction. It would be closer to those who can afford it more. I'm not going to keep this whole thing going on any further. But as I say, it must be minimal for those who are being paid off - and in so many and newly added joints - that they figure out what it is in a dollar for those who are in the lowest pensions and minimum because it's what counts. If the efficiency of the tax change can be calculated, it should be possible to calculate exactly what is being done in the tax context. I think the reason is that they don't want to calculate this because they'd have to show that the so - called taxes won't be paid to those who need them most, but they're taxing them. As a result, all profits and practicality will only flow into the pockets of those with the highest salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u71	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill about a change in various laws because of the budget. I'd like to start my case by saying thank you very much. Economic and financial ministers for his review, mainly over the proposed tax increases. V.E.G. Ministers here announce new things to be beaten into all gaps so that so - called green taxes will be all - eyed, not reserved. The truth is, Mr. President, there really has something to do with checking that we are trying to reduce everyone's mess, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions to avoid excessive global warming. There's no way we can make a tournament. But what I have to do with this is that there must be some clear policy behind such taxation. There needs to be some sort of scheme of taxes that will bring the matter to the best of its own advantage. The taxation has to be based on a series of scenarios where you can predict how the effect will benefit the subject. Taxation such as these green taxes may not be just one taxation on the inhabitants of the country, but that is the very feeling that many are experiencing when some of these taxes are looked into the background. Mr. President. My comments work out that, in some cases, there are no research on the effects of some of these taxes, and in other cases, the state seems to be paying taxes, although there is no government to attack the problem itself. But because all other nations put these taxes on us, we must do the same even if circumstances are different and even if the State is not involved at times. In that case, you can't imagine the feeling that there's only one other tax here; the idea was so good, and it came from outside, that we just can't afford to skip this opportunity at all. Mr. President. I'm going to start my work on the carbon charge, but the cost is expected to rise by 10%, resulting in the rise of fuel and oil, resulting in a direct increase in these increases in prices and indicators, thus increasing the security rate of the population. After this increase, the income of the state's budget will be about 6.4 billion. It would be nice to see figures over the expense of this country's debt as a result of future increases in carbon costs, including increases in the priced mortgages of the country's population. What cost will this country's debt, apart from paying the fee itself, have been directly affected by an increase in the prices of the land's house? How many hundred million are there? Is that the case? It is not for no reason that I mention the investigation of many of these increases, for at a meeting with a financial committee, representatives of the Environment Ministry confirmed that the pressures of this fee could not be confirmed. This is what I call inquisitor. The price is laid on and then it is hoped that more people will buy their environmentalized cars, electric cars, but there are no studies behind the impact of this trend. This is a trend that is seen in many neighboring lands. No one's trying to minimize the climate problem, but there seems to be a pure experiment, and taxation is put in such a lovely, beautiful suit, and the purpose of having it justify an increase in taxation. Thus new and increased taxes are being put on car owners, deforestation, farmers, and other citizens, and it is simply not known what they understand in terms of the stated purpose of the price, you see environmentally. We know well, Mr. President, how much this will cost, what it will be in that box, 6.4 billion. Then I'm going to discuss a prospective tax system, which holds a little the same opinion as the carbon account - but not. This new tax, the price tax, is tore up in the bill we discuss here about changing the environmental and resource taxes law, no. 129/2009. The fact is, the State has no expense. In terms of the new tax, there is no intention that the tax should do anything more than become more efficient, see incineration, recycling, or classification. The tax is not supposed to run into it, the private people are not going to run the watch, so taxing is merely taxing public services that the locals provide for their citizens, and the government has no access to - except now by taxing. It is strange to impose a tax on others, but at the same time it is intended to ban the price. This isn't gonna work out. I would, for example. it also suggests that the contribution of this matter to the guards was provided with a plan, a plan to allow planned tax taxes to be, for example. aimed at making the use of waste possible, e.g. by building a perfect dump here. In this country, the number of wastes has increased over the last few years. In 2016 the amount of waste fell to over a million tons. According to the 2017 report, each country's average disposal of 660 pounds [660 kg] of household waste per year has become available in the EEA. Some of it goes into recycling. Most of the rest of the world's work is being done at certain locations throughout the country. What I'm pointing to, Mr. President, is that there must be some means of disposal, if you want to put on a tax tax tax tax, and the money that comes in for the tax must go in order to promote it, to reimburse it, as I have mentioned, to burn; to build a perfect dump; as more speakers have entered earlier today. Why is it not a plan to increase classification, increase recycling? It has been said to promote the growth of recycling. But on whose hands is that recycling? It is in the hands of a rural partner, and this tax should, in some respects, go to the countryside to promote the very resources. Waste management can cause long - term shallow water pollution and toxic soil, as well as heavy land management. In recent years domestic waste has not been transferred from Iceland to burning in countries other than pollutants, e.g. oil wastes, has been sent to other countries to recycle, e.g. for use as second-time fuels for energy production. Recently, there have been ideas of sailing with garbage to Sweden and other countries for incineration at so - called high - tech dumps. Is this tax, Mr. President, perhaps intended? Is it perhaps intended to subsidize or to pay under cruises carrying garbage for incineration? I don't think so. Mr. President. I think such a small country as Iceland should follow a good example and be the first to fulfill its obligations to the environment and to reuse, then to burn the rest of the country, but not to sail it to other countries to burn there. There are waste dumps abroad that are equipped with highly advanced waste - burning technologies so that very little pollution is now being done. In addition, heat can be used both for heating and for electricity production. As an example of this, in the north, there are many such cremations and the latest ones in Copenhagen, in the middle of the city. It is burning waste nearly twice the amount of waste that falls into Iceland. This incineration is in the middle of Copenhagen, Mr. President. There are some strategies for the construction of such deforestation centres and for the cost to be paid, e.g. Where she will be built for these tax dollars? Apparently not. I haven't seen them. Are there plans to support the project to build perfect recycling centres, or classification stations, and to allow the tax to produce that function rather than just a trust fund? I haven't seen it, Mr. President. Or should the tax perhaps go to subsidize exports to foreign wastes and wastes there? Mr. President. I'm an amateur to identify the descent of so - called environmental taxes, whether there is a real step towards better environmental relations, and thereby to trace greenhouse gas emissions - or as I've gone over, and there's evidence, unfortunately, Mr. President, just another taxation. I'm going to mention a so - called barnet tax that is also found in the bill that is extensive, but it mentions a number of pay that goes up - and mostly goes up, I think - one of which goes to 26. There is an increase in the so - called extraction charge on the trollum plastic, which will rise from 16 k. a kg to 28 k. What is such an increase? It's a 75% increase. What will be the effect on this tax? Has it been investigated? I think it is necessary, Mr. President, to call for a further plan on the effects of this currency that so increases agriculture. Is there such a plan? Is she in the way? Are Farmers to adopt older practices? And what happens to all this plastic? Is it possible for us to see as a result of this dramatic rise, a 75% rise, that we'll be able to see that we're all going to be out of bed, that we don't deliver this plastic, but gather it back at home? Is it a desirable effect when taxes are raised that much, as it seems to be with hauluk? Of course, Mr. President, I'm glad that there's a tax cut, e.g. income tax per person. I'm glad you're here. I realize somewhere, you have to make money for the government funds. I am fully aware of this - but to explain the various names of taxes, as this seems to be, green taxes, when there are in many cases no research or plans or plans for their influence or whether the government will do something about the release of the existing projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u72	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in income tax laws and public payment laws, which include extensive dresser reforms to the public. Since 2013 taxes on individuals have been the issue of government priorities. During 2014●2018, taxes were reduced by nearly 25 billion per year and increased households' income resources accordingly. In the ensuing of collective agreements, the government introduced an even greater reduction in income taxes and changes in the tax system. In all, the changes will include a total of 21 billion. memory spells at homes when they are fully implemented. That's about 10% of the government's income income tax paid by individuals. This reduction will fully occur over two years instead of the first three-year induction programme. The reduction in taxes is greatly responsible for the tax burden of low income and intermediate income groups and intensification of revenues. So it supports economic stability because of the timing of the economy. In addition to this bill, contributions to children's benefits are being made that are especially for those who earn less money. This bill suggests changes to tax laws, which are part of the budget for 2020. The changes are four different kinds of things. First, a three - step income tax system, in two steps, is proposed to replace the current two - step level limit. Second, a two - year provisional law suggests a change in how the sum of a person's discount takes place annually, assuming that the taxation limit increases according to the index value of consumer prices. Third, a proposal for further extension to two years on temporary regulations requiring a change in the share of the income tax strain at the index price instead of the pay sheet. Fourth it is suggested that the lower limit of child improvement be increased. I'm now going to step on individual factors specifically, first the income tax of individuals. The main factors of the fiasco change are the inclusion of a three-stage income tax system. The new baseline level will be 5.5% lower than the current baseline level and will be the base of the new system 31.44%, which is taken into account by average response. In contrast, a new midpoint will be 1% higher than the current base level. The no-effect thresholds will be maintained on the real value by reduction of the character discount along with the induction of a new step, which will be taken into account after the induction of the changes, inflation and production of labor forces. All I want to say about this factor is that it is a huge change to get the tax shortages and the personal discount on a new standard. There has been some debate that the step limit has been adhered to the pay number while the personal discount has been followed by the consumption index. When salary increases over the index price in the country, it can be said that over time there is a tax exchange. It has been a masquerade in labour markets and governments. Besides, there are a measure of disproportionate reasons for these topics. Of course, it also leads to the fact that if we had used the consumption of the levels on the steplines, we would also be born in the IRS, and this is a suggestion in this bill that we would adopt a new reference for both instances, both the personal discount and the steplines, which is the production of labour force. I need to express my deep satisfaction that this change is acceptable. Over a period of time, this should guarantee that the tax system will not take place. Of course, we are looking at the average trend over time, but normally the pay should not change beyond what is being produced. None of this will prevent a person from making a special decision to set a personal discount to a certain amount of money, or if that is part of the budget, a better annual reference than the one we've spent in the past few years in my opinion. The development of tax-and-depth thresholds will follow these criteria and ensure that the resulting automatic fluctuation of the system is distributed evenly across all revenue groups. The changes in taxes will be made in step as previously indicated and are expected to increase the provision of the households by 21 billion. when they will be fully implemented in 2021. With the creation of a three-stage system, the equation role of the system will be maintained and, to a degree, more than that of the tax system to date, a special appeal was made to the labour market under the circumstances that had created there to ensure that there would be room for tax streams to be used in particular the lower end of the income sector. With these changes it is clear that the target is reached, and we have seen that after the main involvement of this process was introduced, a very important bargain deal was reached in Iceland. With the tax reduction associated with these changes, the provision of the largest income groups will increase by more than 120,000 dollars. every year, including from 2021. Next year's scores will translate 7.5 billion. reduction in income taxation that year. This decrease increases the provision of households and will become manifest to some extent in consumer taxes. It is not easy to say in advance, but it is at an appropriate time for the economy when there was little room for pay. These are a little rear-loaded agreements in terms of this process, and they call it a good match with another what's happening, e.g. ... toprojectmoneyways. That's a little over 10,000 bucks, then. a month's tax reduction for those with about 325,000 bucks. In the next few years, the decrease in income will reach the tax-free thresholds that will follow the prices and spread through the income ladder, although the effects will fade away as higher is in the income ladder. I'd like to go back to the changes proposed to the children's reform system as well here. The total child - welfare expenditure rate in 2020 is estimated to be 13.1 billion. During the year's prices, it is an increase of 1 billion. ... inexploitedyear. These increases lead to the planned changes in the control height of the child-replacement system, and these changes are part of the government's operation to reduce underpayers in relation to the biographer contract called signed in the year. The changes proposed in the bill are that the decrease in the share of income-based child improvement in single parents increases from 3.6 million per year to 3.9 million per year, i.e. From 300,000 to 325,000. per month. That means, for example. that to a single parent who earns all his income from pay and pays 4% of the debt in a pension fund, there is no impairment of child reform up to 338,542 k. per month. However, the cutoff of the children's income reforms by partners increases annually from 7.2 billion. K. To 7.8 billion. K., i.e. of 600,000. in a month to 650,000 K. per month. This means, in a comparable way, that if partners make all their incomes of pay and pay 4% of the debt in a pension fund, there is no impairment of child reform by partners up to 677,084k. in the combined monthly remuneration. I've studied the key elements of the bill. It's turning to the income tax of individuals in the first place. Then there's a second cut-off for the pediatrics and an implementation. I'm just going to step in at the end of this, that we have in the basics we've worked with this year, and especially with the financial programme, assumed that there might be changes in the balance between husband and wife, especially with regard to the efficiency of the steps. Of course, the discussion of the underlying circumstances has had an effect and has only been brought into the discussion of these changes. In this bill, there is no suggestion for a change in marital coordination, which means, first of all, that married couples and partners will continue to be able to make taxes, thus making a new personality discount. For example, it was never during the discussion to make changes. For the combination of the steps, the protocol is completely unchanged, but it will have certain effects on the efficiency of the steps for the recovery of a new tax level. It will also affect the efficiency of steps to make a percentage change in the middle phase. That's what I'd like to say. Likewise, a husband and wife will continue to be allowed to cooperate with each other and with the efficiency of steps. Especially if we look at all those who have used a partner's tax step, despite these effects, the overall effect of the bill in lowering taxes is the result of my picking up taxes. I've been over the fact that the overall impact of the bill is worth 21 billion bucks. of 2021 C.E. About 7.5 billion return to their homes next year to a tax reduction. It should be taken into account that, in part, the tax decline due to 2020 was not until stress in 2021 before 2020, when the final taxation of the partners is available. This will affect next year's evaluation for government income, i.e. It is not obvious that the assessment of influence for home and on the income of the state's funds is combined because of the way the resolution takes place after the application of income taxes. The total rate of child reform in 2020 is estimated to be 13.1 billion. At the rate of the year. It is an increase, as mentioned earlier, about 1 billion. Together, it is quite clear that if this bill remains by law, it will provide considerable additional provisions for the households, especially young people, and the low income. This is important because of where we are in the economy. This is a major part of government operations to promote reconciliation in a workforce, which will hopefully result in the stability of the economy needed to restore the demand. The impact of the bill on government administration and its institutions is negligible. The budget will be of several revenues, at least Lately, we are not particularly good at evaluating the overall impact on the government's income on such matters. We tend to try to examine this in a double model, as I have sometimes said. However, there will be more crowns for administration at the homes that will have some indirect effect in the state. I would also like to state that with the third tax step there is a certain return from a change made a few years ago when we cut down the middle phase. Of course, I have to keep it in mind that it was primarily a tax minimization procedure, and it may have had a good effect in the conditions that were then in the labour market to support contracts in ways that were not the most needed today. At that time, various intermediate groups received relatively little from the collective agreements and the action to eliminate the middle phase at that time was very important under these circumstances. Despite the reinstatement of the third tax step, this tax change can be said as well as the first that it is primarily for a reduction in tax. I'll just tell them by the end of this discussion, a respectable president, that I offer all possible financial assistance to evaluate the impact of the case and to cover different stage photos if necessary. We've done everything we can to explain the effects to the extent possible and I suggest, more honored President, that this bill will be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and to the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of this review and celebrate the changes this is being made to the income tax system. I know the third step is the highest row. Ministers may not necessarily like it, but it seems to me that this route yields the desired results, although other methods have been introduced to the same level, i.e. to return the benefits to the most efficient groups. On the other hand, I wondered only about the changes announced on the child - welfare system as I welcome the additional amount of money in child support. It's been wanting to burn, especially when income is growing, that we burn up the children's relief system, and we don't let it get into the pay grade. It's been a delight for the past few years. But it seems to me that when I look at the effect now, it could have been done a lot better to focus this on the most efficient groups. I'm pointing, for example. that a married couple with twice the income of a single parent receive 60,000 dollars. increase in minimum balance levels while a single parent receives 30,000 K. increase. [[The president calls.]] If it wasn't possible, the bottom line would be out. Minister, fix this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u74	A respectable president. It's always an assessment how to make these changes. A few years ago, we began raising the total amount of money in child damage, but at the same time, we add to the damages. This provided significant increases at the base of the income ladder, but less proportionately above that level. I'm in general the opinion, and this has long been debated here at the council, that supporting systems such as child reform are primarily at home with those below average income and perhaps around them. But there are others who don't want to reduce child damage and regard this as part of the tax system, that it's just like paying taxes against having children, and thus it's the accepted cost of having children, etc. But I'm still working with a system that most supports those at the bottom, and it's always a question whether you've gone far enough or if you should have another extraction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u75	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. We have been criticized for exactly this, that we are basically in the middle, not as a general support for having children, but as a primary source of support to the most efficient groups. Alternatively, e.g. In this context, we point out that we will immediately begin to cut down on minimal incomes of qualified adults. You might wonder: " Is it not appropriate to let a poor child's compensation get something a little higher than just to all the earners? I think the minimum labour market wage will be about 335,000 next year on collective contracts. That's the money we're beginning to cut down on the child support. So I call for it, and I hope that there may be a position in a financial and business committee, at least personally will put me in line for a review of this system, so that children's reforms may be slightly higher than those of the stairs, but then there must be a more efficient decline to the intermediate or something like that, to direct them first to the level of income.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u76	A respectable president. I'm not against people wondering how this could come out with other boundaries and other percentages of impairments. But I'm generally worried that as we raise the benefits more and more effort to leave them at the bottom of the income ladder, it calls for a higher percentage of impairments and that for children's families in general, it leads to a higher limitation taxes, the benefits of adding to 100,000 dollars. in pay, e.g. by working on extra jobs or promotions, training and changing jobs, etc., becoming extremely small at the end of the day because of the loss of the child's ability to give up on every 10,000 bucks in the family. magazines are raised by family income. It is always a matter of how we act on the right motivation and what is fair and what is not fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u77	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance on what may not be in this bill, and there are changes to the capital tax. I wondered if any changes were not possible there. As we have a situation today, Iceland has the lowest fiscal tax in all the North countries and, in fact, according to the financial bill, is expected to be a lower proportion of capital income taxes, as a proportion of land productions between years, and also in the quarter. There have been ideas in the Ministry of finance to protect capital owners from inflation, so to speak, by initiating taxation on real growth instead of on Name raise when it comes to capital gain. It's not in this bill, and I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister has fallen from an idea of going a way that, in my opinion, is unnatural and complex and would be very peculiar that we were taking capital owners out of the way, especially in view of the fact that inflation will no doubt come up. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister if it is not possible to simply raise the pay factor when it comes to financing taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u78	A respectable president. Regarding the holiday goal, we raised it two years ago, and it can be said that a higher income target is the way we have resisted the percentage increase. I'm not quite ready to swallow it unconcerned that Iceland's capital income taxes are much lower than North countries because even if the percentage is higher than in this country, there's no end to the term. That's the overall effect of the capital taxation you have to assess to figure out which side of the tax is bigger. We haven't left this review yet. I think it is absolutely impossible to maintain taxation as such. takes from humans all physical growth. We only see things like the University of Iceland's scholarship fund. In times of inflation and low fruit, the tax results in the memory of a fund at the end of the year but in the absence of the tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u79	Mr. President. I'm not taking to heart the University's scholarship fund in particular, but I find this interesting in a country where 1% of the richest people have more pure assets according to tax returns than 80% of the population. This is a team that can carry more taxes. We also see that 5% of the richest population has a similar amount of pure possessions as the other 95% so that it is the group I believe can carry more taxes, especially in the years ahead. We see that only 2% of families paid capital taxes for stock markets so that this taxation can be properly set aside to the most widely available group in this country. That's why I think it's a very peculiar politics if we're specifically defending this group, the richest group of Icelanders, for the coming inflation shot. It would be strange for the left to support it, but it may not be surprising from the independents. I'm the highest. A minister more than he can bring in a higher netmark, it's more reasonable, and he can get tax reductions by it. That's a tax cut-off. The Conspiracy can be brief.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u80	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that it's interesting to check the history of income.is. The 1991 income development of the country can be examined with and without capital tax. Hv. A senator says that these people can better carry taxation and tolerate higher taxation, etc. I think it's a discussion that needs to go deeper and ask about the role of the budget. Where's the funding to work? What are the motivations for making money produce valuables in the community? When have taxes increased so much that people escape the environment? It is only a matter of discussing whether there is any purpose in the hands of individuals, that there is any advantage in putting it to work in order to create jobs and value in the country. Free interest markets have been on the market, not on interest, but I have the light for the real interest, not for taxation that comes from human interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u81	Mr. President. A third tax step and a decrease in income tax is a good price, and I also appreciate the explanation. Ministers should be changed on criteria. Still, I wondered why this is done by starting to lower the personal discount. It is well known that an increase in personality rhythms has greater equations on the income of the lowest income groups than on comparable tax declines. This is exactly the way to reduce a person's discount and then to reduce the tax in a way that most people will probably have a tax reduction, but it is much smaller than it would have been. I think it's necessary for us to talk about this in the big context because it seems to be an intermediate tax reduction mostly. It was said by spring that there was supposed to be a frozen rise in personality discounts for two years. Now it's about to go down. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance on his general view of personality discounts, only theoretically, and his role, how he saw to it that he was to develop over the years and even decades, considering the real and present situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u82	A respectable president. It is true that we assumed that he would be frozen in a dollar number in previous exports but that we took a larger step to reduce this new bottom level was necessary to reduce the percentage of characters, which, in fact, were to lower him. to finance the operation. The operation was specifically designed to achieve the maximum effect of the reduction in taxes, with the most commonly called. I think it's going well. What is the role of the personal discount? It's called tax steps. Tax levels and tax percentages, however, are formed by the person's discount. In the years to come, the noxieties will follow the prices, and I believe that's just a normal development. When asked about the role and greater context of the parts, I'd like to refer to a report published last year. Axel Hall was chairman of a special staff group who compiled that report. [[The president calls.]] I'd say that it reveals that we have a well-controlled tax system today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u83	Mr. President. That's an interesting answer. The choice simply stood between replacing the personal discount or even raising it as it has been, or reducing it, and reducing the income tax in return. Then it's about where the greatest demand for a tax reduction was. Was the problem just that there may have been some people in the community who didn't have enough loud claims for taxes? Or is it perhaps more ideological, that personality discount is somehow basically bad? I think he's really good. He is a very powerful influence. I totally understand the view that he's worse than a flat tax. I think it is important that we make it clear how this should develop in the light of the fact that it is very important for many to feel that a personal discount is powerful, and just keep going. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u84	In spite of interesting exchanges, the president has to ask for it. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to observe deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u85	A respectable president. The character discount alone has no independent significance without being associated with the tax steps and the tax percentages. This is in reality the exact same conclusion about the default target by keeping the character discount lower and the bottom steps at the same time as having the personal discount higher and having it held the same level but starting in a higher percentage. This interaction makes up the holiday goal, so I think we should be looking at the perks. What I meant was when I was referring to Axel Hallur's report and the committee he was conducting, there's numbers on the labour system, how much the proportion of people who earn money in Iceland paid income taxes over their heads. This ratio has gone up in Iceland but is only in a normal place today compared to the North countries. Since there are more participants in income taxation today than before, the percentages in general may be lower. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u86	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill about individual income taxes, baby benefits and personal discounts. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: There was a 2.5% increase in charges, but this time it was due to the decrease of the personal discount by 3,000 cents. ... atthefirsttime. Three thousand. decrease in personal discount means that most pension workers are missing from taxes more than 1.5% of their income. But for high-priority guys like us senators, that means a zero point. Would it not be much closer to keeping this thing intact, as could be done with a work - at - cost goal? Or to raise the discount and continue to raise it according to the price paid? Or third, to let him evict, to benefit most of those on the lowest wage, and then to escape, and to those with the highest wage?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u87	A respectable president. I think I'm right when I say that through history, this centennial fee was paid most often. However, in less recent times in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, only an increase has generally taken place that corresponds with theflation aim of the Federal Bank. This means that these expenditures have all been gathering over time down to real value, especially when we took into account that one year we had no rise. When asked, " Wouldn't it be best to raise the cost? ' To illustrate: Yes, it would be best not to raise those expenses, but there is some cost. It's just a question where you're going to get your money elsewhere for your expenses, including to the social security and other financiers that have to be financed. So I think that me and what. A senator might long agree if we continue to discuss what taxes would be good to get rid of, but somewhere, the discussion must end, and we need to discuss what will be left behind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u88	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. Still, it is unfashionable that a personal discount will benefit best from those on the lowest wage, both the professional and the pension. Then there is another connection with child - welfare. As far as I'm concerned, a couple at 325,000 will be affected. monthly remunerations for each individual patient. This is under the minimum wage required. That's where child support begins to be cut off by some teenage nail. Is that normal? Is it possible to start cutting pediatrics on such low numbers? If it is to be returned to children, it must especially be returned to children who live in the worst terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u89	A respectable president. When we look at the total budget that goes to children's benefit, I think we can agree that this is a very large and important part of the budget. It's on another tens of billions. These are over 10 billion, up to twelve billion, rising by now, and it goes straight into the country's pocket of a family of children. This is what I feel to be the point of the matter, how much support this is when we examine the total number. How we should precisely set it for impairments and impairment rates and when to start cutting and how far up the child's pay points should be distributed - there may be more than one examination. All I'm saying is that perimeter taxes get too high and think this is a good system that we're building. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u90	Mr. President. The emphasis on the bill is primarily due to decisions that were not taken in this room or on the part of the government alone. These measures, tax change and injection into the child-replacement system are primarily due to an agreement made by the labour market partners. Many of the suggestions for child development have been directly dropped, not even twice, not three times, but four times in this hall since the government began its reign. The labour market partners agree, set the government against the wall, and achieve the result of bringing in the third tax step that I think is a cause of joy, achieve one rise, one small bit in my opinion, to the child reform system, which you, of course, celebrate, to every cent in that system. On the contrary, the initiative to make political decisions is not in the government. On the contrary, it has shown that it is trying to prevent them from taking similar steps as this is in order to be maintained. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has repeatedly spoken against having three tax steps here introduced. We have often managed how much we should add to the child - welfare system. I would like this brief speech of tax matters to mention three other forms of income that I think the government should consider when it is time to face the decline that is already begun and we need to respond in some way if it is not to be cut down on the welfare services. I've mentioned a few of these stings before today. First, I'd like to mention the capital tax I could do in return to the highest level. Minister. The fiscal tax is an important tax base. He should not be too tall, of course not. The amount of money is supposed to multiply and earn, and we want a fair tax system. The United States and I don't think there's any particular reason to have the lowest tax percentage capital income in Iceland of all the North countries. I don't think there's any particular reason to protect the group that mostly pays money tax because the largest part of the country pays no money tax on the loan market. Because of the cost market, a lot of people are getting caught off paying the capital tax, a lot of people with some kind of capital money money. It may be a suitable tax base to include those who have very much possessions, own stocks, interest, interest, etc. In this sermon, I have repeatedly pointed out that there is a measure of property at hand. I know there's a lot of revenue in Iceland, but I'm onto property level. I have repeatedly pointed to numbers that come from Haguems, suggesting that the income balance is considerable. I hope that members of Congress forgive me for repeating myself that 1% of the population owns more pure property than 80% owns and 5% owns equal to 95%. Similarly, we see how evolution is developing. Less than half of all clean possessions produced in 2016 came to the richest 10% of the population. Less than half of the clean possessions created in 2016 went to 10% of the population. 11% of the new wealth produced by 2011-2016 ran into the richest 1% of the population. Looking back on income, it shows that total income, with capital gains, at the top of 5% of the country's income was 23% of the total income. According to Creditinfo's data, only ten people - the most important individuals - pay less than one third of their money in Icelandic society. In Icelandic society, ten people have one third of their own money. According to a new report from Oxfam, Iceland is the longest in all of the northern countries when it comes to fighting roughness. Therefore, we are to take up a discussion about whether we cannot combat inequities and, at the same time, provide the natural funding of a government fund by raising the capital tax. Page number two I'd like to mention likewise should not surprise anyone. There's an increase in resource costs, and then I mean both fishing expenditures and expenditures of our energy. We can see that the fishing road has been very successful. Of course, you want the fishing road to succeed. We are to be proud of Icelandic fishing companies, and they have been very successful in international comparison. In fact, the past few years have referred to the golden age of the Icelandic Seabed. A year of gold is an expression that LIVE used in its own time period for the 2009 -2016 season. If we look at the profits in Icelandic fishing roads, there are huge profits in Icelandic fishing for that period. During seven years, from 2019,2016, an Icelandic fishing industry gained about 340 billion. Similarly, the load that goes to the owner of the companies has been very great. In three years, it was 40 billion. This week, statistics showed that the Samherian Association's profits, in part abroad, were 112 billion in eight years. Much of the work is based on the use of a common resource owned by the nation. The seafood companies do not have the fish in the water by law, and it is very peculiar that of the nation's key resource, a government fund is ready to obtain only about 1% of its revenues for efficiency. It is also very interesting to see that when this government succeeded, the fishing budget was more than 11 billion, but now it is heading for 7 billion. It's a 40% reduction. Fish costs have dropped by 40% since the government began, and this is a very interesting priorities. I would also like to put these figures in context to mention that the price of fishing available to one of the earth's best marine stocks is now approaching the tobacco charge in sums. If we allow another comparison to pay students in Iceland at school fees and check-ins about one fifth of what an Icelandic seabed company paid for access to an Icelandic marine resource. So it's a business way for us to look at the state. Third, it's the wealth tax, and it has to do with the amount of property I had been able to handle earlier. We're supposed to reexamine the wealth tax, make it possible that income-related to ensure that people, for example, are involved. lives in a large house, however it may be, but with a small income, it is excluded. There's also a income stock I thought the Icelandic government should look at. As I've said before, money doesn't grow on trees, it's going to be available to the people and businesses of the country, and in some way we need to be able to finance the well - being that most people, if not all classes agree that we need to stay here. These are three income stocks completely ignored by the government parties and I think we should take a look at them. With regard to the income tax, I agree with other members of Congress, I think it is wise to have the third step, and it is wise to try to establish priorities so that the least will come to those who have. I'm just going to trust that the Minister's calculations are correct in this regard. It is interesting, however, that the labor movement, ASI, has criticized the late arrival of income taxation, but we leave it between parts of it for now. In regard to child welfare, the addition to which the government has been boasting about 0.1% of the budget. It's the injection in the child-replacement system. I think we can do a lot better than that. If we look at the whole child - welfare system, it's more than 1% of the budget. 99% of what we're talking about isn't going to get a baby's settlement. Again, I think we should spit more into this system. This is an important part of our welfare system and of a group that suffers certain costs at a specific time in their lives. We need to consider better support for family members. We see it's expensive to live in Iceland, and I think we should focus on trying to make Iceland less expensive, whether through the improving system or through consumer prices and imports and other things, because this is a point that puts Iceland's family in a very difficult position to make ends meet. Mr. President. I'll do it, but I'm looking forward to a further discussion on tax issues all winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u91	A respectable president. I have to make a comment on this approach to resource costs on the marine road and point out that these are not the only incomes of the resource that the state of the resource can make are the special taxes. These specific taxes are absolutely unique. There is nowhere else to go in a similar way. In many countries, while we have specific taxes in Iceland and a considerable amount of money, there are some huge subsidies on the fishing road. It is impossible to minimize the fact that specific taxes are imposed in excess of the other sector by about 10 billion, and then they are involved in the government's tax revenue of common resource use based on the one specific taxation. What about the stamps? What about the carbon bills? What about all the surveillance charges? What about the corporate income taxes themselves? What about the insurance bill for all employees? What is the full amount of service? What about the merit tax? What about the export revenues? How much is worth it? In almost every case, the cost of sacrifice is estimated to be ten billion. So that would be the more specific tax we lost. There is no single profession and such taxation can be discussed in such limited ways. Actually, there's a why. A senator is going into the discussion about whether or not we should accept fees for access to a limited resource in this way or some other way, as often discussed in the conference hall, and there is a worthy discussion. But I have to make comments that this is set to allow the sole benefit of using the resource to be these specific taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u92	Mr. President. The price of hunting is a special currency to companies that use a resource they don't have. Of course, it is perfectly normal for a seafood company such as other companies to pay income taxes, merit taxation, stamp tax, carbon bills, etc. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about a special industry that is based on its existence to use a combined resource. It is this limited supply of resources that can enable its owner to gain profit beyond what is going on and in other employment sectors with comparable risks. The green slide is defined as paying for manufacturing factors, such as capital and workforce, beyond the cost of sacrifice, and is an excess of what is called resource use. There's something called a resource. That's what we're taxing or paying for. It is the approach that is totally justified in having to do with this industry. She's using a resource that doesn't belong to her. She doesn't have that resource. With the ultimate argument. A minister should, however, be a prize of zero. I don't think he has that opinion, but with the same reasoning, the fishing fee should hardly be right in view of the fact that the water, of course, provides all the natural fees, income taxes, and merit taxation, etc. But this special price is justified in the light of the resource. First, because there is limited supply of resources and number two, this common resource is owned by the nation. I have simply pointed out that the way in which I live is warmer than ever. A minister thinks he is. I think it's unnatural that the income of the state's budget is based on a total budget of 1%, when you see the total budget. [[The president calls.]] I think it's all too low, especially when we need every cent in the box to protect the welfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u93	A respectable president. I was not suggesting that we take no price from the fishing grounds in the country. I was just making an observation that would belittled that we were taking 10 billion. That's a very large sum of money. It is a special taxation that other business does not have to deal with, and if we look around, it is so far from likely that these conditions are present in general in the seas that such specific taxation can be required. As I mentioned, there are cases where a person reduces his job as he does the way the fishing road is. But it is true that those who gain priority rights or access to a limited resource can get in a position to gain much benefit from it and that it should be taxed to some extent. However, there must be incentives to invest, to make more valuables. I think it will eventually result in more valuable value for the entire population to lay down taxes in moderation and a more specific taxation as well. Looking back, we will see that the profites of individual fishing have been very swinging. In the ocean, for example. And also in the bullfish, the increase has been very variable from year to year in recent years. All the talk about resource resources, I feel like it's changed a lot since we had a dream that we could make it a kind of tax-based resource. In time, I think we've come to realize that it's a theoretical concept that's unusable as a taxane. Although it is ideological in some of the places behind it as a rationalization of the tax burden, it has proved impossible for us to attach our fingers to exactly what has been the priority of the resource for each of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u94	Mr. President. I'd like to first correct the minister. It's not $10 billion, that's 7 billion. By the time the government began to rule, it was 103/411 billion, but it has been reduced by 40% to 7 billion. I'd like to put this number back in a little context. The bill of a seafaring minister who submitted to the decline of fishing fees gave me very interesting information that I would like to share in this answer. The bill shows that fishing fees have been held. meeting the government's costs for the fishing road, such as research, management, and monitoring. The Kingdom will be at various costs because of the fishing road. It's HQ, surveillance, etc. The cost of the State due to this article is 5 billion. There are 2 billion net bills left to the owner of the resource. 2 billion is not the highest amount, Mr. President, for access to these productive fishing grounds. If we take the cost we're going to have only to monitor and control this resource, there are 2 billion left. That's twice the amount given to the state by traffic fines. We must be able to find an arrangement where this successful industry can contribute more specifically to this. I know it's an important business, and we're supposed to take care of it, and it's supposed to be free and good. But 2 billion net bills to the owner of the resource, the nation is simply too low. We must be able to find a way, however we do, to gain further income from the use of marine resources as well as other common resources of the nation. Then I'm primarily looking to the energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u95	A respectable president. The bill continues to be discussed for the legislation on the change in income tax laws and the laws on the local payment of public pay, income taxes of individuals, child damages, and personal discounts. It's a bit strange if we start examining this tax system's mismanagement because it usually takes the worst on what should be done. Let's just take the example we were discussing earlier in the matter of child welfare, that there were another tens of billions of people who were going to get pedophiles, and that, of course, is a substantial amount. But at the same time, they are expanding at tremendous speeds. Just one example of what I took earlier today is how surveillance agencies have increased tenfold. One monitoring agency has increased tenfold, and some slightly less than the budget has been hit in a short period of time. Let's just take one committee outside the parentheses, the media board, and put it in context. She gets 2018 56 million, and she gets 480 million today. It's almost ten times. At the same time, since 2010, monitoring agencies as a whole have increased by 9 billion. Let's put it in the context of the child's request. It tells itself that this is wrong, especially if we put it in context with how it is demanded and tried to save on a really weird field. Now on, for example. going to save money because there is not enough money to be paid for, for example. physical therapy. And then the lowest of all, when people are being attacked by wheelchairs, paralyzed persons. The savings there may cost such a lot of money to the health system in the form of infections, blood poisoning, even kidney failure, which is very serious for those affected and who have to rely on things that are being saved. They're just throwing thousands of dollars away. It's also completely incomprehensible that at the same time as we're creating a new tax step and trying to prove that the worst paying and the lowest pensions are actually to be paid and the lowest pensions are also due to attack the person's discount. As I say, it would have been a much natural and self-condential thing, as was probably in this bill not raising the holiday limit of micromotives from 101,500 k, not reducing the character discount by 3,000 k. That would have been most rewarding to those who need it. If there is such a great need for a demon in a person's discount, it would have been much closer to making money, just letting him out of the way with a higher income. It tells itself that for a man who's got a quarter of a million and a half. K. The monthly pay is of very little importance to personal discounts compared to those on the striped $27,000. The pensions and getting paid 215,000 bucks, which can't be lived on and barely tow on. It is quite remarkable that people are put on such low - paying incomes. Then there's another one, a cent in favour of the damages that have been discussed here. It is unlikely that the government has been saving itself since its death to older citizens about 40 billion. However, to remove this from a dollar to a dollar of 65 bucks across from a dollar, the amount of savings to the Kingdom will be about 8±9 billion. None of these things are to be returned to those most in need who are pension workers and poorer, or the poor mostly, of course, because of the fact that older citizens'pensions have been turned into what they have already earned. Then there's the other one that's forgotten all of this, and there's the biographies. They seem to be, and they're for everyone except those who need them the most. It looks like it's been completely forgotten, and no one seems to be doing anything in the end of their dress. The pay of pensions would have to be sure to be increased by about 50 to 660 percent in order for pensioners to have the same elevations that others have received. And, of course, it is surprising that the lowest paid is always gone because we know that those in the lowest pensions and pay most of their taxes in response to the rural community. You make a sound when you realize that those who are on capital taxes and are the richest, the most rich, pay nothing to the countryside and just have 22% taxes. It tells itself that if we put it in touch with the new tax step, which is about 35% that it is given wrong. It is wrong to give to those who would need it more. It would be a lot normal if we just turned it around, 35% tax on capital pay, 22% tax on the ones at the lowest rate. Then we would have started to talk correctly, and we would really show ourselves to be thinking of those whom the State has a duty to make sure that they have decent conduct. Our primary obligation is to those who do not have a knife and spoon, who cannot survive the month, have no rent, do not have food for the family, and who are concerned about whether they can have a head for their own food or a meal for their children. In our rich society, it's not supposed to be like this. We are to use the tax system to make sure that things aren't like that. Therefore, it is remarkable that these efforts are not being made to reverse. If there is no money to sustain the system, it must say to itself, we must tax more people who have the best money and move to the others because all increases have so much more impact on all the individual incomes that are at the lowest price. We can only see that next year the tax change is estimated to be due to those at the lowest wage rate of 3,475. That's what this is for. Only by not increasing the cost target has been taken from the individuals who take advantage of it 2,500 bucks, so there'll be little left over there, plus all the other fees raised. The intermediate group should receive 2,851 K. and the less, which is just the best. But I'm afraid when it's up, it'll be much worse than it looks now because all we need is to look at the global prices of oil rising. How does that affect us? How quickly will it eat up this benefit and taxation? I'm most afraid, and it's clear to me that, unfortunately, there will be no tax reductions for the worst of the people and those who are at the lowest pay and pay. And it should be a duty for those who come up in this chair to calculate this to the end, which I feel really serious not to do, to come with the right numbers, not only tax downs, but also what to raise and exactly how much and how much it does. We can calculate this even if we do not have accurate local numbers, but there the rise will also strike what should be least. I think it's time, and it's our duty to show by our actions that we're thinking about those who are trying best to climb out there in hopeless incomes, which in no way work for a decent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u96	Madam President. What may first call attention to the proposed tax system changes presented in this bill is a ideological change in the Independence Party, which has regularly spoken about simplifying the tax system. A meeting of the United States has concluded this, and the head of the party has spoken of it, and not long ago. Financial and economic secretary mentioned that three tax systems were overworked and should rather be watched by the personal discount as a means of achieving further results. In many ways, I agree with the highest. The financial and economic minister like that, and this is a little interesting in view of what the Independence Party has been preaching and speaking for a long time. The tax system is being complicated and I'm coming in after it. Of course, we in the Central Party celebrate all the tax reductions, and taxes are being dropped on the lowest income, which is a cause for joy, since there is no high income. However, there is a question about the most reasonable ways in which we can do this. What needs to be discussed in the discussion is the effect of the taxation change on remuneration in the upper middle class. Will this be the case when the remunerations show up after the change, that group sees an increased tax burden? Therefore, some kind of example must be answered, which shows that this is not the case, as stated, that 1% of the upper intermediate income is equal in another way. There is something that has not been answered sufficiently by my judgment. I cut by one of the highest. The secretary of the budget said in a speech given earlier when discussing the effects on the balance of levels. It was, in fact, a very special case that started with this budget bill, i.e. Indistinguishable information on whether or not there is a need to reduce the degree of cataplexy. The Middle Class and I traced it to a talk about the budget. It says in the financial and financial programmes bill that it should be reduced and even reduced, followed by a financial announcement that it will not be. These are all very misleading information that is unpleasant. To some extent, the minister of finance has explained this but not sufficiently to my judgment when he says that it will have certain effects on the balance of levels. We need to clarify this. This cannot be stated without anyone saying whether any community groups are going to cause a bad outcome. It's essential that this be observed. We have spoken for a simpler tax system, to have it as simple and beneficial and efficient as possible. It is designed to build up the increased value structure of the economy, thus reducing the cost of government management when it comes to tax issues and to reduce the motivation of the economy. Then, it is natural that simple tax systems increase transparency. It's very important. The easier the tax system gets, the easier it is to have discussions about the effects of the tax system and how the loads spread on different groups. A reduction in taxes, as we know, is a strong motivation for governments to examine seriously the ways in which they can save and manage their business and that is one of the things the media has spoken for, that it is important to reduce the expansion of the booth. It is quite surprising that the independence party in this government community has been slacking off. The party has repeatedly spoken about the need to reduce the state's presentation and suggestions on putting down institutions, etc. But there is no sign of it in the government community service, and it is perfectly obvious that the Independence Party and his ideologies in that matter have been subject to a lower share in the other administration categories. In part, the talk on tax issues in Iceland is a little attached to the habit, as it were. Unfortunately, few new ideas appear. Let us not forget that it is the strength of a small economy and a small country such as Iceland that they have supported communications in the government system. This has made it relatively efficient, which is a good matter and gives us an opportunity to offer simple and good taxation systems, with low ratios, clear rules, and minimal priors. These are all the goals we should pursue and thereby increase our competitiveness, including those of foreign investors and exports. But it has to be said that at the present time, there may be a tendency to be reluctant to talk about taxes. It's like there's always only two ways, i.e. to increase the income of the state by increasing taxes or by adding a number of costs, including ... onworklife. We need to be a little more open and productive in this regard. We should not be afraid to examine e.g. the sum of taxes on income - is it something that might be good for us, regardless of our background? -...than having a lot of different taxes on different incomes. These are all the views that we should look at and be open to finding new ways, not entangle the tax system, as we do with these suggestions. There could have been other ways to reduce taxes on the lowest income. We in the Central Party support the idea that this is done, but it's a matter of guidance and being a little fertile and creative to think of simple and better tax systems. There's a little bit of invention missing from the government to find a way, explore new ways to level the tax burden in a positive way, but simplify the system at the same time. An example that shows how the tax system is complicated is when the host tax is put on about 100 cents. on the night of the night at first, which may have been a small amount, yet it was accompanied by a significant writing that natural means also cost money. These are things that must be considered when new taxes are laid down and should be handled with caution in this regard. We have experience in reducing income taxes on a company, which clearly shows that the government can simplify the system and lower the taxes, while increasing its income. This was an introduction to this discussion, Mrs. President, which I wanted to come to. In Iceland, we're going to try to simplify the tax system. We are to present ourselves as a country that offers one of the most efficient tax systems in the world. This would increase our advantage and competitiveness. This is an old-fashioned route here where the system is mixed up, as I mentioned earlier. It is necessary to approach the issues with an open mind and, of course, to improve the resources of those with the lowest wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u97	A respectable president. Only because of the word "whoops." A member of the Council of Independence Party's ideologies and the fact that a new tax step is evidence of this. I just have to start by saying that there was one group that most talked about paying taxes before the last election, and his credibility was often undermined when taxes struck. Nevertheless, it is now the result of collective agreements, such as men know - and we thought it was predictable - that employers would not be able to accept all the burdens of unions required in dressbacks. That is why taxes would have to play a major role in getting peace in the labour market. At the end of the day, the tax step is added but only to ensure that the tax decline, of course the main issue, is in line with the workforce. This draws down a certain tax burden line. It's drawing up that it's coming down, right down in that delicate pay range. In case of a moment. A senator is talking about us as being on a different route, speaking directly for a tax - system conversion that would either go much further up the tax ladder and cost much more or simply fail to provide the benefits to the underpaying groups of this way. And that really is the question of being left behind: is it? A senator's point of view is that we should have taken a personal discount that would have brought less to the most efficient groups and more up the pay ladder, or what is actually being suggested?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u98	Madam President. What I meant in my speech by the independent ideology of the government is that I think it is clear that a group that has spoken about simplifying the tax system like the Independence Party, often spoken that way, the conclusions of a national meeting, etc., is now making changes in the tax system. I think it is very clear that here independence has not carried out the policy that has repeatedly been concluded in their case. When it comes to correcting the minimum remuneration, which is very important in my mind and in our middle class, there are other ways. There's the personal discount and the tax limit, and I'm sure we'll take a look at it. The purpose is to reduce taxes on the lowest income, and it is simply necessary to put together a good team of experts to review what is most easily involved. So I say to the highest. Economic and Economic Ministers: This was carefully reviewed, as e.g. The tax-free line? It's got the highest self. Financial and economic ministers said, just not so long ago, that he thought a person's discount was very good and sensible. My introduction to this discussion is that there should be all possibilities to be considered, to be open to various ideas and changes, but not to the way the system entangles the system, increases the costs of the state, reduces transparency, etc. Nevertheless, I reiterate the importance of working on a common goal that all of us have, i.e. to reduce taxes to the lowest wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u99	A respectable president. It may be a very good argument, and I have done so in the past, that one tax step with a relatively high tax limit draws up a tax burden line which may be quite fair. It's the tax burden line that eventually tells the whole story. There are benefits and defects in all exports. In this particular matter we are dealing with, the primary option is that everyone's tax load is reduced. Second, we have a new set of standards for personal discounts and the set of sums that are also very good. Third, of course, it is a personal goal to support the collective agreement. You can't afford to just live in your own fantasy world about what laws and rules should look like. You have to find some balance with the environment. And while there may be evidence that more tax steps are up to some degree in order to complicate the tax system, it is not directly claimed to have been very simple in advance, i.e. that it is simple for people to find out, knowing who the discount is, and who the income taxation product is, and then the taxprosentan that will be received, each tax burden is on its own, especially when we start talking about the improvements and restrictions that are being added, in the growth reform system, and in the child-replacement system, etc. It's simply a complex system, and not all is solved by having two, not three, taxes. It does not add much to the complexity of the parts that appear to us as we review the tax and reformal systems covered, with an outback and all. [[The president calls.]] However, I have emphasized that the pay for stress at the taxpayer's disposal was trying to make it as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u100	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister and think deep down he just agrees with me, that it would have been best to simplify the tax system. As I said before, it adds to the transparency and efficiency and reduces tax expenditures, etc. So at the end of the day, I think the Central Party and Independence have some common ideologies when it comes to simplifying the tax system. Hopefully, someday we'll have the opportunity to work together and simplify the tax system. Who knows? It would be a pleasure to have an opportunity to try to simplify this system because I think it can increase our advantage in various ways. As I mentioned earlier, when we reduced taxes on a company at the time, it was a very reasonable decision that actually increased the income of a government fund. There are ways to be considered. There is no need for a measure of boldness to examine, such as. Just a flat tax. I'm not saying that it should be hung up, but I say it should be looked at all ways. It's the most important thing in this, that we find the simplest and best way, and that's where we just agree, me and the highest. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u101	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the law of a special tax on a financial enterprise. It's a re transferred bill, it's been proposed to a 149th legislature but it's actually changed a few times. I especially need to call attention to the recording, which is actually the change I'm referring to. At 149 C.E., it was a total of 826 p.m. 1317, went to the Economic and Business Committee after the 1st. Thereafter, the treatment was not completed. This bill aims to establish laws that harmonize with governments's plans that appear in the budget of the government of 2020/2024. This is in line with the changes in the budget of June. a reduction of the tax rate by one year was expected to be delayed. The bill suggests that changes in the laws mentioned above have to do with a decline in currency within four steps over the years of 20203/2024. In the case of the bill's law, the review will yield to a lower currency rate, allowing it to continue at 0.1-45% from 2024, with a currency rate available today in 0.37%. The changes proposed in the bill will reduce the tax pay of the state's funds from what would otherwise have occurred between 20213/4,2024 by 1.7 billion. During 2021 and up to 8 billion dollars. in the 2024 income year. For an employee, this means a lower tax burden and a lower operating cost. There is also an increased likelihood for the reduction in costs for needy customers in the form of lower interest on loans and higher interest on loans. By means of the bill, we meet with the criticism of stakeholders but also with white books on a vision for the financial system that highlights the reduction of the specific taxes on the financial system as the greatest opportunity in the state to reduce growth. It is therefore suggested that the tax decline be legalized, even if it takes effect in four steps over the years 2021◯2024. I'd like to state that I think it is a very reasonable arrangement to have a vision in these matters, that there are times when it is a good thing to legalize changes, even if they take effect so that they lie in the will of the law. There's a big difference between having such a part in a financial program or just making it legalized. I'll have to say at the same time that it's kind of a warning for us to postpone our execution compared with what we had in the past. This is because we suffered unforeseen events this year in the economy and had to take measures. These are the arrangements that come with it. In this matter, you might have wondered, " Should I have started at a slow beginning but end up in the same place where I left you? ' So here is all the reductions that came in step: one year, compared with what was previously discussed. The white book makes it very clear that this tax is Specialist. He's going to put a lot of weight on the financial companies in Iceland, but taxes on finance are doing in general elsewhere. A good tablet in the White Book highlights the impact on the growth rate of the financial companies, so this is certainly a case that has made significant income money, but I have to remind that the greatly higher the growths we made in these taxes were always thought to be temporary, and it's normal for us to move back to it, now that the recovery of the broken farms is done, and the bank's economic account is becoming more healthy, underestimated all the other things that had been done before, have been re-evaluated the property side and the banks back in standard business, to get other factors of the business, as well as the tax environment back to normal. I believe that it can pay in better terms for the bank's businessmen. We must believe that with the bank environment in Iceland, we can create a great competition that it is important to trust the environment, that not everything will be inserted into the owners' pocket, but the owner to the two-thirds of the banking system, I am referring to this three systematicly important banks, is exactly the Icelandic state. During this election period, efforts have been made to reduce the government's ownership of financial companies, and to my mind there is no doubt that explaining lines in this subject can affect the worth of the State's property. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. We have already taken sides on this matter, and no doubt we will continue to do so during this council. I suggest, sir, a respectable president, that the case be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. when this one's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u102	Madam President. I have to admit, it's disappointing to be late for a decrease in bank tax, as we have to say. I am among those who have become deeply concerned about the competitiveness of the banking system here. We live in an environment where the basic growth on which our banking system rests is 31.74% higher than in our neighboring countries, at least. As shown in the White Book, there is an approximate difference in interest between banks. Another 2% higher, than what's going on and what happens or what happens best happens in comparable banks of similar size in the other North countries. Then I'm looking to a Norse Bank with the lowest interest in interest, but it's about the size of the economy. Of course, what you're wondering is that the bank tax is just a clear example of a direct taxation on bank customers, ourselves, and as a result, it could be called a tax rise to postponement of the reduction. But much more concerns, to the very extent, are decreasing the interest of banks, decreasing their competitiveness. In fact, their competitive prospects are constantly being followed, we can say, by the high cost level and the official appeals of this bank tax, as well as by the personal resources made to the banks. I wondered, " What will the Minister intend to do about this? ' In this situation, there will hardly be much more pleasure. We see that it is culminating in the interest of the banking system, which is becoming more and more difficult. We see that mortgages are moving more and more to pension funds, the banking system is by no means competitive about foreign loans to bigger Icelandic companies. [[The president calls.]] Where does it end?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u103	A respectable president. It is clear that the banks are in a different situation but lived a few years ago when they gave up quite a lot of rest and were reevaluating their holdings and paying off the government, e.g. A very large amount of money to make money. These times have changed very much. What we have to look after, I believe, except for the tax I put here to be reduced - and I hear that I am and am. A senator, though, agrees on the basics of this matter. A senator believes that we would have had to do this more quickly and faster - at least it is suggested that the matter be settled at the council and legalized. If circumstances were created to speed up the tax reduction, I would support that we did, but then we will not see that this is in harmony with other goals we have. But what can be done? It's, for example. to study in my Ministry today to examine the tax treatment of the balance sheet, i.e. how it will be handled when banks want to borrow slaving to build their own capital. It has led to a binding opinion from the head tax committee on the material I am considering, whether it prevents the banks from making the most practical use of the means of setting up their own capital. Then we have to look at the other factors that make up the risks, the financial resources, and the financial contributions at any given time, and ask: "Where is that set? These increases have been adjusted for the fact that we have recently been at the top of the economy, and then there will be an assessment point for a point or a loss for a loss of whether more oxygen needs to be allowed into the financial system by lowering those factors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u104	Madam President. Of course, I'm glad that the reduction is being legalized, although I believe that it would have to go forward more quickly and get started sooner than it is expected here. But the reason why I mention this is that we're looking at a 56%-6% interest in which customers of the Icelandic business banks compare if we compare ourselves with a bank of the same size, e.g. in the North. It's actually a centenarian tax, we can say. Much of the stress is due to the currency, but there are, of course, special budgets, both tax and financial requirements for the bank in this country compared to the rest of the North countries. However, the concern is that we have an international development in the banking system called financial technology, which is involved in banking systems and global banking services. Our banking system is by no means equipped to cope with any international competition on that basis. The only thing that is actually being done today could be described as some kind of protection from the Icelandic banking system, similar to that used for agriculture, through the kroner, i.e. The simple fact that it is difficult, even forbidden, to lend interest to individuals and smaller companies in foreign currency. I don't know how long we'll be able to live with that environment, and I don't even know if it will survive our long commitment to free flow of capital. But it is expected that if we do not act on the competitiveness of the Icelandic banking system, we may have to deal with major setbacks in its environment in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u105	A respectable president. I agree that the banks have to check their competitive environment and make sure that they are implementing the latest technologies and have the notes regarding the changes that are taking place in the competitive environment. They themselves must invest and transform into their business and organization in order to follow the changes they are making. With the interest difference, interest rates have been higher in this country. However, the growing dose has been shrinking, it has been contracting. I must draw attention to some of the growth rates in Iceland, in comparison with other countries, being made clear by a very different economy position. We can also mention in the relationship that if some of our neighbors were to enter an account, they would have a negative growth, in Sweden, Denmark. You'd have to pay to keep money in the bank. It's the other side of how low the loans are. The interest of loans in Iceland, e.g. in a facility market, we may never have been lower in history, so that in the end, we have been moving in the right direction. But that's the right tip for you. A senator, the competitive environment of the bank, is changing very much because of financial technology. It is important that the banks closely observe the trend and take advantage of the opportunities for change, but they do not remain behind and lose their place or place of business. This is one of the reasons why I believe it is unjust that the state has that much money in the financial system, probably more than 300 billion of its assets. It is better, then, for private people to take on this competition, and we move out of financial businesses to just think about the regulations, repairs, and uses the funds in another kind of structure in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u106	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. It's a familiar subject we know. It's about to lower the bank tax. The evidence has been that the banks are not competitive. I have remembered that not long ago, last winter, the bank manager of one of the bank's firms came to a financial committee, and I reviewed how difficult the situation was already in competitive surroundings and it would be absolutely necessary to reduce this tax. Then the bank manager quit and got 150 million. K. A retirement deal. So there is debate over how difficult the bank situation is and how this tax puts its chair at their door in that regard. But what may be of concern to me in this regard is that it is submitted here, and that it is done by reducing the cost of consumers. V.E.G. In his talk earlier, a minister said that this was the most clear tool to reduce interest. I have to ask the highest. Minister: What guarantee do we have that the banks will reduce the interest rate and decrease interest if this tax is reduced? Do we have any guarantee? I don't think we have a guarantee. That's why I ask: Isn't it normal to schedule this reduction, that it's not being carried out unless we can clearly see that the fee dropped on consumers? There's got to be some way out of it. We can't just hope that this will happen to turn down. If it is wishful thinking that the fees are down, it is natural to be dropping taxes, if that is the point of doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u107	A respectable president. It is in itself a question of whether we can agree on the laws that are to be addressed or on the forces involved. I know there's a few competitions in Iceland, but there can be an active competition in a few games markets, and if we can overwe can create some competition at this market, we can turn ourselves in to consumers in the country to reduce public curses. Can we get some guarantees? No, we cannot guarantee that, but it is a question of whether we believe it. If we don't believe that lower curses can affect the prices of the financial system, which is a measure of growth, this is a way to cover goods, we can start a discussion on how much we can put into business unless it is found in their terms. I would feel that we were getting into a very strange discussion because I have no faith in the fact that there are other laws in financial activities other than in other places. If there is a competition, it should appear in the price of goods or services, in prices reflecting the cost of service, and we are considering general market laws. I then return to the White Book on this subject, which shows how much this tax is out of harmony with the taxation of other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u108	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, although not very clear, is only a little bit blind to the ocean that we can trust the banks to reduce this fee if the bank tax goes down. I remind you that public trust in banking agencies is very small, understandable, after what has happened. Don't forget, though, Superintendent. Minister, in this discussion, the work environment of the bank is now in place, i.e. Bank service, changing very fast. The number and cost of workers within the banking system, the cost of banking, is thus reduced. New technology is coming, and we're already seeing it when we go to business banks that we have fewer workers and more ATMs, so there's a factor that's dropped the cost of banks. But it's all about this operation turning to consumers. That's what counts, and that makes me feel vague. There I feel that the government is looking for hopefully they'll come to lower those charges. I'm not convinced that it will. What's the government going to do and the Supreme Court? Ministers to do it after two, three years when he sees that he's already lowered his taxes to these companies, but the cost of the public has not been reduced? Is it not clear, then, that the basic criteria behind this operation did not last? I would have wanted to see, Mr. President, that this would be done so that there would be some kind of requirement for what could be set, some sort of accounting directive that if it is shown that there will be no reductions on the public in this country during that operation, it will be delayed or unattained. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u109	We will continue in this exchange. I've come up to the platform so often that I'm kind of confused about how many answers I've made. But we agree on that, me and what. A senator, that all this was important to consumers. We're doing this because we don't believe that the price of services and products in financial activities is not an issue for 8 billion tax laws. We just don't believe it. I would also like to remind you again of the reasons I used before or pointed out that having an environmental tax environment could have a direct bearing on the value of the government's property.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u110	Mr. President. I'm going to take a few words on this matter, which means a decrease in bank tax and I'm going to put it in political context, in context of the budget bill that will be discussed here all winter. I can see that this bank tax is a peculiar tax, and it's time for him to have his final point, to fall at some point down. However, I wondered, Mr. President, if this is the right priorities in view of the state's financial situation at this time. We can see that we have no longer experienced economic growth and that we have begun to experience contractions. It provides a number of aspects of the welfare system, and I think we should use this tax, at least for now, while the situation is. We see that the reduction in this tax cost about 8 billion dollars. when it's done. In four years this is 18 billion, and there are many things the government fund can do for 18 billion at that time. I think it's like a lot of things on the bill we're discussing today, and especially on its income side, peculiar priorities. I just want to put this in context of what we see in the other aspects of the budget and especially on the side of the payoff. As I've said repeatedly, we have to finance the fees we've been talking about, all classes, and the money has to come in somewhere. So I don't think we should accept this bill, I think the government fund could use this money for now, especially if we go over some of the elements that we can find in the budget itself. The budget bill that was discussed last week, and it will be discussed in detail at the legal committee, is still a special branchist for hospitals, nursing institutions, and schools. Were they really elected to represent the government class? The hospital is again in financial trouble. It is still heading for 4 billion dollars. ... tothisyear. Money items are actually reduced to high school from year to year. This is very clearly shown in the chart on page 22. 120 that there is a direct reduction to high school in terms of total pay, and it is very difficult to see a mass - education application in such matters. The money money at the university with the LIN is reduced from year to year and is justified in the bill by being overcrowded. But I wondered, Mr. President, if it wouldn't be okay to allow the group of paint to keep the money that had been decided to put in it, for the need really is there. To this decision, as we are reducing the total financial resources at the university, at that level of topic, we must be removing from the government's promise to achieve the same proportion of funds to the university level as other OECD countries do on the other hand. The board of directors, I looked at him this morning, made it very clear that the college level funding should be comparable to what other OECD countries represent at the university level. We do not fulfill that promise. A cent continues to be decommissioned, and if you consider some of the microchip elements, contributions to the right of the disabled are directly reduced in the bill. The increase to the elderly is mainly due to an increase in this group, and there is no special injection for this group of people. Developmental cooperation funds are reduced, including On the contrary, the government is taking advantage of a lower national income to reduce contributions to development. There can't be any wide banks in there, Mr. President. Improvements in welfare, such as prolongation of birthworm by one month and a slight rise in child reforms - as I had noted earlier today are an increase in child reforms of 0.1% of funds - are mainly due to the actions of the labour market rather than the initiatives of the administration parties. THE financial resources added by a budget last year seem to be gone. We need to take a special look at this on the scene of the legal committee. Reservation services are reduced from year to year in the bill and must again be considered a strange priority for the administration classes. There's a drop in law enforcement between years, if we break it down. The environment is to be a huge priority for the government, and it is to its own opinion, but it puts about 2% of environmental budgets; 98% do not go into the environment, so you wonder how far the environment is on the agenda of this government. The reason I mention these factors and that I criticize here the financial bill we've been talking about last week is because I put it in the context of the fact that today we're being measured to lower the bank tax by 8 billion a year when the disability is under way. I'm pointing out that these 8 billion places can be found in a number of other assignments that the government and the nation have been calling for. Because money is often, normal, and therefore I do not realize this priorities of the government while the situation is the key element of the welfare system. I reiterate this bank tax wasn't supposed to be forever, it was supposed to be temporary, and it should be temporary. But I declare that I don't think this is the right time to turn it down in this way. I remember putting on the bank tax, he had two purposes, including those. to the revenues for the state fund that he has been, and I say that he is still a part of it for the acquisition of the state funds. But the other purpose of the bank tax was that it should meet the cost of the empire's collapse. Of course, the State, as well as the public and the businesses in the country, suffered huge expenses from the collapse of the bank, and perhaps it would be nice to recall the magnitude of the collapse of the bank. If we were to round up the bankruptcy of these three Icelandic banks, the third largest failure in American history would have been greater than Enron. I used to play with the up payment of Marshall aid, and if we put it in context of the bank crash, the losses caused by the expansive bank half of the Marshalls. Then I'm not talking about the Marshall aid that went from the United States to Iceland. I'm talking about all of the Marshalls in the United States to the whole of Europe that helped build Europe up after the devastating war of World War II. And to emphasize the high cost of this crash, the cost of the Icelandic crash is greater than any international assistance to Africa combined. The cost was high and landed on many sources, many foreign demands, but especially on the state funds and Icelandic companies. And why am I making this a subject? This is because it has shown that part of the reason we're lowering the bank tax is selling the banks. That's the big deal. I think we'll deal with that in the winter or whatever it will be, whether and then what way we're going to sell the banks, and I have to say, "Don't worry." Mr. President. It took only four years for a private banking system to drive down here. I've wondered if the public feels that now is the time to privatize the banks. I have doubts about that, and I think a lot of evidence is that the state keeps its property in both banks. We need at least... Take a good look at this. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance could handle it as the financial market is changing in this country, and it's also a limited market, and I think it really needs to look at experience here. I want to say something, too. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, to make sure that the decrease in bank tax returns to consumers in lower interest. This will become evident, but there must be a fundamental reason why we can accept this reduction. They once told me that the person who owns a bank in Iceland has Iceland, and I think the property problem may be enough in Iceland. So we need to think very carefully whether we can simply afford to reduce the bank tax while the projects are available in the welfare system. Similarly, we need to wonder if this is the right time, if we think of some future games, to sell the Icelandic government's share in Iceland banks and part of the Bank of Lands. No doubt that is one of the biggest issues this council will discuss in winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u111	A respectable president. There may be two main points that I would like to point out for this talk. On the one hand, the next year's financial bill is not affected by any loss in the bank tax. There is no decrease to the next year on the bank tax, and both the income and the payoff are totally uncontaminated by this case. There is no need to be picking up some of the financial provisions or other measures intended to achieve our overall survival goals next year in connection with this matter. However, it is true that total taxation is considerable on the financial system, and it is easy to think of some means of spending so much money. But the government's income is growing, it's growing, and I think it's much closer to asking if the 110 billion annual payoffs we're looking at on on the budget bill will be useful. Now all I'm talking about is the originals. Next year's budget is 110 billion higher on solid prices than it was 2017. If this talk is to say that it needs to be 118 billion higher, I think we need to go to a little deeper on how the money works and if it is sure that only by always raising the expenses we will achieve better goals. You see, I have doubts about that. I point out that despite this bill, we continue to expect more support for all the big welfare issues, health issues. We expect to be more effective in education in the country, and we can do both.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u112	Mr. President. Yes, I can make this very clear. While the Landsaholic is heading for 4 billion dollars. This year's pay has to be higher. During the course of high school, the rate of government spending has to be higher. While college gets less in this country than any other OECD and the North, the budget needs to be higher. While rehabilitation services have a decrease between years and the U.S.A. is still in their fixture, there is reason to have higher government spending and while micromees are not getting their fair dressbacks, including If you take a cent off against a crown, yes, you have to make it higher. According to that, we need to make more money. I have repeated in all my talks today, and I have suggested ways in which we can earn enough money to pay them for extra expenses. I know it has to be done. This needs to be met, and I've pointed out a number of ways, whether it's the capital tax, income-related capital tax, or added resource expenditure, and now the bank tax. That's exactly what I've been pointing to. Minister to meet the increased state expenses I'm calling for. I simply don't think it's a reasonable priority at this point--or after a year, 2021, it's right by the highest level. Minister, it's going to happen 2021 - the state's going to be lowering all taxes from the bank tax. That's about 8 billion when it's made up, that's 18 billion in four years. During our assignments, I simply don't think that we can afford to reduce this tax in the way it is done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u113	A respectable president. I'm thinking that we've had some growth, which is totally a factor in our ability to live up to it in a sustainable way. There was a need for more support in various support systems and larger public systems, such as health care. With supportive systems, I'm even refer to social security. You can't pretend you have to, from now on, just to add. It certainly doesn't work in my mind, to start adding even more than we've been doing. With regard to the land hospital, we, of the 110 billion I was pointing forward to the increase in straddling expenses since 2017, have placed 35% in medical affairs, and most of it has gone to the hospital. When government agencies are lax, we need to ask how they are involved. You can't just say: When it comes to health institutions, we need to improve people's tilting skills. The basic rule must be that government agencies, the land hospital, like everyone else, should remain within financial resources. That must be the principle. We've written down in the law what's to happen if they're going downhill. There should be a communication between the Agency and the Ministry and there will be some operations to put the Agency within financial resources. That's what I miss here at the council not being discussed again. I hope that a financial committee will approach the matter in a way that the National Hospital as well as other government agencies should remain within financial resources. If the council is going to send out the message that the Landspians can ignore funding, ignore financial laws, I am afraid that other federal institutions will want to overdo the same, and we will lose all the discipline to carry out the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-17-6.u114	Mr. President. I agree with the highest. Minister in this regard. According to the Constitution, a dollar from the state fund is not to be paid unless it is legal or financial. I was able to do it earlier today that, for example. the risk assessment for 2019 aims for 31 billion above budgeting. It's totally unacceptable, and I agree with the highest. Ministers here for the Commission and the legislature to return pies. But then we also have to accept the political responsibility to give financial support to institutions in line with the demands we set on the institutions, e.g. Hospital. We agree to the land hospital, knowing that he's going to go to a corner. It was this way, so to speak, that every year, we did it in the past when we relied on budgets, parties, and organizations that returned again, year after year, asking for more money or went beyond our authority, and that is unacceptable. If we don't trust ourselves to put more money in the Land Hospital, we should simply say so. Then we should even decide what the land hospital should not do. In this regard, we need to circumvent ourselves for growth. We need to accept the political responsibility because the funds are with us, the legislature, not at the Land Hospital, not at the highest level. Minister. But there is a big problem in Icelandic politics, and it's certainly not new that the institutions of this country need to respect the resources they receive, but we, the ones sitting here, also need to provide funds that are in accordance with the requirements of those institutions. A small example: What I'm afraid of last year is when men are tempted to resort to a so - called reserve. We saw that a travel minister did, and a so - called reserve was used to meet the predictable need for transportation. I think it's a development that the Minister completely agrees with us on a budget to be particularly careful. The reserve is certainly not intended to meet such points as a minister. [[The president calls.]] I think a moral minister, no matter where he comes from, will be very strong to take advantage of that extra money.
