ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-127.u1	A respectable president. This bill is designed to improve our education system, and this will lead to increased flexibility, increased career development, increased security, and we will see an increase in the number of teachers. I welcome the proposed changes. I think they're here to make things right. I want to thank you too. The Board of Education for all the work she's done and the changes that have been made in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-127.u2	Mr. President. There's a lot of good in this prime minister, and there's also been a great improvement in the treatment of the Committee. The undertone is extremely important. There is an increase in the security of the work environment and flexibility in the teacher environment. But after that, the matter needs to be better resolved. I believe there has been some evidence that there is an increased solidarity to be achieved. I don't think it's a good idea to take this important thing through the council in a bit of a disagreement, as the table actually shows. I think it would have been better to take the case back into the Ministry and do it better. This matter will always be made available, but it is worth testing solidarity with the teacher society and all the professionals involved in building up our better education systems. That's why I'm embarrassed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-127.u3	A respectable president. This is a good case, which hopefully will improve the flexibility and security of teachers - which, as we have seen, is controversial. There would have been much work to do to make more peace with him. We in the United States believe it hasn't been tried. The question is, Do we place laws and then make peace? Or do we seek reconciliation and then set laws? We in the United States believe that we should make peace and then make laws, and that's why we're sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-127.u4	I was relatively optimistic, despite everything, when we started this discussion tonight and believed that at least The suggestions of my section that led to making long - awaited matters - fine matters - good things, which were designed to increase the likelihood that we would reach our goals. The way the treatment of the majority of the objects was on that proposal and final result, discussion, and so forth, simply makes me unable to pay my vote to this bill. It could have been so much better and could have easily made a difference. I'm sorry. I'm gonna have to sit by on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-127.u5	A respectable president. I've come here twice, and I've recommended a bill to legalize the violations of the elderly's employment. We have presented evidence and have concluded that there is no doubt that this will result in an increase in cost. Now we have taken a huge step in a positive direction. We're putting our hands on this case and we've hidden it from the social minister. The cost, how he is involved - or if he is true and he is not, will be even bigger. I trust and believe that we are, in effect, reaping something similar, as we did at the same time each year when we combined to eliminate impairment because of strengthening the smallest of our brothers and sisters, and I think that this is a small step of justice in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-127.u6	A respectable president. This is an important matter in itself, i.e. We have a better understanding, perhaps a better perspective on the way the reformers can affect individual progress and, after some cases, the contribution or the survival of a government fund. I have to say, though, that I feel that the form of this case is faulty. In effect, some form of report is being requested. It makes me feel that you should just file a report request. Second, the question is, Could it be that stopping the reformers will not cost anything? The answer to that is just so obvious to me. Of course, even if I notice that this is an emphasis on assessing the overall impact, increasing activities, etc. [[The president calls.]] I don't trust myself to support the case, even though I believe it's a very important matter.
